Charleston shooting victim Sharonda Coleman-Singleton was mother, teacher, coach, minister - Post and Courier
Charleston shooting victim Sharonda Coleman-Singleton was mother, teacher, coach, minister - Post and Courier
























HOT TOPICS











Breaking News
Gov. Nikki Haley signs bill, Confederate flag to come down
×














Clear

90°














































Charleston shooting victim Sharonda Coleman-Singleton was mother, teacher, coach, minister











Weather

Forecast
Radar




Temperature90°(32°C)
Feels Like101°(38°C)
The heat index is currently above safe levels. Take precautions to avoid heat illness: drink water, avoid direct sunshine, and take frequent breaks if working outside.
Humidity62%
Winds1.1mph























Sections




News


Sports


Politics


Food


Entertainment


Features


Opinion


Obituaries


Classifieds


Subscribe


















Categories

Local
Crime
Business
Death Notices
Special Reports
Databases
Interactive Graphics



Latest News






Brett Gardner replaces injured Gordon on AL All-Star roster









Gov. Nikki Haley signs bill, Confederate flag to come down









Wetlands permit issued for Volvo’s future South Carolina car plant 




Additional Links

Brian Hicks
Frank Wooten
Homicides Map
Hurricane Guide
Traffic Cams
Emanuel AME Shooting
Walter Scott Shooting







Categories

Prep Zone
South Carolina
Clemson
Local Colleges
Minor Leagues
Outdoors
Golf
Auto Racing
National Sports



Latest News






Brett Gardner replaces injured Gordon on AL All-Star roster









Isaiah Battle taken by the Rams in NFL supplemental draft









July-August Best Bets




Additional Links

Gene Sapakoff
Recruiting News
Clemson Blog
South Carolina Blog
Pro Wrestling News
Sports Medicine







Categories

Legislature
State Government
Local Politics
State Politics
Federal Politics
Elections



Latest News






Gov. Nikki Haley signs bill, Confederate flag to come down









House scraps vote on Confederate flag in federal cemeteries









Overflowing GOP presidential field has Fox News in demand




Additional Links

Presidential Candidate Visits
Find your precinct
State Republicans
State Democrats
Congressional Voting Records
2014 General Election Results
Track political finances







Categories

Reviews
Openings
Recipes
Beverages
Seasonal Foods



Latest News






Heritage at Seabrook opens tonight









Magnolias appoints new executive chef









Breakfast cookbook will get you going with its variety of dishes




Additional Links

Charleston Eating Tour
Hanna Raskin Blog
#FirstBiteCHS
Dine Like a Charlestonian
Sum of its Parts
Restaurant health inspections







Categories

Music
Events Calendar
Television
Comics & Games
Visual Arts



Latest From Charleston Scene






Artist spotlight: Gino Castillo









Visual Arts: Leave your mark on Charleston’s art scene to help Redux Contemporary Art Center beat the heat









A reluctant stand-up performs at Theater 99; Playwright Festival returns




Additional Links

Photo Galleries
Beaches
Get Out
Theater







Categories

Health
Home & Garden
Arts
Faith
Books
Pets
Contests
Your Photos



Latest News






Heritage at Seabrook opens tonight









Reader photos: You showed us your ‘patriotic spirit,’ now show us ‘simplicity’









Magnolias appoints new executive chef




Additional Links

David Quick
Warren Peper
Health & Fitness Blog
Anniversaries & Births
Weddings & Engagements







Categories

Editorials
Letters
Commentary



Latest News



‘Seminal’ triumph: S.C. House finally furls Confederate flag






Appalling Social Security waste






Berlin G. Myers




Additional Links

Submit a letter






Search Obituaries




Classifieds
Marketplace
Jobs
Autos
Real Estate
Pets
Jobs (Mobile)
Place an Ad











				News
			














Share








Charleston shooting victim Sharonda Coleman-Singleton was mother, teacher, coach, minister



Jeff Hartsell

 Email
 Facebook
 @jeff_fromthepc



Jun 18 2015 1:34 pm
 Jun 19 11:24 am












        Sharonda Coleman-Singleton with her son Chris Singleton, a Charleston Southern baseball player, on his senior night during basketball season at Goose Creek High School. File





		Mother, teacher, coach, minister — Sharonda Coleman-Singleton did all of it, and with a smile and a style those who knew her will not soon forget.
	
		“She always had a smile on her face ... an awesome smile,” said one colleague at Goose Creek High School.
	
		“When she came to games, you knew she was there,” said Goose Creek Principal Jimmy Huskey. “She was going to be yelling and screaming for the Gators, and she loved Goose Creek High School.”
	





		Coleman-Singleton, 45, was one of nine people killed Wednesday night in the shooting at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston. She was a minister on staff at the historic church, a role she fulfilled on top of her duties as a speech pathologist and girls track and field coach at Goose Creek High.
	
		But the most important role she played was as the mother of three children, including her oldest, Charleston Southern sophomore baseball player Chris Singleton.
	
		“She loved baseball and loved Chris,” Goose Creek baseball coach Chris Pond said. “She loved everyone and always had a positive attitude about everything.”
	
		Coleman-Singleton ran track herself, at South Carolina State University, where she helped her team to a conference championship and earned a degree in speech pathology and audiology in 1991. A member of the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, she also earned a master’s degree from Montclair State in her native New Jersey.
	
		She worked in school districts in Georgia before joining the Berkeley County School District in 2007, working first at Stratford and for the last eight years at Goose Creek. She earned a reputation at the latter as a fierce advocate for her students.
	
		“She was a bulldog when it came to her kids,” an emotional Huskey said Thursday. “She cared about her kids. She was a true team player, but she always wanted more for her kids, and I admired her for that.”
	
		As the Gators’ track coach, Coleman-Singleton attended to more than her athletes’ technique and times.
	
		“It’s 95 degrees out there, and she’s with those girls every day,” Huskey said. “She taught those young ladies how to be better young ladies, and that can never be replaced.”
	
		Coleman-Singleton’s older son, Chris, was a two-sport star at Goose Creek, playing baseball and basketball. She called him “Lil Chris” and sat proudly by his side on the day he signed a letter of intent to play baseball at Charleston Southern.
	
		On Chris’ senior night during basketball season, Coleman-Singleton carried a single yellow rose in her left hand, her right arm through her son’s. She was smiling.
	
		“She was a wonderful parent, very involved,” said former Goose Creek athletic director Chuck Reedy. “She was one of those people a lot of people looked up to and tried to emulate.”
	
		Her son Chris posted this Thursday on Instagram:
	
		“You were a better mother than I could have ever asked for. This has truly broken my heart in every way possible.”
	
Jeff Hartsell




Keywords






Get more news delivered to your inbox:
Register  Manage Newsletters
















 Enlarge Sharonda Coleman-Singleton (seated, at right), with son Chris as he signs to play baseball at Charleston Southern University. Former Goose Creek Athletic Director Chuck Reedy (left) and Principal Jimmy Huskey stand behind the pair. Rob Gantt/Goose Creek Gazette




Sharonda Coleman-Singleton (seated, at right), with son Chris as he signs to play baseball at Charleston Southern University. Former Goose Creek Athletic Director Chuck Reedy (left) and Principal Jimmy Huskey stand behind the pair.
×




Comments

Notice about comments:
The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.
We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions.













Most Popular


NTSB working to preserve evidence, determine what went wrong in Berkeley County crash

‘New day in South Carolina’: House votes to take down Confederate flag

Stocks lose more than 1% on day of New York Stock Exchange outage

Windjammer in Isle of Palms safe after reported bomb threat

United Airlines computer glitch not believed to be linked to NYSE outage







Events Calendar


































© 2015, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company. All Rights Reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of Terms of Use, Parental Consent Form, and Privacy Policy.




About

About
Staff
Mobile apps



Services

Newsletters
Become a member
Place an ad
Advertising rates
Advertising account



Site Links



Editorial
Classifieds
RSS Feeds





Related Properties



Aiken Standard - Aiken, SC
South Strand News - Georgetown, Pawleys Island, & Murrells Inlet, SC
The Gazette - Goose Creek, SC
The News - Kingstree, SC




The Berkeley Independent - Moncks Corner, SC
Moultrie News - Mount Pleasant, SC
The Star - North Augusta, SC
Journal Scene - Summerville, SC
Evening Post Books - Charleston, SC
























Sections

News
Sports
Business
Politics
Food
Entertainment
Features
Opinion
Obituaries
Spoleto


Other Sites
Lowcountry Parent
My Charleston
North Charleston Magazine
Real Estate
Tideline Magazine
Your Faith
CharlestonSCBrides.com
Special Sections


Classifieds
Classifieds
Marketplace
Jobs
Autos
Real Estate
Pets


Advertising
Place an Ad
Advertising Rates
Sponsored Content






Login with Press+


Member Rewards
Become a member

Your rewards


Customer Care
Subscribe
Manage your subscription
Access E-edition
Archives
Order magazines
Email Newsletters
Manage Newsletters
Contact Us
Mobile Apps

















