Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine | myfox8.com 
Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 5:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

94°







94°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine

Posted 6:15 pm, June 18, 2015, by Kim Wynne 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





KING’S MOUNTAIN, N.C. – The quick-thinking of one North Carolina woman helped police catch a man accused of killing nine people at a South Carolina church.
Debbie Dills got a bad feeling when she was driving into work Thursday morning.
Just after 10 a.m., something caught her eye as she was driving on Highway 74 near Shelby.
“I saw the back of his head,” Dills said. “And I saw that bowl cut, that hair.”
She called her boss at Frady’s Florist in Kings Mountain, about 15 miles outside Shelby.
“I think that I have just passed the car the boy was driving that killed the people in Charleston,” Dills remembered telling her boss.
Around 10:45 a.m., Shelby police caught and arrested 21-year-old Dylann Roof, accused of shooting and killing nine people at a Charleston church during Bible study Wednesday night.
“Once we got him in custody, we brought him here,” said Shelby Police Chief Jeff Ledford. “We notified Charleston to let them know we had their suspect.”
Dills said she had been thinking of the nine victims when she decided to call her boss and notify police.
“They were studying His word,” Dills said. “That’s what they were there to do and they lost their life doing that.”
“They can never come back,” Dills said. “But those families can find some kind of solace, some kind of peace and some kind of comfort in knowing that the young man is caught.”
Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten identified the nine shooting victims as follows: Cynthia Hurd, 54; Susie Jackson, 87; Ethel Lance, 70; Rev. DePayne Middleton-Doctor, 49; Hon. Rev. Clementa Pinckney, 41; Tywanza Sanders, 26; Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., 74; Rev. Sharonda Singleton, 45; Myra Thompson, 59.

35.245134
-81.341194




Filed in: News Topics: South Carolina church shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



F-16 jet, Cessna plane collide near Charleston, SC; 2 dead



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Government data breach impacted 21.5 million



SC governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag



NC man visiting New Jersey could face prison time after police find handgun in car



Body found during fire investigation in Winston-Salem





 












News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


News

GoFundMe page for sister of accused Charleston church shooter taken down


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting



 


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Charleston shooting: 9 killed in ‘hate crime’ shooting at church


News

Dashcam video shows arrest of Charleston church shooter in Shelby


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?



 


News

Wedding canceled, sister of accused Charleston shooter asks for donations


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,420 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















