$225K raised in wake of Charleston church shooting | FOX2now.com 
$225K raised in wake of Charleston church shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News 11 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







$225K raised in wake of Charleston church shooting

Posted 6:48 am, June 23, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 




 
A police officer removes crime scene tape near a memorial in front of Emanuel African American Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina on June 20, 2015. 


×
$225K raised in wake of Charleston church shooting


 A police officer removes crime scene tape near a memorial in front of Emanuel African American Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina on June 20, 2015.


Charleston, SC (WHNS) — More than $225,000 has been donated to the funds created in the wake of the Charleston church shooting, city officials announced on Monday.
As of 9 a.m., the Mother Emanuel Hope Fund raised $176,049 and the Reverend Pinckney Fund raised $49,700.
Mayor Joseph Riley announced the creation of the Mother Emanuel Hope Fund at a news conference the day after the shooting. He said money donated to the fund will be used to help the families of the victims.
Officials said donations can be made by texting ‘prayforcharleston’ to 843-606-5995 or visiting www.bidr.co/prayforcharleston
Donations can also be made at any Wells Fargo branch or mailed to the following address:
Mother Emanuel Hope Fund
c/o City of Charleston
P.O. Box 304
Charleston, SC 29402.
City officials also announced the creation of the Reverend Pinckney Fund following the tragedy.
State Sen. Clementa Pinckney was one of nine people killed when police said a man, later identified as 21-year-old Dylann Roof, opened fire inside Emanuel AME Church during a prayer meeting.
According to city officials, all donations to the Pinckney fund will be used support church initiatives, and “vulnerable populations and youth projects that Reverend Pinckney was so passionate about.”
Donations can be made to the Reverend Pinckney Fund by visiting www.palmettoproject.org or sending checks to this address:
Lowcountry Ministries – Reverend Pinckney Fund
c/o The Palmetto Project
6296 Rivers Avenue #100
North Charleston, SC 29406
By Joseph Pereira

32.776475
-79.931051




Filed in: News 













 






Events Calendar
See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Person killed in car accident in Festus, state police says



DAVE MURRAYS LATEST FORECAST AND DISCO…FRIDAY…JULY 10, 2015



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime


News

DOJ launches hate crime investigation into Charleston church shooting


News

﻿Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


News

Charleston shooting suspect charged with 9 counts of murder


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community



 


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Dylann Storm Roof arrested in North Carolina, according to report


News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


News

Charleston victim funerals begin, as Confederate flag falls in other states



 


News

A pastor who first heard the call at 13 — one of Charleston’s nine victims


News

Charleston church shooting: Suspect confesses, says he sought race war


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















