Winston-Salem man’s cousin killed in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com 
Winston-Salem man’s cousin killed in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 5:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

94°







94°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Winston-Salem man’s cousin killed in Charleston church shooting

Posted 9:31 am, June 19, 2015, by Winston-Salem Journal 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Ward Miller is the cousin of Rev. Daniel Simmons who was killed in the recent Charleston church shooting. Miller says of his family, "Being people of faith, we forgive this young man."  (Bruce Chapman/Journal) 


×
Winston-Salem man’s cousin killed in Charleston church shooting


 Ward Miller is the cousin of Rev. Daniel Simmons who was killed in the recent Charleston church shooting. Miller says of his family, "Being people of faith, we forgive this young man."  (Bruce Chapman/Journal)


WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — The cousin of a minister who was among the nine people killed Wednesday in Charleston, S.C., says his family is devastated by the death.
Ward Miller of Winston-Salem said he learned about the death of his cousin, the Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., at 5 a.m. Thursday. Simmons, 74, was the associate minister at Emmanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, Miller said.
“We were like brothers,” Miller said of Simmons. “We were very close. This massacre will be part of my family’s life forever.”
Read more: Winston-Salem Journal

36.099860
-80.244216




Filed in: News Topics: Charleston 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



F-16 jet, Cessna plane collide near Charleston, SC; 2 dead



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Government data breach impacted 21.5 million



SC governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag



NC man visiting New Jersey could face prison time after police find handgun in car



Body found during fire investigation in Winston-Salem





 












News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’



 


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Walter Scott, shot in the back after police stop, is laid to rest


News

SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre


News

New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded



 


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,420 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















