Dozens gather at Bethel A.M.E. in Greensboro to remember victims of Charleston shooting | myfox8.com 
Dozens gather at Bethel A.M.E. in Greensboro to remember victims of Charleston shooting | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 5:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

94°







94°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Dozens gather at Bethel A.M.E. in Greensboro to remember victims of Charleston shooting

Posted 6:17 am, June 19, 2015, by Chad Tucker 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





GREENSBORO, N.C. — Dozens of people filled Bethel A.M.E. Church including people with close ties to the historic Charleston church, for a community vigil to remember the victims of the shooting.   
“We would walk to the church,” said Mozell Weston who grew up in Emanuel A.M.E and returned last summer for a family reunion.  “Going back home it reminds me of my foundation, where I sang in the choir, seeing my Sunday school teacher.”
Weston knows the family of the victims and said the pain of Wednesday night is being comforted by the community. 
 “Joy to know that you are not in this by yourself,” she said.  “It’s going to be a period time of healing for all of us and this is just the beginning of the journey.”
Weston said she is searching for understanding; not just for the families who lost loved ones but also for the alleged shooter Dylann Roof, that maybe some sense will be made of the events so it won’t happen again. 

36.072635
-79.791975



Related stories

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community
Church security a consideration after deadly South Carolina shooting
Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine




Filed in: News Topics: Charleston 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



F-16 jet, Cessna plane collide near Charleston, SC; 2 dead



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Government data breach impacted 21.5 million



SC governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag



NC man visiting New Jersey could face prison time after police find handgun in car



Body found during fire investigation in Winston-Salem





 












News

Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims


News

Winston-Salem man’s cousin killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded



 


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston pastor and state senator, Clementa Pinckney, remembered for seeking justice


News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting



 


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,420 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















