FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof | Fox 59 
FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News Live at Five 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof

Posted 8:54 AM, June 18, 2015, by CNN Wire and Tribune Media Wire 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 


Dylann Storm Roof, 21
CHARLESTON, S.C. — He’s white, slightly built and in his early 20s — and police say he walked into a Charleston, South Carolina, church and fatally shot nine people as they attended Bible study class.
Dylann Storm Roof, 21, is now at the center of a major manhunt, according to the The Post and Courier.
Police released a flier Thursday morning with details of the suspect in the attack on the historic African-American church as they appealed for help to track him down as quickly as possible.
According to reports, Roof is currently out on bond in connection with multiple recent arrests on drug and trespassing charges.
“The following subject is wanted for the shooting that occured in Charleston at the Emanuel AME Church. Subject is Dylann Storm Roof w/m 4/3/1994 5’9″ 120 lbs. The subject should be driving a 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS, SC registration LGF330. The vehicle is dark-colored. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous and caution should be used if seen. “
Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen told a news conference that officers “have obtained surveillance videos of the suspect in this case and a suspect vehicle.”
Mullen said the suspect was a “younger white male between 21 and 25 years of age, 5-foot-9 in height” and “has a very distinctive sweatshirt that has markings.”
Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.
Mullen emphasized the suspect is “a very dangerous individual” and said “he should not be approached by anyone.”
Any people who recognize the suspect or spots the vehicle should alert law enforcement, he said, rather than trying to follow themselves.
According to The Post and Courier, Roof is currently out on bond in connection with multiple recent arrests on drug and trespassing charges.
Woman spared by shooter to give account?
A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.
Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night. Scott added that she didn’t know if the survivor had ended up at the hospital or being questioned by police.
Because of the church’s historic significance, it is not unusual for visitors, whether white or black, to visit it, Scott said. She said she’d had no indication that any children were among the victims.
Mullen told the news conference the suspect had been in the church attending a meeting that was going on — and “stayed there almost an hour with the group before the actual event.”
But he declined to comment on whether the suspect had let one woman escape.
Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.
‘Distinctive’ license plate
The suspect was seen leaving the church in a black four-door sedan, the flier says. “The vehicle you will see has a very distinctive front license plate,” Mullen added.
He appealed for the media to help in circulating the suspect’s image and for the public to be vigilant. The clean-shaven man pictured wears a gray sweatshirt over a white T-shirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.
“No one in this community will ever forget this night and as a result of this and because of the pain and the hurt this individual has caused this entire community, the law enforcement agents are committed and we will catch this individual,” Mullen said.
Charleston Mayor Joe Riley echoed that sentiment, saying everything must be done to find a culprit he described as “somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”
The man is a “no-good, horrible person” who must be taken into custody as soon as possible, he said. “Of course we will make sure he pays the price for this horrible act.”
Wednesday night’s attack at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is being investigated as a hate crime. All the victims, who include the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, were black. Six of those killed were female and three male.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder


National & World News

Charleston shooting victims’ names released


National & World News

Woman who helped police catch Charleston church shooting suspect credits divine intervention


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice,’ bond set at $1 million



 


Crimetracker News

Family of Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof speaks for the first time


National & World News

Dash cam video shows Charleston shooting suspect’s arrest in North Carolina


News

Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


National & World News

Dylann Roof’s family: We’ll answer questions later


National & World News What's Trending

Sister of alleged Charleston shooter starts GoFundMe campaign to pay for ‘dream honeymoon’



 


National & World News

Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime


National & World News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


National & World News

South Carolina House votes to remove Confederate flag from state house grounds






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















