
Charleston shooting: Dylann Roof's alleged killing of nine worshippers in a black church has left the city – and nation – in shock - Americas - World - The Independent


Charleston shooting: Dylann Roof's alleged killing of nine worshippers in a black church has left the city – and nation – in shock - Americas - World - The Independent
















































Thursday 09 July 2015















Apps 




eBooks 




i Jobs 




Dating 




Shop 



































News 



UK 





Home News 




UK Politics 




Scottish independence 




Crime 




Weird News 







World 





Europe 




Americas 




Middle East 




Asia 




Africa 




Australasia 




World Politics 




World History 




Novaya Gazeta (English) 






WW1 Moments 







Business 





Business News 




Business Comment 




Business Analysis & Features 




Sharewatch 




SME 




Market News 




Market Epic 




Market Heatmaps 




Market Screener 






Business Directory 




ES Business Connections 




Create a business profile 







People 




Science 




Environment 





Climate Change 




Green Living 




Nature 







Media 





Opinion 




TV & Radio 




Press 




Online 




Advertising 







Technology 




Education 





News 




Schools 




Further 




Higher 




Primary Tables 2011 




Secondary Tables 2012 




Training & Courses 




MBA & Executive 







Images 




Obituaries 




Diary 




Corrections 




Newsletter 




Appeals 






Video 





People 





Voices 





Sport 



Tech 





Life 





Property 





Arts + Ents 





Travel 





Money 





IndyBest 





Student 



Offers 







July 7 bombings
Greece Crisis
Labour leadership
George Osborne
Greece
Michael Gove









News 
>
World 
>
Americas 







Charleston shooting: Dylann Roof's alleged killing of nine worshippers in a black church has left the city – and nation – in shock











 









'This doesn’t happen in other places' President Obama tells a country already battered by months of renewed racial unease and protests





 
David Usborne




 





David Usborne


David Usborne is US Editor of The Independent.





More articles from this journalist




Follow David Usborne









Charleston, South Carolina




Thursday 18 June 2015















Print

 









Your friend's email address 





Your email address 











Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our Legal Terms & Policies




A
A
A


Email










The killer, a young white man with slim features and a pudding-basin haircut, bided his time. Then one hour into the weekly Bible study group at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, he stood up and announced: “I have to do it, you have to go.” And he started to shoot.




Branded a hate crime by local and federal officials, the quick and apparently methodical act of slaughter left nine people dead, including the church’s pastor, the Rev Clementa Pinckney, who was also a Democrat member of the South Carolina Senate. It sent shock waves across America, a nation already battered by months of renewed racial unease and protests.


Dylann Roof, the man detained by police in the aftermath of the shooting in Charleston, South Carolina, is described as somebody who was quiet and who mainly kept to himself (AP)

For Charleston, the massacre was too much to comprehend. The graceful streets in its historic centre were not just in mourning but in shock. There was momentary relief, however, as word came at around noon that the suspect, identified earlier as Dylann Roof, had been arrested at a traffic stop in neighbouring North Carolina. It has emerged that he had been given a gun for his 21st birthday, in April.“It doesn’t happen in other places,” said Barack Obama, addressing the nation. “At some point we as a country will have to reconcile the fact that these types of mass violence don’t happen in other advanced countries. It is in our power to do something about it. I say that recognising the politics in this town.”Mr Obama acknowledged that the fact the attack was on a black church “raises questions” about the motive for the shooting, saying he knew several members of the church community, including the Rev Pinckney. “It is not the first time a black church has been attacked,” he added, recalling darker moments in American history. 
In pictures: Charleston vigil
 For Charleston, there is no guessing how and how quickly a horror of this scale can be absorbed. “This is an unfathomable and unspeakable act by somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind,” Charleston Mayor Joe Riley said. Of the nine killed, six were male and three female. All but one died at the scene.Read more: Suspect caught by police in North CarolinaUncle was worried about the man suspected of massacrePresident Obama addresses nation over Charleston shootingPresidential hopefuls respond to the hate crimeFive-year-old child 'played dead' to surviveProfile: Charleston shooting suspect Dylann Storm RoofThe victims were named as Cynthia Hurd, 54, Susie Jackson, 87, Ethel Lance, 70, the Rev DePayne Middleton-Doctor, 49, Mr Pinckney, 41, Tywanza Sanders, 26, the Rev Daniel Simmons Sr, 74, the Rev Sharonda Singleton, 45, and Myra Thompson, 59.Berkeley county government tweeted that Ms Singleton was “a reverend, track coach at Goose Creek High, speech therapist & incredible mother”.“I’m heartbroken,” said Shona Holmes, 28, a bystander at the aftermath of the shooting. “It’s just hurtful to think that someone would come in and shoot people in a church. If you’re not safe in church, where are you safe?”Police revealed that the suspect, Mr Roof, had previously been arrested on 26 April for alleged trespassing and had a drug case pending against him. They had earlier distributed a mugshot, showing his distinctive haircut, as well as security camera images of him at the church and of the car he sped away in. Greg Mullin, the city police chief, had earlier called for an “all-hands-on-deck” effort to hunt down the suspect, speculating that he may have remained in the vicinity.


Clementa Pinckney, 41, the pastor killed in Wednesday’s shootings, was a rising star in South Carolina politics (EPA)

Local officials confirmed the US Department of Justice had already joined the investigation, a further indication that it was being treated as a hate crime with racist motives. The suspect’s arrest was first announced by US Attorney General Loretta Lynch in Washington DC. Officials said Mr Roof had been pulled over in Shelby, North Carolina.The scene at the Bible class, held each Wednesday in the church basement, was described by Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the pastor, who said she heard it from one of only three survivors.“I have to do it,” the killer reportedly proclaimed. “You rape our women and you’re taking over the country. You have to go.” The same survivor said he reloaded his gun five times as he killed the victims. An official from the NAACP, a African American rights group, said he had told one woman he would spare her so she would tell the world what he had done and why.Officials are holding back before revealing the identities of the victims at least until all the families had been notified. However, Todd Rutherford, a state legislator, told the Associated Press that the Emanuel AME Church’s pastor, Mr Pinckney, 41, was among those killed.A star of the state Democratic Party who was first elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives when he was just 23, he was married with two children. “He never had anything bad to say about anybody, even when I thought he should,” Mr Rutherford said. “He was always out doing work either for his parishioners or his constituents. He touched everybody.”


A visitor contemplates floral tributes close to the church where a white man shot dead nine black people at a Bible study class (AP)

“This tragedy that we are addressing right now is indescribable,” Chief Mullen said at an early morning press conference. “We are committed to do whatever is necessary to bring this individual to justice.”Since last August with the killing of Michael Brown, 18, by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, the US has seen tensions flare repeatedly, especially with respect to the treatment of black people by the police. Multiple cities have seen protests and occasional flashes of street violence, including Baltimore earlier this spring after the death in custody of Freddie Gray.Charleston had its turn with the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man, Walter Scott, by a white police officer. That incident too set off angry protests. The police officer has since been charged with murder.


A man believed to be Dylann Roof seen in a CCTV image before the shooting (Reuters)

But there are resonances of black-white struggle that stretch far further back in the city’s history. The Emanuel AME Church, which has boasted one of the biggest and most vibrant black congregations in the American South, was founded in 1816 when black parishioners split from the Episcopalians over a burial dispute. One of its founders, Denmark Vesey, was behind a failed slave revolt in 1822. When local white landowners found out, they burned the church to the ground.“Of all cities, in Charleston, to have a horrible hateful person go into the church and kill people, there to pray and worship with each other, is something that is beyond any comprehension and is not explained,” Mayor Riley said. “We are going to put our arms around that church and that church family.”Cornell William Brooks, head of the NAACP, said: “There is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people engaged in the study of scripture.”


Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen, left, with Mayor Joe Riley held a press conference to discuss the killings (EPA)

Jeb Bush, the Republican presidential contender, cancelled an appearance he had planned for Charleston. Several other candidates for 2016 issued statements condemning the killings.Difficult to calculate is the anger it will instill in the black community not just here but across the country. South Carolina, where the Civil War began, shares all of the history of the Deep South, from slave-owning to the civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s and, of course, the terror that the KKK once instilled.“I am very tired of people telling me that I don’t have the right to be angry,” Christopher Cason, a community organiser here, insisted. “I am very angry right now.”























World News in Pictures






Enter URL:



Enter URL:


















News







Tube driver's letter that may change your mind on this week's walkout





news








News







The charts that reveal the cushy life of Tube drivers





news








News







How will the Budget's tax changes affect you? Use our calculator to find out





budget








Life and Style







Ahead of its time? US sales of Apple Watch crash by 90 per cent





tech


















ebooks







The Independent Guide to the UK Constitution





ebooksAn introduction to the ground rules of British democracy










News







'I was gang-raped 20 years ago. Here's why I'm only just speaking out about it'





news








Arts and Entertainment







The films that show just how racially-biased Hollywood really is





film








Arts and Entertainment







Rylance: Subsidised National and RSC charge 'way too much for tickets'





theatre








Life and Style







'I'm not greedy, confused, or seeking attention: I'm bisexual'





love + sex








Life and Style







How to hide boring friends on Facebook





tech








Arts and Entertainment







Ant-Man: 'A midget Marvel movie that can't compare with its rivals'





film review










Sport







England take the advantage on day two with five Aussie wickets





ashes 2015








News







Davina McCall: I won't leave any money to my kids – I plan on spending it while I can





people








Sport







Sterling calls in 'sick' again amid interest from Manchester City





football








News







Princess Charlotte completes publicity tour in christening photos





people








Life and Style







Do 3D films really make you dizzy - or is it just your imagination?





tech




































Please provide search keyword(s)












Advanced search 




Article archive 




Topics 




























Most Shared



Most Viewed



Most Commented







1





Watch this DJ troll an entire crowd with a fake bass drop



2





Budget 2015: Maintenance grants for poorer students 'to be scrapped' in next round of cuts



3





iOS 9 to have special photo albums for screenshots and selfies



4





Greece debt crisis: Australian businessman promises to give money to distraught pensionerater photgraph goes viral



5





Budget 2015: A shameless, unmitigated attack on the poor, the young and families







  





 


Kawasaki disease: an unknown illness with no definitive medical diagnosis and no known cause – but it may all be in the wind





 


Budget 2015: Maintenance grants for poorer students 'to be scrapped' in next round of cuts





 


Greece debt crisis: Athens blinks first as Alexis Tsipras promises to 'immediately implement' reforms – in return for loan from bailout fund





 


Budget 2015: Tax credits and housing benefit to be cut for families with more than two children





 


Budget 2015: Watch Iain Duncan Smith perform the double fist pump that made him even more enemies








 











More Britons believe that multiculturalism makes the country worse - not better, says poll	


Louis Doré









Osborne to cap family benefits at £23,000 – announced ahead of his post-election Budget	


Andrew Grice









Greece debt crisis: Angela Merkel and Francois Hollande issue Athens with 24-hour ultimatum to avoid crashing out of the euro	


Leo Cendrowicz, Ben Chu









Greece crisis: Referendum exposes a gaping hole at the heart of the European Union – its lack of genuine legitimacy	


Rupert Cornwell









'But you get paid loads!' and other misconceptions about London's striking Tube drivers	


Finn Brennan









After the London bombings on 7 July I became a 'British Muslim' - suddenly my religious identity took centre stage	


Sabbiyah Pervez






































independent images







Astronomy Photographer 2015






Running of the Bulls in Pamplona






Anti-austerity protest in London






7/7 bombings anniversary






World Bodypainting Festival 2015






Greek referendum






World news in pictures






UK news in pictures






Arts + Ents news in pictures 






Sport news in pictures





< Previous
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Next >























SPONSORED FEATURES




























































Independent Dating

 

Show Me

Women
Men

 
Between:
 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60+  and   
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60+  

Location:  -- Select -- Avon Bedfordshire Berkshire Borders Buckinghamshire Cambridgeshire Central Cheshire Cleveland Clwyd Cornwall County Antrim County Armagh County Down County Durham County Fermanagh County Londonderry County Tyrone Cumbria Derbyshire Devon Dorset Dumfries and Galloway Dyfed East Sussex Essex Fife Gloucester Grampian Greater Manchester Guernsey Gwent Gwynedd Hampshire Hereford and Worcester Hertfordshire Highlands Humberside Isle of Man Isle of Wight Jersey Kent Lancashire Leicestershire Lincolnshire London Lothian Merseyside Mid Glamorgan Norfolk North Yorkshire Northamptonshire Northumberland Nottinghamshire Orkney Oxfordshire Powys Sark Shetland Shropshire Somerset South Glamorgan South Yorkshire Staffordshire Strathclyde Suffolk Surrey Tayside Tyne and Wear Warwickshire West Glamorgan West Midlands West Sussex West Yorkshire Western Isles Wiltshire  

By clicking 'Search' you  are agreeing to our Terms of Use.
  
 












iJobs General



Recruitment Genius: Orthodontic Clinic Receptionist

£20000 per annum:
Recruitment Genius:
A fantastic opportunity has arisen for a...


Recruitment Genius: IS Manager - ERP

£40000 - £50000 per annum:
Recruitment Genius:
My client are looking to recrui...


Recruitment Genius: Negotiator / Energy Procurement

Negotiable:
Recruitment Genius:
This leading Energy Advisory Company has an ex...


Recruitment Genius: Quality Manager

£28000 - £38000 per annum:
Recruitment Genius:
This is an exciting opportunity...





View the latest from iJobs









Day In a Page





Sun
Mon
Tue
Wed
Thu
Fri
Sat





1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31


January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December


1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015

Go









 













Uniformed thugs await war-weary Arab migrants arriving at Europe's doorstep Those fleeing death and war face assaults and beatings from thuggish guards, says Robert Fisk 






France gets tough with sexual harassment on public transport Behaviour once seen as harmless, such as salacious remarks, is now punishable with a fine 






20 years after the genocide The Dutch peacekeepers still haunted by ghosts of Srebrenica 






Lies, damned lies and the internet Websites can harvest our clicks for profit by posting ‘fake news’ (outrageous lies) then claiming satire’s legal protections. Debunk them or lose your grip on reality, says Rhodri Marsden 






Slow and hard The mating habits of tortoises are under the spotlight thanks to a pair of randy reptiles 








10 best watering cans Keep the garden and greenhouse looking blooming lovely this summer. Green-fingered experts give us their pick of the kit 






Has international opinion turned against Israel? In the final part of our series marking a year since the war in Gaza, Alistair Dawber examines the global response to the Jewish state's policies on settlements and blockade 






Revealed: the true level of British secret germ and chemical warfare trials Thousands not hundreds of people were subjected to Cold War tests, says professor 






Reality TV? Vernon, the US city with a tainted past, comes to life in crime drama True Detective 






Kawasaki disease An unknown illness with no definitive medical diagnosis and no known cause - but it may all be in the wind 








Best of Brittas The greatest sitcom ever to be set in a leisure centre is rumoured to be returning to TV. But can its knockabout charm still raise a laugh? 






Haute Couture Paris John Galliano, Jean Paul Gaultier and a tale of two distinct signatures 






Good news for Ophidiophobics Snakes are out but there's nothing to fear 






Belt up: 13 best children’s car seats Keep kids from babies to pre-teens safe and comfortable in the back 






Nick Bollettieri's Wimbledon Files To beat Serena in the battle of the grunters Maria needs to hit homers from the off 
































Terms & Policies 



Privacy Policy 



Cookie policy 



Code of Conduct 



Complaint form 



Email newsletters 



RSS 



Live Blogs 



About i100 







Contact Us 



Subscriptions 



Apps 



Work for us 



Evening Standard 



Homes & Property 



iJobs 



News video 



Sport video 







Advertising Guide 



Syndication 



Novaya Gazeta (English) 



ES Business Connections 



ES Rentals 



London Live 




© independent.co.uk





























Please provide search keyword(s)












Advanced search 




Article archive 




Topics 









































