Charleston shooting: suspect Dylann Roof 'in custody' after church murder of nine - as it happened - Telegraph
Charleston shooting: suspect Dylann Roof 'in custody' after church murder of nine - as it happened - Telegraph
























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Thursday 09 July 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
North America»
USA











Charleston shooting: suspect Dylann Roof 'in custody' after church murder of nine - as it happened

Follow live updates as South Carolina police investigate "hate crime" 
  after white gunman opened fire at historic African-American church

















Charleston shooting suspect Dylann Storm Roof is escorted from the Sheby Police Department in Shelby Photo: AP/Chuck Burton









 



							By David Lawler, Raziye Akkoc, Andrew Marszal and Jessica Winch

8:00AM BST 18 Jun 2015
 


 • 'You rape our women and are taking over our country,' gunman told black victims  • Charleston church shooting: what we know so far  • Dylan Roof: Profile of Charleston church shooting suspect  • Charleston shooting earlier today as it happened June 18  • Gunman kills nine people at Charleston church: 3 men, 6 women • Clementa Pinckney, state senator, and sister among 9 victims named  Latest  08.00  This live blog will now close, but for the latest developments in this story please visit our morning wrap: Charleston shooting: Dylann Roof flown back to South Carolina to face charges  06.13  The suspect's roommate says he had been planning an attack for 6 months and wanted to spark a civil war.  Dalton Tyler, the roommate, described Roof as a committed segregationist who had been "planning something like that for six months".  "He was big into segregation and other stuff," Mr Tyler told ABC News. "He said he wanted to start a civil war. He said he was going to do something like that and then kill himself."  Roof is now in custody, and will appear in court at 2PM local time Friday.  05.06  Raf Sanchez has filed a profile on Roof, "a boyish face but hate in his heart". Read it in full here.  A full day after he allegedly slaughtered nine worshippers in a historic black church in Charleston, detectives are still trying to understand Roof's life and what might have led him to murder.   While his white supremacist views were in the open - he talked about starting a new civil war and posed with the symbols of apartheid South Africa - no one seems to have taken him seriously or predicted he would kill.    Photo:AP  02.46  Next up for Dylann Roof is a bond hearing, scheduled for 2PM on Friday at a courthouse in Charleston. Our own Raf Sanchez will be on hand. Roof's booking photo has also been released. 

NEW: Dylann Roof booked @ Chas. County Detention Center, CPD says bond hearing pending. #CharlestonShooting pic.twitter.com/EpcO1oqkVb— Melissa Egan (@Melissa_Live5) 
  June 18, 2015
 00.27  Video of Dylann Roof being led out of a police station in North Carolina and, later, onto a plane to be flown back to South Carolina to face charges. Roof drove approximately 250 miles before being apprehended after police received a call about a suspicious vehicle. 


 00.09  Dylann Roof's sister Amber is scheduled to get married this Sunday, according to Reuters.  23.20  Roof is now being flown back to Charleston to face what will almost certainly be murder charges in the deaths of all 9 victims 

Charleston shooting suspect boards a plane in North Carolina to be flown back to South Carolina to face charges pic.twitter.com/QbTV1eBDZ2— NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) 
  June 18, 2015
 23.12  Peter Foster in Washington writes that the tragedy in Charleston has forced Barack Obama to confront the limits of his power to solve racism and gun violence in America. Read Peter's full analysis here.  “Once again,” said a visibly despondent Mr Obama, “innocent people were killed in part because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hands on a gun.”  Two years ago, after the Sandy Hook school shootings that wiped out an entire class of primary school children in Connecticut, Mr Obama’s voice had been edged with anger and a determination that this would finally be the moment when America said “enough”.   ... This was a president approaching the end of his time in office, visibly conscious of the limits both of what was achievable, but also what he has achieved.    22.19  Images are now emerging of the Bible study which Roof allegedly sat in on for an hour before opening fire 

.@CNN airing images from inside the church last night #CharlestonShooting pic.twitter.com/CV7YzNf0KQ— Michael Rusch (@weeddude) 
  June 18, 2015
 22.14  Roof also waived his right to an attorney during police questioning 

Court tells me he also waived his right to an attorney during the 20-minute hearing in Shelby, NC. Unclear when he goes back to SC.— Raf Sanchez (@rafsanchez) 
  June 18, 2015
 22.00  It now appears that Roof has waived extradition, and will now be transported from North Carolina back to Charleston. Joseph Riley, Charleston's mayor, pledged earlier today that Roof would never again be a free man.  21.54  Our own Raf Sanchez is in Charleston tracking down more information on Dylann Roof. Here is the latest on his education history. 

Roof then attended Dreher High School in Columbia for a few months in 9th grade until May 2010. No record of his education after that.— Raf Sanchez (@rafsanchez) 
  June 18, 2015
 21.14  We now have an image of suspect Dylann Roof being escorted from the police department in Shelby, North Carolina, as well as additional information about his arrest 

Dylann Roof being taken out of Shelby Police Department. #CharlestonShooting pic.twitter.com/iLTJTqmMOj— Audrina Bigos (@AudrinaBigos) 
  June 18, 2015


Details of Dylan Roof's arrest from Shelby Police in North Carolina pic.twitter.com/QH67L6toAi— Raf Sanchez (@rafsanchez) 
  June 18, 2015
 20.53   There has been a second bomb threat, according to local media. This time at the Charleston county building. 

Per @mboughtonPC: #CharlestonCounty Building still evacuated & heavy police presence is at the building, Second bomb threat today. #chsnews— The Post and Courier (@postandcourier) 
  June 18, 2015


Building still evacuated & a heavy police presence is at the Charleston County building, 2nd bomb threat today #chsnews #CharlestonShooting— Melissa Boughton (@mboughtonPC) 
  June 18, 2015
 20.49  Law enforcement officers in Shelby, North Carolina, have just held a brief news conference describing how Roof was pulled over in his car at 10.44am, minutes after police received details of a possible sighting, Rob Crilly in New York reports.  John Strong, the FBI special agent in charge of the investigation, said: “The FBI has initiated an investigation into this matter which we are working jointly with our state local partners to determine if a federal hate crime has been committed.”  He added that he would not take questions on the investigation. “The most important point is that the subject is now in custody, the immediate threat to the community no longer exists and we will let the legal process run its course,” he said.  “There are no longer any lives at risk.”  20.46   Hillary Clinton has said the United States must face "hard truths" about race and violence, Reuters reports.  The Democratic presidential front-runner told a Las Vegas conference of Hispanic elected officials tonight: "We have to face hard truths about race, violence, guns and division,"  "How many innocent people in our country from little children, church members to movie theatre attendees, how many people do we need to see cut down before we act?"  20.41   In response to the attack which has shaken the community and devastated many, there are many vigils including this one shared by CS Tyson. 

Here's another vigil planned for tonight. #chsnews #CharlestonChurchShooting pic.twitter.com/Ch6x1Kr3co— CS Tyson (@SamInteractive) 
  June 18, 2015
 20.24  Rae Wooten is giving a press conference and has named the nine victims including state senator Clementa Pinckney, the pastor of Emanuel African Methodist Church, Cynthia Hurd, 54; Tywanza Sanders, 26; Sharonda Singleton; Myra Thompson, 59; Ethel Lance, 70; Susie Jackson, 87; the Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., 74 [only victim to die in hospital]; DePayne Doctor, 49.  Associated Press write that Sanders had recently graduated from Allen University. Hurd worked for Charleston County's library system for 31 years. Doctor was an enrollment counselor at Southern Wesleyan University's Charleston Campus, according to a friend.  In honour of Hurd, the library where she worked was to be renamed as the Cynthia Hurd regional library.  An autopsy will be conducted on all victims.  20.00  The office of Charleston County Coroner has said Rae Wooten will provide the names of the nine victims at a 3pm conference.  We will bring you the names when they are announced.  19.45   Barely twelve hours after the shooting, mourners of all races began to gather at the nearby Morris Brown African Methodist Episcopal church to hold a vigil for the dead, writes Raf Sanchez in Charleston.   Among them was Vanessa Halyard, a local children's advocate, who knew Reverend Pinckney and described him as "a man doing God's work".   Mrs Halyard, 59, said when she heard the news of the shooting she immediately "flashed back" to the bombing of a black church in Alabama in 1963. The explosion, caused by a bomb planted by the Ku Klux Klan, killed four young black girls.   "They don't wear white hoods anymore but there's still so much hate and anger out there," she said. "We're in a different place as a country now but we're also in the same place."  Read Raf's full story here.  19.30   In the Post and Courier, six individuals have been identified but not officially. The website only has the names via those close to the ones believed to be killed. 

Clementa Pinckney, the church’s pastor, whom we had reported on earlier.
Cynthia Hurd, St. Andrews regional branch manager from the Charleston public library
Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, a speech therapist and coach of the girls’ track and field team at Goose Creek High School
Tywanza Sanders, who had studied at Allen University and who named him as one of the victims
Ethel Lance, believed to have worked at the church for three decades
Susie Jackson, Lance’s cousin, named by a relative
 19.24   A former classmate at the White Knoll High School said that Roof "used drugs heavily a lot" and was interested in history of the Southern Confederacy, writes Raf Sanchez in Charleston.  "He made a lot of racist jokes, but you don’t really take them seriously like that," John Mullins told the Daily Beast.  19.03   Associated Press has spoken to an agency which looks at extremists and white supremacist organisations and have said that Roof was not known to them.  However, Mr Cohen - having looked extensively at the suspect's Facebook page - said he appeared to be a "disaffected white supremacist".   18.59   Some more condolences and tributes coming in from presidential candidates.  Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, who cancelled a Friday campaign event in Hilton Head, South Carolina, offered his condolences on Twitter. 

The tragedy in South Carolina is incomprehensible. My deepest condolences to all.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
  June 18, 2015
 Democratic senator Bernie Sanders in a statement on his website  "My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims of last night's shooting in Charleston, who were tragically taken from us as they gathered together in prayer inside their place of worship."  Republican Senator Marco Rubio: "My heart just breaks for the families ... I'm also outraged. This is evil ... this is beyond evil. This is horrific. This monster needs to be tracked down, needs to be brought to justice."  18.47   More from Carson Cowles, the suspect's uncle, who has spoken to Reuters about his concerns regarding Roof.  "I said he was like 19 years old, he still didn't have a job, a driver's license or anything like that and he just stayed in his room a lot of the time," Cowles said in a telephone interview.  He said he tried to "mentor" his nephew. "He didn't like that, and me and him kind of drifted apart," Mr Cowles said.  Mr Cowles said he spoke to Roof two months ago.  "I actually talked to him on the phone briefly for just a few moments and he was saying well I'm outside target practicing with my new gun," describing a phone call around the time of Roof's birthday in April.  "Nobody in my family had seen anything like this coming," Mr Cowles said, speaking shortly before news of Roof's arrest. "I said, if it is him, and when they catch him, he's got to pay for this."  18.16   Rachel Jones has created this information box about US gun laws which have come under scrutiny again after last night's attack.    18.04  Another victim has reportedly been identified as Cynthia Hurd. 

READ: @ChasLibrary on death of longtime library employee Cynthia Hurd. @SenatorMGraham's sister. #CharlestonShooting pic.twitter.com/NrwtqNBSPb— Mark Davenport WBTV (@TheDavenReport) 
  June 18, 2015
 BuzzFeed News reported that Sharonda Coleman-Singleton is another victim. According to the report, Ms Coleman-Singleton was a reverend and mother-of-three.  She was also a sports coach at Goose Creek High School who shared this Facebook post offering their love. 




We love you, Coach Singleton. Gator Nation is where it is today because of your leadership. You have our thoughts and prayers.Posted by 
    The Goose Creek Gators on 
    Thursday, 18 June 2015


 17.54   "Mother Emmanuel is in fact more than a church," said Barack Obama.   This is a place of worship that was founded by African Americans seeking liberty. This is a church that was burned to the ground because its worshippers worked to end slavery.... This is a sacred place in the history of Charleston and of America."  "I'm necessarily constrained in terms of talking about the details of the case. But I don't need to be constrained about the emotions that tragedies like this raise. I've had to make statements like this too many times. Communities like this have had to endure tragedies like this too many times."  "We don't have all the facts but we do know that once again, innocent people were killed in part because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hands on a gun.   "Now is the time for mourning and for healing. But let's be clear: at some point we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this kind of mass violence doesn't happen in other advanced countries.   "It doesn't happen in other places with this kind of frequency, and it is in our power to do something about it. I say that recognising the politics in this town foreclose a lot of those avenues right now, but it'd be wrong for us not to acknowledge it.   "At some point it's going to be important for the American people to come to grips with it."  17.42   President Barack Obama spoke from the White House with a mix of grief and anger, mourning the loss of a preacher he knew personally while insisting that America must "come to grips" with the problem of easy access to guns for those who aim to do harm, writes David Lawler in Washington.    Michelle and I know several members of Emmanuel AME church. We knew their pastor Reverend Clementa Pinckney who along with eight others gathered in prayers and fellowship was murdered last night. To say our thoughts and prayers are with them and their family and their community doesn't say enough to convey the heartache and the sadness and the anger that we feel."  "Any death of this sort is a tragedy. Any shooting involving multiple victims is a tragedy. There is something particularly heartbreaking about a death happening in a place in which we seek solace and we seek peace. In a place of worship."  17.35  Barack Obama is giving a speech right now condemning the 'senseless murders' and has urged a national reckoning on gun violence.  He said he felt anger and heartache over the murders.  17.00  Peter Foster, our US Editor in Washington writes:   Jaime Harrison, the chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party and a close friend of Clementa Pinckney, a local senator who was among the nine dead, has told The Telegraph that it is time America addressed the toxic combination of deep racial hatreds and the widespread availability of guns.   "This was a tragic, but also a terrorist act. If the reports are correct about the things he said in the church and his intentions, there is no more perfect example of a hate crime. It was methodical and he had time to premeditate it, and even decide not to do it.   "It was cold, calculating and we as a nation have to do something to stop this. When racism and this infatuation with giving folks guns, starts to invade us in our churches, when it comes into God’s house, then is enough is enough."  16.55  The suspect was "cooperative" when a police officer stopped him at a traffic stop after a member of the public spotted the car.  Police believe the suspect acted alone, says police chief Mullan.   We don't have any reason to believe there was anyone else involved.  16.51  Mayor Joseph Riley says he has received calls from Joe Biden, the US vice-president who knew victim Clementa Pinckney personally, and Barack Obama, who "conveyed his sympathy and for the people of America to let us know they were with us."   That awful person. That terrible human being who would go into a place of worship where people were playing and kill them is now in custody where he will always remain."  In this great country we hold sacred the places where people come and practice their faiths in safety and in peace. So the arrest of this man is important for us in the community and in this country to begin the process of healing together.  It's a wonderful sign that in America we don't let bad people like this get away with these dastardly deeds.  16.42  Charleston police chief Greg Mullan is holding a press conference:   I am very pleased to say... we have arrested Dylan Roof   He was arrested in Shelby, NC at a traffic stop.   We have detectives preparing to fly to Shelby to interview and prepapre for evidence recovery.  16.40  Loretta Lynch, the US Attorney General, has spoken briefly on the Charleston shooting at the start of her press conference. She confirmed a suspect is in custody. 

BREAKING: Attorney General Lynch: `I can confirm that there is a suspect in custody' in church shooting.— The Associated Press (@AP) 
  June 18, 2015
 President Barack Obama is due to speak on the matter shortly, while a vigil will start for the victims in 20 minutes.  16.22  CNN, MSNBC and CBS are also now reporting that suspect Dylann Roof has been caught and is in custody 

#BREAKING: #CharlestonShooting suspect Dylann Storm Roof caught in Shelby, NC, law enforcement confirms to @CBSNews pic.twitter.com/wEnp2LuBPi— CBS Evening News (@CBSEveningNews) 
  June 18, 2015
 16.19  Local reports claim the suspect has been caught.  According to Meg Rivers, a producer at WLTX News1, he has been caught in Shelby, in North Carolina, just across the border from South Carolina and a four hour drive from Charleston.  She tweeted the information with this picture: 

SUSPECT IN #CharlestonChurchShooting caught in Shelby, NC. He's believed to have killed 9 ppl last night at a church pic.twitter.com/EZOKHYjMcU— Megan Rivers (@MegMRivers) 
  June 18, 2015
 15.25  Carson Cowles, suspect Dylann Roof's uncle, has told Reuters his nephew was a "quiet, soft spoken" person.  The gun he received as a 21st birthday present, and is thought to have used in the shooting, was a .45 calibre pistol.  15.20  Roof is shown wearing a jacket bearing the flags of apartheid-era South Africa and white minority rule Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe)   15.18  Suspect Dylann Roof was arrested for trespassing on April 26, 2015.  He had previously been jailed on March 1, also in South Carolina's Lexington County, on a drug charge, according to the Post & Courier.   15.13  Police are at the home of Dylann Roof's mother, his uncle has told Reuters.  Roof received the gun he is believed to have used in the shooting as a birthday present just two months ago, the uncle said.  The uncle recognised Roof from the surveillance images circulated earlier by police.  "The more I look at him, the more I'm convinced, that's him," said Carson Cowles, 56, in a phone interview.  

Have you seen Dylann Roof? @FBI confirms 21-year-old as #CharlestonShooting suspect. http://t.co/3ijYaNanPM #chsnews pic.twitter.com/6blL5HGMLX— The Post and Courier (@postandcourier) 
  June 18, 2015
 15.07  The FBI have named the shooter as Dylann Roof, 21, from near Columbia, the largest city and state capital of South Carolina.  If you wish to read our coverage of the shootings as it happened earlier today and last night, you can find the link here. 










Follow @telegraphnews


































Top news galleries





Princess Charlotte's christening: official photos




 




The official pictures of Princess Charlotte's christening by the celebrated 
  photographer are released - plus all the other best pictures from a glorious 
  day at Sandringham






40 great quotes about marriage




 


 Culture


As Married at First Sight begins, Martin Chilton looks at quotes about 
  matrimony from Socrates to Sinatra


Comments






Roger Federer's top 10 bust-ups




 




In pics: As he prepares to face long-term rival Andy Murray at 
  Wimbledon, we look at the times when even the Swiss superstar lost his 
  cool...


Comments






Queues, fights and chaos in London




 




In pics: Tube shuts down completely for the first time in 13 years 


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




Underwater basil, a gull stealing a fish and the Pope in South America 






Will and Kate join Beckhams at Wimbledon




 




Celebrities relax as they watch the action in SW19






Budget 2015: winners and losers




 




The Budget winners and losers at a glance 


Comments






Banksy holidays - the Greek crisis in graffiti




 




The Greek public voted against austerity in its general election in January 
  and in the referendum in early July. Emotions are running high and the 
  locals are expressing their feelings on the walls of their cities.






SDCC2015 begins




 




In pics: Cosplayers descend on San Diego as Comic-con begins


Comments






Celebrity Sightings




 




Starring: Cressida Bonas, Cara Delevingne and Ella Eyre









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»










Britons told to leave Tunisia amid attack fears











#TubeStrike: How the internet reacted











Ducks invade pitch during friendly











Murray v Federer - their rivalry by numbers











'My dad doesn't want to be in Syria with IS'











Dramatic high-speed car chase



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 









            Loading
        



































News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Asa Bennett: How well off are London's tube drivers and why are they striking?
Tube strike update: Travel chaos expected all day Thursday in London: live
Homeless boy using McDonald’s light to do homework proves inspirational
Dan Hodges: Their Budget response was beyond parody  - Labour still haven't got a clue
Armed police swoop on suburban sex dungeon after noise complaints




US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
Rhino poachers shot dead in Kruger National Park
Second heatwave could be hottest ever
Heatwave: staff should be sent home if workplace gets hotter than 30C - Labour MP




Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93 - latest reaction
Skegness fairground ride collapses
How two people found love thanks to Mad Max
US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Summer Recipes




 




                                Heston Blumenthal's perfect summer cocktail recipe



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































