Gov. Haley To Reportedly Address Confederate Flag At South Carolina Capitol Grounds - BuzzFeed News
Gov. Haley To Reportedly Address Confederate Flag At South Carolina Capitol Grounds - BuzzFeed News









































































































































































































































































































































				Have you seen BuzzFeed English?
				
					Check it out

















BuzzFeed News












News


Buzz


Life


Quizzes


Videos



More
 


BuzzFeed Community
 Make A Post!


SECTIONS


Animals


Audio


Big Stories


Books


Business


Celebrity


DIY


Entertainment


Food


Geeky


Health


Ideas


LGBT


Music


Parents


Podcasts


Politics


Rewind


Science


Sports


Style


Tech


Travel


Weddings


Weekend


World





Advertise
Jobs
Mobile
Newsletters


              
              US Edition
              


US Edition
UK Edition
Australia
Brasil
Canada
Deutschland
Español
France
India Edition
México




About
Press
RSS
Privacy
User Terms
Ad Choices
Help
Contact
© 2015 BuzzFeed, Inc

Made in NY





Get Our App!

























NEW POST
MY FEED
DASHBOARD
FEEDS/USERS
SETTINGS
SIGN OUT

























Your Post Has Been Launched!
Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.






Developing...




Gov. Haley To Reportedly Address Confederate Flag At South Carolina Capitol Grounds

				
				
				Gov. Nikki Haley has previously stated that the flag is not an issue but demands for its removal increased after Dylann Roof was charged with murdering nine members of a prayer group at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. BuzzFeed News reporters Joel Anderson and Albert Samaha are in Charleston.

















BuzzFeed News
BuzzFeed Staff


























































View this image ›

 Stephen B. Morton / AP Photo


What We Know So Far:


Several family members of the nine people Dylann Roof, 21, allegedly shot and killed at a historic black church in Charleston told him they forgive him during a dramatic court appearance on Friday.
“I forgive you and my family forgives you,” a family member for Myra Thompson said at his bail hearing.
Roof was denied bond for nine murder charges and was held on $1 million bond for a gun charge.
Roof is suspected of fatally shooting three men and six women who gathered for a prayer meeting at a historic black church in Charleston Wednesday night.
The Justice Department is reportedly investigating the shooting as an act of domestic terrorism. U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch has launched a hate crime investigation into the attack.
President Obama addressed the tragedy Friday, saying, “the apparent motivations of the shooter remind us that racism remains a blight that we have to combat together.”
Officials said the shooter sat at the church meeting for an hour before opening fire. 
“There is absolutely no doubt in my mind this is a hate crime,” Charleston’s police chief said Thursday. U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said she has launched a hate crime investigation into the attack.





Load 0 New Update

Updates


















Gov. Nikki Haley will address the removal of the Confederate flag from the State Capitol grounds in a 4:00 p.m. press conference, according to reports.


Sources: Nikki Haley To Address Flag - http://t.co/YOseqwopak
		— fitsnews (@Will Folks aka Sic)
		




The demands for the flag to be removed from the South Carolina Capitol grounds have increased in the wake of the Charleston church shooting that left nine people dead. 
Haley has scheduled a press conference for 4:00 p.m. EDT in the lobby of the State House and will reportedly meet with the S.C. Speaker of the House and the Senate president to discuss her plan for the Confederate flag, according to FitsNews. 
Haley has previously stated while the Confederate flag is a “sensitive issue” it should not be removed because “not a single CEO” has complained to her about it. 
Haley’s office did not immediately respond to BuzzFeed News’ request for comment.






















The scene outside, as people file out of the church:
		— AlbertSamaha (@Albert Samaha)
		






















Here is the front page of Sunday’s Post and Courier newspaper.


Sunday's front page of Charleston's The Post and Courier
		— MichaelSkolnik (@Michael Skolnik)
		























Follow BuzzFeed News reporter Albert Samaha, who is in Charleston’s Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church for Sunday’s service.


Ten minutes to the start of the service
		— AlbertSamaha (@Albert Samaha)
		







the organ is playing and the seats are nearly all filled
		— AlbertSamaha (@Albert Samaha)
		







this is a beautiful church
		— AlbertSamaha (@Albert Samaha)
		







Inside:
		— AlbertSamaha (@Albert Samaha)
		







A woman next to me is trying to explain to her young daughter what happened. The daughter had asked why there are so many people here.
		— AlbertSamaha (@Albert Samaha)
		







Attendees are many and diverse, so much so that in one pew you have conservative @RickSantorum and activist @deray.
		— trymainelee (@Trymaine Lee)
		























The Mother Emanuel AME Church, in Charleston, South Carolina, where on Thursday nine people were gunned down during a Bible study, will reopen its doors on Sunday.







View this image ›

 Brendan Smialowski /AFP / Getty Images


On Saturday members of the historic African-American church met in the room where their fellow worshippers were allegedly shot dead by 21-year-old Dylann Roof.
Many members and non-members are expected at Sunday morning’s service,
scheduled for 9 a.m. ET.
Harold Washington, who attended Saturday’s meeting, said the church would be open to all on Sunday.
“We’re gonna have people come by that we’ve never seen before and will probably never see again, and that’s OK,” Washington told the BBC. “It’s a church of the Lord — you don’t turn nobody down.”
On Saturday, people from across the country flocked to the vicinity of the historic black church to join a number of pastors in prayer.
Monte Talmadge, a 62-year-old army veteran, told the BBC he drove 300 miles to get to Charleston.
“There was an overwhelming feeling that made me drive here,” Talmadge said.




















The shooting deaths of nine black people by a white man in a Charleston church on Wednesday night was not an act of terrorism, FBI Director James Comey said Friday.







View this image ›

 CNN / Via mediaite.com


Speaking in Baltimore, Comey said his agency is investigating the murders as hate crimes, but that he does not believe they meet the legal criteria for terrorist acts.
“Terrorism is act of violence done or threatened to in order to try to influence a public body or citizenry, so it’s more of a political act,” he said.
“Based on what I know so far I don’t see it as a political act. That doesn’t make it any less horrific… but terrorism has a definition under federal law,” he said.
The official FBI definition of terrorism defines it as “the unlawful use of force or violence against persons or property to intimidate or coerce a government, the civilian population, or any segment thereof, in furtherance of political or social objectives.”



Video available at: http://youtube.com/watch?v=Usb4CnOcF6M.

 youtube.com




















Accused killer Dylann Roof talked about attacking a college campus a week before the Charleston massacre, a friend said Friday.

Christon Scriven told the Associated Press that he and Roof were drinking on June 10 when Roof revealed plans to go on a mass shooting at the College of Charleston. 
However, Scriven, who is black, told the AP he thought his white drinking companion was just drunk. Even so, Scriven and another friend, Joey Meeks, were concerned enough that they hid Roof’s gun until they all sobered up, the AP reported.
His account bolstered a narrative discussed earlier by Meeks: that Roof had likely been planning the mass shooting for quite some time before carrying it out at Emanuel AME Church Wednesday night.



























View this image ›

Judge James Gosnell speaks during a bond hearing for Dylann Storm Roof.  Grace Beahm / AP


The county magistrate who presided over the bond hearing for Dylann Roof, a white man accused of killing nine people in a historic black church, has been publicly reprimanded in the past for using the N-word in court.
Charleston County Magistrate Gosnell received the public reprimand in 2005 in regard to another bond hearing. 
“There are four kinds of people in this world,” Gosnell told an African-American defendant in 2003, according to the public reprimand by the state’s Supreme Court. “Black people, white people, red necks and n*****s.”
Gosnell told the defendant the statement was relayed to him by a veteran African American deputy. 
The judge argued during his disciplinary hearing that he decided to tell the defendant the phrase “to encourage him to recognize and change the path he had chosen in life.”
Gosnell was also disciplined for trying to interfere when a fellow judge was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence — including personally calling a police lieutenant to have the judge released, and then driving to bond court so the arrested judge would not spend the night in jail.



























View this image ›

President Obama speaks at the Annual Meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors in San Francisco.  Carolyn Kaster / AP


President Obama on Friday called for a change in gun control laws in the wake of the Charleston massacre.

Speaking at the U.S. Conference of Mayors in San Francisco, Obama said gun violence “tears at the fabric of the community.” He also said that the Charleston shooting in particular reminds the nation “that racism remains a blight that we have to combat together.” 
“When it’s poisoning the minds of young people it betrays our ideals and tears our democracy apart,” Obama said. 
He then called for discussion about gun violence in the U.S., criticizing those who say any debate about the issue is a “plot to take everybody’s guns away.” 
He also clarified earlier comments about not believing Congress would take action, pointing out that public opinion will be the ultimate driver.
“We have to move public opinion,” Obama said. “Ultimately, Congress will follow the people.”
He added: “We need a change in attitude, among everybody — lawful gun owners, those who are unfamiliar with guns. We have to have a conversation about it and fix this.”

























 Facebook: video.php


During Dylann Roof’s court hearing Friday, the judge said reminded the audience that there were victims beyond those killed in the church shooting.

Judge James Gosnell said Roof’s family were also suffering as a result of the massacre, in which nine people were killed. 
“We must find it in our heart at some point in time not only to help those that are victims, but to also help his family as well,” he said.




















Dylann Roof’s family released an official statement Friday, saying they have been “touched by the moving words” from victims’ families.







View this image ›

 newsncarolina.com


“The Roof family would like to extend their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims,” the statement read. “Words cannot express our shock, grief and disbelief as to what happened that night.”
“Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of those killed this week,” the statement continued. “We have all been touched by the moving words from the victims’ families offering God’s forgiveness and love in the face of such horrible suffering.”




















Charleston prosecutor reportedly said she will consult with the victims’ families before asking for the death penalty against Roof:


MORE: Charleston prosecutor says she'll talk to families before deciding whether to seek death penalty: http://t.co/2khQM6o5Mz
		— AP (@The Associated Press)
		























Charleston solicitor Scarlett Wilson announced that officials are now moving in to the prosecution phase.







View this image ›

 wdbj7.com


Law enforcement is still investigating the shooting, but the focus is now shifting to the prosecution. 
Wilson vowed to serve justice efficiently and effectively.




















Family members of the shooting victims told Dylann Roof at his bond hearing that they “forgive” him.

The victims’ family members were given an opportunity to speak before the judge set Roof’s bond at $1 million for the gun charge. 
The family members could be heard crying during the court proceedings. 
A family representative for Susie Jackson said, “You hurt me, you hurt a lot of people. But god forgive you.”
“Repent,” began a family member of victim Myra Thompson. “I forgive you and my family forgives you.”
Felicia Sanders, who survived the attack with her granddaughter by reportedly playing dead — she is a relative of victim Tywanza Sanders — said, “We welcomed you Wednesday night in our Bible study with open arms.”
“Every fiber in my body hurts,” she said. “God have mercy on you.”




#CharlestonShooting suspect Dylann Roof enters room for bond hearing
		— BuzzFeedNews (@BuzzFeed News)
		





Video of the proceedings and family comments is here:





 Facebook: video.php




















Watch live: Solicitor Scarlett Wilson’s press conference following a bond hearing for Dylann Roof.




Someone was praying outside bond hearing court before Dylann Roof to appear for hearing #chsnews #CharlestonShooting
		— mboughtonPC (@Melissa Boughton)
		





more updates 

 


48.


“Every Fiber In My Body Hurts”: Charleston Church Survivor Confronts Alleged Gunman At Emotional Court Hearing

buzzfeed.com







49.


The Most Moving Images From The Charleston Church Shooting Aftermath

buzzfeed.com







50.


Brother Of Charleston Shooting Victim Says "He Saved My 11-Year-Old Daughter's Life"

buzzfeed.com







51.


Charleston Shooting Victim Clementa Pinckney Gave A Moving Speech On Walter Scott

buzzfeed.com







52.


Dylann Roof Allegedly Uttered Racial Slur At Church Shooting Witness

buzzfeed.com







53.


Obama Speaks On Charleston Church Shooting: "I've Had To Make Statements Like These Too Many Times"

buzzfeed.com







54.


Here Are the Victims Of The Charleston Church Shooting

buzzfeed.com







55.


Here Is What We Know About The Suspect In The Charleston Church Massacre

buzzfeed.com







56.


Rev. Clementa Pinckney’s Call To Preach Came Early

buzzfeed.com







57.


This Heartfelt Message Was Left On The Alleged Charleston Shooter's Facebook Page

buzzfeed.com







58.


Attending Physician In Charleston Emergency Room Recalls The Shooting’s Aftermath

buzzfeed.com







59.


Charleston Church Targeted In Shooting Has A Deep Civil Rights History

buzzfeed.com







60.


Hillary Clinton On Charleston Church Shooting: We Have To Face Hard Truths About Race, Violence, And Guns

buzzfeed.com







61.


Tipster Recalls Following Charleston Shooting Suspect On Highway Until Police Arrive

buzzfeed.com







62.


9 Killed In Shooting At Historic Black Church In Charleston

buzzfeed.com







63.


Black Residents Of Charleston Were Leaving Even Before Shooting

buzzfeed.com






Reporting by Jessica Simeone, Stephanie McNeal, Mary Ann Georgantopoulos, Tasneem Nashrulla, Tamerra Griffin, Ema O’Connor and Albert Samaha in New York; Claudia Koerner, Jim Dalrymple II, Salvador Hernandez, and Adolfo Flores in Los Angeles.



Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com!



















































More ▾






















 


Facebook Conversations










Tagged:charleston, charleston church shooting, charleston shooting, emanuel ame church 


 


Facebook Conversations
















advertise


jobs


mobile


newsletter



	
	US Edition
	

US
UK
Australia
Brasil
Canada
Deutschland
Español
France
India
México






about


press


RSS


privacy


user terms


ad Choices


Help


Contact



 © 2015  BuzzFeed, Inc 






Are you sure you want to remove this item? You can\'t restore it with "Cancel" button!

No
Yes






Please wait...


Cancel








This Post Is Locked
 has been editing this post since .
Unlock and edit anyway



Uh Oh!
 took your lock at .

Refresh the post



Super Uh Oh!
Something's wrong, a mini-history of this post:


Reload the page


View Draft






What type of post are you making?

New Article
List
Breaking







Crop Image ×















Upload an Image
Crop Image
Are These Thumbnails Okay?
×




Choose a new image
Save
Save Thumbnails
Preview Thumbnails





			I know, right? Will your friends agree?
		

Close









Cancel








#{img_n_width}x#{img_n_height}





x


Email this to a friend











Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.


Please enter the CAT-CHA

Catcha question...









 

Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive.
Your email has been sent!
Get our awesome newsletter at 




BuzzFeeᴅ
7x per week







No thanks





Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later.


Great! You'll get your first email soon.

 


Share This Link























