'You rape our women and are taking over our country,' Charleston church gunman told black victims - Telegraph
'You rape our women and are taking over our country,' Charleston church gunman told black victims - Telegraph
























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Thursday 09 July 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
North America»
USA











'You rape our women and are taking over our country,' Charleston church gunman told black victims

The suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, 21, was captured 14 hours after the massacre 
  of nine people in a Bible study group, the United States' bloodiest hate 
  crime in decades 

















Charleston shooting suspect Dylann Storm Roof is escorted from the Sheby Police Department Photo: AP/Chuck Burton









 


 Raf Sanchez in Charleston, Peter Foster in Washington

7:39PM BST 18 Jun 2015
 


 A white supremacist gunman told his black victims "you rape our women and you’re taking over our country" as he massacred nine people inside a historic African-American church in the southern city of Charleston.  The suspect Dylann Storm Roof, 21, was captured 14 hours after the shooting but the killing spree left the United States agonising over how to face up to the bloodiest hate crime in decades.  "This is not the first time that black churches have been attacked," said President Barack Obama. "We know that hatred across races and faiths pose a particular threat to our democracy and our ideals."  • Charleston shooting: suspect Dylann Roof 'in custody' after church murder of nine - latest updates  The young suspect seems to have been steeped in white supremacist culture and the FBI said the killings were being treated as a hate crime. He posed in a jacket with the insignia of Apartheid South Africa and had the flag of the Confederacy on his car's registration plate.   Roof allegedly arrived at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church at around 8pm on Wednesday night and sat in a Bible study group with his victims for more than an hour before opening fire.  Among the dead was Reverend Clementa Pinckney, the church pastor and a local politician, and his sister. Six women and three men were killed in total.  The other victims were named on Thursday as Cynthia Hurd, 54; Tywanza Sanders, 26; Sharonda Singleton; Myra Thompson, 59; Ethel Lance, 70; Susie Jackson, 87; the Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr.; and DePayne Doctor.  Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of Reverend Pinckney, told NBC she had spoken to one of the survivors who claimed that the gunman tried to justify his killings as he slaughtered his victims.  “I have to do it,” he reportedly said as he reloaded his gun five different times. “You rape our women and you’re taking over our country and you have to go.”  As his victims lay dying in the church, the gunman fled into the night and sparked a vast manhunt throughout the southern United States.   Roof's car was pulled over by police on Thursday afternoon in Shelby, North Carolina, around 200 miles from the scene of the crime. Police said a local resident had raised the alarm after seeing his car and Roof offered no resistance as he was arrested.  • Charleston church shooting: what we know so far  The Emanuel Church, sometimes referred to as "Mother Emanuel", is one of America's most historic black places of worship and Mr Obama called it "more than a church".   The Emanuel Church is viewed behind a police vehicle (AFP)  One of its founder was executed for leading a slave uprising and it was burnt to the ground in retaliation by white slaveowners only to be built again. Martin Luther King spoke there in 1962 during the civil rights struggle.  "Mother Emanuel church and its congregation have risen before - from flames, from an earthquake, from other dark times - to give hope to generations of Charlestonians," Mr Obama said.  "With our prayers and our love, and the buoyancy of hope, it will rise again now as a place of peace."  The president also renewed his calls for new gun control laws, saying the US was the only advanced economy to suffer "this type of mass violence".  The massacre comes as America continues an often painful national debate about race and policing. Three months earlier, a white police officer killed an unarmed black man, Walter Scott, when he shot him in the back in North Charleston, just a few miles from Mother Emanuel. 


 Barely twelve hours after the shooting, mourners of all races began to gather at the nearby Morris Brown African Methodist Episcopal church to hold a vigil for the dead.  Among them was Vanessa Halyard, a local children's advocate, who knew Reverend Pinckney and described him as "a man doing God's work".  Mrs Halyard, 59, said when she heard the news of the shooting she immediately "flashed back" to the bombing of a black church in Alabama in 1963. The explosion, caused by a bomb planted by the Ku Klux Klan, killed four young black girls.    "They don't wear white hoods anymore but there's still so much hate and anger out there," she said. "We're in a different place as a country now but we're also in the same place."  Others said the police response seemed to lack urgency. "If a black man shot up a white church, the police would tear this city apart to find who did," said Michelle Felder, an African-American woman who also knew Reverend Pinckney.  Roof was arrested on suspicion of trespassing in April but does not appear to have been charged. He was also jailed briefly in March on a drugs charge.  Carson Cowles, the suspect's uncle, told Reuters his nephew was a "quiet, soft spoken" person.  A photograph on Facebook showed him posing with a car that had a novelty "Confederate States of America" registration plate. He allegedly used the same car to make his getaway from the church.  A former classmate at the White Knoll High School said that Roof "used drugs heavily a lot" and was interested in history of the Southern Confederacy.  "He made a lot of racist jokes, but you don’t really take them seriously like that," John Mullins told the Daily Beast.  Police have not said if they recovered a gun during the arrest but Roof's uncle said his father had given him a .45 pistol for his 21st birthday in April.   Roof is due to appear in court in North Carolina before being extradited back to South Carolina to face charges. 




     Charleston shooting: how the horror unfolded 
   




      Wednesday, June 17 
    


       9pm (local time) 
     




       A man kneels across the street from where police gather outside the Emanuel AME Church (AP) 
     


      A man enters the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church where a bible group was meeting. He sits down before opening fire killing 9 people. He flees the scene. 
    



      Thursday, June 18 
    


       6.45am (BST) 
     


      Police release a description of the suspect 
    




       7.09am (BST) 
     


      Local police chief Gregory Mullen stages a press conference declaring that 8 people died at the scene whilst a 9th died after being taken to hospital 
    




       7.10am (BST) 
     




       Reverend Clementa Pinckney is among the dead (Facebook) 
     


      Reverend Al Sharpton tweets that the church's pastor, and member of the state Senate, Reverend Clementa Pinckney is among the dead 
    




       7.11am (BST) 
     


      Jed Bush cancels a rally scheduled to take place in Charleston. 
    




       7.42am (BST) 
     


      Charleston's Mayor issues the following statement: "The only reason that someone could walk into a church and shoot people praying is out of hate. It is the most dastardly act that one could possibly imagine, and we will bring that person to justice. This is one hateful person. This is the most unspeakable and heart-breaking tragedy. People [were] in prayer on a Wednesday evening. A ritual coming together, praying and worshipping God. To have an awful person come in and shoot them is, is inexplicable." 
    




       8.12am (BST) 
     


      Nikki Haley, governor of South Carolina, says in a statement: "Michael, Rena, Nalin and I are praying for the victims and families touched by tonight's senseless tragedy at Emanuel AME Church. While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we'll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another. Please join us in lifting up the victims and their families with our love and prayers." 
    




       09.07am (BST) 
     


      A bomb threat is reported near the sight of the church - reporters are told to leave and the area is evacuated. 
    




       11.05am (BST) 
     




       A 'Need to Identify' poster issued by the Charleston Police Department 
     


      A photo of the suspect is released by the local police department. 
    




       11.21am (BST) 
     


      Charleston police chief Greg Mullen holds a press conference urging the public not to approach the suspect. 
    




       12.10pm (BST) 
     









      Mayor of Charleston Joesph Riley issues a statement about the horrific events. 
    




       3.04pm (BST) 
     


      More information emerges about the shooting. Sylvia Johnson says: "From my understanding the suspect came to the church and he asked for the pastor. They showed him where the pastor was. He sat next to my cousin, Rev Clementa Pinckney, throughout the entire bible study. At the conclusion of the bible study, from what I understand, they just start hearing a loud noise, it's just ringing out, and the suspect had already wounded a couple of individuals including my cousin Rev Clementa Pinckney. [One of the survivors] said he [the suspect] had reloaded five different times, and her son was trying to talk him out of doing the act of killing people. And he just said 'I have to do it... you rape our women and you're taking over our country, and you have to go'." 
    




       3.07pm (BST) 
     


      The FBI name the suspect as 21-year-old Dylaan Roof. 
    




       3.20pm (BST) 
     




       Charleston shooting suspect Dylaan Roof, 21 (EPA) 
     


      A picture emerges of Roof wearing a jacket adorned with the flags of White ruled Rhodesia and apartheid-era South Africa. 
    




       4.40pm (BST) 
     


      Amid reports from CNN and CBS, the US Attorney General Lorretta Lynch confirms that a suspect has been detained in connection with the shooting. 
    




       4.42pm (BST) 
     









      Chief Mullen confirms the news: "I am very pleased to say... we have arrested Dylan RoofHe was arrested in Shelby, NC at a traffic stop. We have detectives preparing to fly to Shelby to interview and prepare for evidence recovery." 
    




       5.35pm (BST) 
     


      President Obama speaks of his anger and pain over the shootings. 
    
















Follow @telegraphnews


































Top news galleries





Princess Charlotte's christening: official photos




 




The official pictures of Princess Charlotte's christening by the celebrated 
  photographer are released - plus all the other best pictures from a glorious 
  day at Sandringham






40 great quotes about marriage




 


 Culture


As Married at First Sight begins, Martin Chilton looks at quotes about 
  matrimony from Socrates to Sinatra


Comments






Roger Federer's top 10 bust-ups




 




In pics: As he prepares to face long-term rival Andy Murray at 
  Wimbledon, we look at the times when even the Swiss superstar lost his 
  cool...


Comments






Queues, fights and chaos in London




 




In pics: Tube shuts down completely for the first time in 13 years 


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




Underwater basil, a gull stealing a fish and the Pope in South America 






Will and Kate join Beckhams at Wimbledon




 




Celebrities relax as they watch the action in SW19






Budget 2015: winners and losers




 




The Budget winners and losers at a glance 


Comments






Banksy holidays - the Greek crisis in graffiti




 




The Greek public voted against austerity in its general election in January 
  and in the referendum in early July. Emotions are running high and the 
  locals are expressing their feelings on the walls of their cities.






SDCC2015 begins




 




In pics: Cosplayers descend on San Diego as Comic-con begins


Comments






Celebrity Sightings




 




Starring: Cressida Bonas, Cara Delevingne and Ella Eyre









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»










Britons told to leave Tunisia amid attack fears











#TubeStrike: How the internet reacted











Ducks invade pitch during friendly











Murray v Federer - their rivalry by numbers











'My dad doesn't want to be in Syria with IS'











Dramatic high-speed car chase



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 









            Loading
        



































News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Asa Bennett: How well off are London's tube drivers and why are they striking?
Tube strike update: Travel chaos expected all day Thursday in London: live
Homeless boy using McDonald’s light to do homework proves inspirational
Dan Hodges: Their Budget response was beyond parody  - Labour still haven't got a clue
Armed police swoop on suburban sex dungeon after noise complaints




US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
Rhino poachers shot dead in Kruger National Park
Second heatwave could be hottest ever
Heatwave: staff should be sent home if workplace gets hotter than 30C - Labour MP




Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93 - latest reaction
Skegness fairground ride collapses
How two people found love thanks to Mad Max
US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Summer Recipes




 




                                Heston Blumenthal's perfect summer cocktail recipe



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 



































