South Carolina shooting: police hunt gunman who killed nine people in Charleston church - Telegraph
South Carolina shooting: police hunt gunman who killed nine people in Charleston church - Telegraph
























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Thursday 09 July 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
North America»
USA











South Carolina shooting: police hunt gunman who killed nine people in Charleston church

Police in South Carolina say they are investigating a "hate crime" 
  as they hunt for a white gunman who opened fire at a historic place of 
  worship for African-Americans 


















 






							By 
											Rob Crilly, New York, and agencies

7:15AM BST 18 Jun 2015

Follow


 


 Police in Charleston, South Carolina, are hunting a gunman who shot dead nine people at a church with a predominantly black congregation.  • Nine killed at South Carolina church: follow latest updates  Officers said he burst in on a Bible study group at the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church at abut 9pm. 

Suspect in shooting on Calhoun St is a w/m approx 21 slender small build wearing a grey sweat shirt blue jeans timberland boots clean shaven— Charleston P.D. (@CharlestonPD) 
  June 18, 2015
 Greg Mullen, the Charleston police chief, confirmed that nine people had died.   Worshippers embrace following a group prayer across the street from the scene of the shooting (AP)  "It will be investigated as a hate crime," he said.  He added that police were still hunting for the gunman three hours later.  "It is unfathomable that someone would walk into a church when people are having a prayer meeting and take their lives."  Earlier Joe Riley, mayor of Charleston, confirmed that had been fatalities.   Police close off a section of Calhoun Street near the Emanuel AME Church (AP)  "This is an unspeakable and heartbreaking tragedy in this most historic church, an evil and hateful person took the lives of citizens who had come to worship and pray together," he said.  Thomas Dixon, a local pastor, told CNN: "It's really bad. It's a very bad scene.   The scene minutes after a gunman opened fire on a church in Charleston  "Apparently the person just entered the church and opened fire.  "That part has not been fully articulated on what happened yet ... they are still looking for the suspect." 

Breaking: @CharlestonPD confirm shooting unclear officially how many hurt. Saw 1 transported @ABCNews4 #chsnews #chs pic.twitter.com/Z445Jw6f6T— Jason Tighe (@jtighe08) 
  June 18, 2015
 A helicopter hovered overhead as police sealed off streets around the church.  The website for the church said it has one of the largest and oldest black congregations in the region.  The church was built in 1891 and is considered a historically significant building, according to the National Park Service.   A small prayer circle forms close to the shooting at the Emanuel AME Church (AP)  Charleston is known locally as "The Holy City," due to its large number of churches and historical mix of immigrant ethnic groups that brought a variety of creeds to the southern city on the Atlantic coast.  • South Carolina officer who shot black suspect is charged with murder  Local reports said a Bible study group met on Wednesday evenings.   Local ministers comfort each other near the site of the shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist (AME) Episcopal Church (EPA)  Police briefly detained a man who matched the description of the gunman, however, he was identified as a local photographer and the search continued. 

This is Powerful. Local pastors, collectively are seen praying down the street from shooting scene. #Charleston pic.twitter.com/44TnFh1xZq— Pranaav Jadhav (@pranaavj) 
  June 18, 2015
 A group of several men stood in a circle in front of a hotel near the church. "We pray for the families, they've got a long road ahead of them," Reverend James Johnson, a local civil rights activist, said during the impromptu prayer service.  Race relations have been under intense scrutiny during the past year, a period marked by protests at police brutality directed at young, black men. 










Follow @telegraphnews


































Top news galleries





Princess Charlotte's christening: official photos




 




The official pictures of Princess Charlotte's christening by the celebrated 
  photographer are released - plus all the other best pictures from a glorious 
  day at Sandringham






40 great quotes about marriage




 


 Culture


As Married at First Sight begins, Martin Chilton looks at quotes about 
  matrimony from Socrates to Sinatra


Comments






Roger Federer's top 10 bust-ups




 




In pics: As he prepares to face long-term rival Andy Murray at 
  Wimbledon, we look at the times when even the Swiss superstar lost his 
  cool...


Comments






Queues, fights and chaos in London




 




In pics: Tube shuts down completely for the first time in 13 years 


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




Underwater basil, a gull stealing a fish and the Pope in South America 






Will and Kate join Beckhams at Wimbledon




 




Celebrities relax as they watch the action in SW19






Budget 2015: winners and losers




 




The Budget winners and losers at a glance 


Comments






Banksy holidays - the Greek crisis in graffiti




 




The Greek public voted against austerity in its general election in January 
  and in the referendum in early July. Emotions are running high and the 
  locals are expressing their feelings on the walls of their cities.






SDCC2015 begins




 




In pics: Cosplayers descend on San Diego as Comic-con begins


Comments






Celebrity Sightings




 




Starring: Cressida Bonas, Cara Delevingne and Ella Eyre









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»










Britons told to leave Tunisia amid attack fears











#TubeStrike: How the internet reacted











Ducks invade pitch during friendly











Murray v Federer - their rivalry by numbers











'My dad doesn't want to be in Syria with IS'











Dramatic high-speed car chase



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 









            Loading
        



































News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Asa Bennett: How well off are London's tube drivers and why are they striking?
Tube strike update: Travel chaos expected all day Thursday in London: live
Homeless boy using McDonald’s light to do homework proves inspirational
Dan Hodges: Their Budget response was beyond parody  - Labour still haven't got a clue
Armed police swoop on suburban sex dungeon after noise complaints




US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
Rhino poachers shot dead in Kruger National Park
Second heatwave could be hottest ever
Heatwave: staff should be sent home if workplace gets hotter than 30C - Labour MP




Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93 - latest reaction
Skegness fairground ride collapses
How two people found love thanks to Mad Max
US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Summer Recipes




 




                                Heston Blumenthal's perfect summer cocktail recipe



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































