Charleston shootings: Who are the nine victims? - Telegraph
Charleston shootings: Who are the nine victims? - Telegraph
























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Thursday 09 July 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
North America»
USA











Charleston shootings: Who are the nine victims?

The Charleston coroner has named the nine victims killed in the attack at the 
  historic African-American church in South Carolina

















Police lead suspected shooter Dylann Roof, 21, into the courthouse in Shelby, North Carolina Photo: REUTERS









 






							By 
											Raziye Akkoc

10:59PM BST 18 Jun 2015

Follow


 


 The Charleston county coroner has identified the nine victims of Wednesday night's shootings in the Emanuel AME Church in South Carolina.  Rae Wooten, the coroner, said an autopsy would now take place on all the victims.  As Dylann Roof, 21, was arrested for allegedly carrying out the massacre, families and loved ones of the victims were coming to terms with the shocking events of the night before.  • Charleston shooting: suspect Dylann Roof 'in custody' after church murder of nine - latest updates  These are the nine victims and what we know about them so far:  Rev Clementa Pinckney   (EPA)  Rev Clementa Pinckney was the pastor of Emanuel AME Church and was one of the first victims identified in the media. The 41-year-old was a beloved state senator and a committed civil rights leader.  He graduated from Allen University with a degree in business administration and was described by the university as one of its most "prominent alums".  According to the church's website, Rev Pinckney became a pastor at the age of 18, and at 23 he was elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives. He was elected to the state senate four years later, in 2000.  Rev Pinckney was the youngest African-American in South Carolina to be elected to the state legislature.  He and his wife Jennifer had two children - Eliana and Malana.  Sharonda Coleman-Singleton  Ms Coleman-Singleton, 45, was a reverend, a track coach at Goose Creek High School and a speech therapist. She was described as an "incredible mother" of three children in local media. 

Ms. Coleman-Singleton was a reverend, track coach at Goose Creek High, speech therapist & incredible mother #chsnews pic.twitter.com/UoHuEHcVL2— Berkeley County SC (@BerkeleySCGov) 
  June 18, 2015
 She was described as an "awesome" colleague by Goose Creek Gators baseball coach Chris Pond.  Mr Pond told the Berkeley Independent: "She was one of the best baseball fans you could have for your team. She loved everyone and always had a positive attitude about everything. She’ll be greatly missed.  "I saw her at work every day and she always had a smile on her face. When I was doing duty she would walk by me with that awesome smile and never had a bad smile."  Cynthia Hurd   Ms Hurd, 54, worked at the Charleston County public library, and was described as "dedicated" by her colleagues. She worked as manager of the John L. Dart branch of the library and an announcement on the County library's Facebook page said they would close all library locations in her honour.  "Charleston County Public Library is saddened to confirm the loss of one of our own in Wednesday's shooting... she dedicated her life to serving and improving the lives of others," it said. 




Library closings for Thursday and Friday announced Charleston County Public Library is saddened to confirm the loss of...Posted by 
    Charleston County Public Library on 
    Thursday, 18 June 2015


 Prior to official confirmation that she was one of the victims Malcolm Graham, her brother and a former North Carolina senator, issued a statement confirming she had been killed.  Tywanza Sanders   The 26-year-old had only recently graduated from Allen University in 2014. He was described to Mashable by the university's vice president of institutional advancement as a "warm and helpful spirit".  Flavia Eldemire said he was also a "quiet, well-known student who was committed to his education".  Myra Thompson  Ms Thompson, 59, was a pastor and the wife of Rev Anthony Thompson, vicar of the Holy Trinity REC Church in Charleston.  Ethel Lance  The 70-year-old grandmother had retired but recently worked as a church janitor. Her grandson Jon Quil Lance told the Post and Courier he felt "lost" and described his "hardworking" grandmother.  "I’m lost, I’m lost. Granny was the heart of the family."  "She’s a Christian, hardworking; I could call my granny for anything. I don’t have anyone else like that." 

SHE HAS A NAME: Ethel Lee Lance, worked at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston for 30 years. She was killed last night. pic.twitter.com/7OHjsnhD8f— Michael Skolnik (@MichaelSkolnik) 
  June 18, 2015
 Susie Jackson  The Post and Courier reported that she was a long-time church member aged 87. She was also related to Ethel Lance.  Rev Daniel Simmons  The 74-year-old retired pastor was the only victim not to die at the scene. He died after he was taken to hospital.  It was reported that the reverend attended the church where the shootings took place twice a week.  DePayne Middleton Doctor   The 49-year-old was director of a community development grant programme in Charleston but retired in 2005.  J Elliott Summey, Charleston council chairman, said her work involved helping others.  "In a very big way she was doing very human kinds of things in her role in government for others," he said. 










Follow @telegraphnews


































Top news galleries





Princess Charlotte's christening: official photos




 




The official pictures of Princess Charlotte's christening by the celebrated 
  photographer are released - plus all the other best pictures from a glorious 
  day at Sandringham






40 great quotes about marriage




 


 Culture


As Married at First Sight begins, Martin Chilton looks at quotes about 
  matrimony from Socrates to Sinatra


Comments






Roger Federer's top 10 bust-ups




 




In pics: As he prepares to face long-term rival Andy Murray at 
  Wimbledon, we look at the times when even the Swiss superstar lost his 
  cool...


Comments






Queues, fights and chaos in London




 




In pics: Tube shuts down completely for the first time in 13 years 


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




Underwater basil, a gull stealing a fish and the Pope in South America 






Will and Kate join Beckhams at Wimbledon




 




Celebrities relax as they watch the action in SW19






Budget 2015: winners and losers




 




The Budget winners and losers at a glance 


Comments






Banksy holidays - the Greek crisis in graffiti




 




The Greek public voted against austerity in its general election in January 
  and in the referendum in early July. Emotions are running high and the 
  locals are expressing their feelings on the walls of their cities.






SDCC2015 begins




 




In pics: Cosplayers descend on San Diego as Comic-con begins


Comments






Celebrity Sightings




 




Starring: Cressida Bonas, Cara Delevingne and Ella Eyre









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»










Britons told to leave Tunisia amid attack fears











#TubeStrike: How the internet reacted











Ducks invade pitch during friendly











Murray v Federer - their rivalry by numbers











'My dad doesn't want to be in Syria with IS'











Dramatic high-speed car chase



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 









            Loading
        



































News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Asa Bennett: How well off are London's tube drivers and why are they striking?
Tube strike update: Travel chaos expected all day Thursday in London: live
Homeless boy using McDonald’s light to do homework proves inspirational
Dan Hodges: Their Budget response was beyond parody  - Labour still haven't got a clue
Armed police swoop on suburban sex dungeon after noise complaints




US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
Rhino poachers shot dead in Kruger National Park
Second heatwave could be hottest ever
Heatwave: staff should be sent home if workplace gets hotter than 30C - Labour MP




Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93 - latest reaction
Skegness fairground ride collapses
How two people found love thanks to Mad Max
US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Summer Recipes




 




                                Heston Blumenthal's perfect summer cocktail recipe



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 



































