Twitter users seek justice after Charleston church shooting - NY Daily News

Twitter users seek justice after Charleston church shooting - NY Daily News




 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S.     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs     


  
  









Twitter users demand justice after racially-motivated Charleston, S.C., AME Church shooting leaves 9 dead

                                BY
                                                                    
                                        Candace Amos
                                    

NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Thursday, June 18, 2015, 9:49 AM

A
A
A







Share this URL











     Wade Spees/AP Police talk to a man outside the Emanuel AME Church following a shooting Wednesday, June 17, 2015, in Charleston, S.C. (Wade Spees/The Post And Courier via AP)    Charleston Police Department Charleston police release survellience photos of suspect in hate crime massacre at black church in Charleston, South Carolina on June 17, 2015.    Previous Next      Enlarge  

	The church is usually a retreat for solace, prayer, and reflection, but on Wednesday night, in Charleston, S.C., a cold-hearted killer made it a place to unleash his fury.

	The FBI is searching for a white man in his 20s, who sat through an hour of service at the Mother Emanuel AME Church, before killing six women and three men, leaving behind a lone witness to spread his evil message.

S.C. PAPER APOLOGIZES FOR GUN SHOP AD ATOP CHURCH MASSACRE

	"You have to go," witnesses told Sylvia Johnson, the cousin of slain Pastor Clementa Pinckney, who was also a state senator.

              View Gallery  Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church re-opens for services  



	"He just said, 'I have to do it. You rape our women, and you're taking over our country, and you have to go." she relayed on MSNBC.

2016 CANDIDATES REACT TO SOUTH CAROLINA SHOOTING

	It didn't take long for the FBI to identify the incident as a hate crime, with Twitter users standing firmly behind it.

	“This may have been the act of an individual, but the #CharlestonShooting is the result of this country’s structural hatred of Africans,” tweeted @AfricanaCarr.

FULL COVERAGE OF CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE

	Another Twitter user aimed to magnify the nation's inherent obssesion with guns.

	“How many mass shootings/ massacres does it take to change #Politicians minds about this “gun culture”?,” tweeted @rulajebreal.

	See more reactions from Twitter users below.

  Prayers up for the families effected by the #CharlestonShooting it's a sad day when you can't even worship in peace.— AT EAZE (@AtEaze808) June 18, 2015
 

  Can't wear hoodies
Can't play with toy guns
Can't go to swimming pools
Can't listen to music
Can't worship in church

#CharlestonShooting— Nerdy Wonka (@NerdyWonka) June 18, 2015
 
  sadly we live in a world where instead of teaching kids to say please and thank you, we have to teach them to play dead #CharlestonShooting— joshua (@cuddlesandcoke) June 18, 2015
 
  In the words of my mother and grandmother, "The devil is busy." #CharlestonShooting— #BlackLivesMatter (@BroderickGreer) June 18, 2015
 
  If every Muslim criminal is like al Quaeda/ISIS, than in wake of #CharlestonShooting let’s talk about history of lynchings & white supremacy— Sally Kohn (@sallykohn) June 18, 2015
 
  “he must be mentally ill bc he killed 9 ppl” logic is so ridiculous. mental illness doesn’t excuse someone’s actions! #CharlestonShooting— Franchesca Ramsey (@chescaleigh) June 18, 2015
 
  The #CharlestonShooting is terrorism. I say this as a scholar of white supremacy and the Klan. White people can be terrorists too.— Kelly J. Baker (@kelly_j_baker) June 18, 2015
 
  Was already weary. Was already heavy hearted. Was already tired.
Where can we be safe? Where can we be free? Where can we be black?— solange knowles (@solangeknowles) June 18, 2015
 
  Somebody knows this kid. They need to turn him in now, or at least provide a name. #CharlestonShooting— deray mckesson (@deray) June 18, 2015
 
  If you even try to justify a hate filled crazy person shooting people in a church, you're just as crazy and hate filled #CharlestonShooting— Andrea (@AndreaNimchuk) June 18, 2015
 
  #CharlestonShooting

Black shooter > Gangster
Muslim shooter > Terrorists
White shooter > mentally ill— Zeus (@ZeusHoeless) June 18, 2015
  camos@nydailynews.com
   Related Stories  Obama wants action on gun violence after Charleston shooting       Suspected Charleston church gunman Dylann Storm Roof caught       Church massacre victim Clementa Pinckney mourned across U.S.     
Tags:

charleston church massacre
                                ,                            

dylann roof




 




 




 








 

 
 
 

Comments

Post A Comment
[ Discussion Guidelines]

To Post Comments Sign In

 




   

  
   

  

  

  
   

   

   

  Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   Ex-Army major, wife convicted of abusing 3 N.J. foster kids     2   World's scariest haunted house has 24,000-person wait list     3   Florida man breaks ex-wife's sex toy in half: cops     4   Subway pitchman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child porn bust     5   Dad charged after tossing baby into Conn. river: police     6   Fla. woman took selfies as she had sex with pit bull: cops     7   N.J. teens run down geese in gruesome video, face charges     8   Grizzly bear uses 50-pound rock to shatter Minn. zoo glass      9   Man mocked alligator before fatal attack in Texas bayou     10   SEE IT: Woman’s video about N.C. shark attacks goes viral         1   Plane crash in Montana cemetery kills seven kids     2   SEE IT: Black bear walks up to front door of home     3   Tech Thursday: Tinder verification, 'Star Trek' communicator     4   CNN’s Sanjay Gupta under fire over report about false claims     5   David Geffen’s porn star pal feared the billionaire     6   Conn. dad texted ex before throwing baby off bridge: police     7   UPS driver caught on camera kicking small dog, pushing owner     8   Geoffrey Zakarian drops out of Donald Trump’s new hotel     9   SEE IT: Great white shark gets photobombed by another     10   Facebook rolls out new controls for News Feed        

   


News Video




 


PC Richard and Son

 













Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


    
  





