Church massacre victim Clementa Pinckney mourned across U.S. - NY Daily News

Church massacre victim Clementa Pinckney mourned across U.S. - NY Daily News




 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S.     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs     


  
  









Clementa Pinckney, pastor and state senator killed in S.C. massacre, remembered as gentle man with ‘Barry White voice’

                                BY
                                                                    
                                        Sasha Goldstein
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Corky Siemaszko
                                    

NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Published: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 8:46 AM
Updated: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 5:22 PM

A
A
A







Share this URL











     

	He was a pastor blessed with a “Barry White” voice who served both his church — and the state of South Carolina.

	The Rev. Clementa Pinckney was identified as one of the nine people murdered by a racist gunman inside a historic black Emanuel AME Church in Charleston.

	But Pinckney was also a long-serving Democratic state senator. And he was remembered Thursday as both a good shepherd to his flock — and a statesman who worked tirelessly for his constituents.

NINE KILLED AT CHARLESTON BLACK CHURCH IN HATE CRIME     S.C. SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS/HANDOUT/EPA South Carolina state Sen. Clementa Pinckney, 41, was among those shot dead Wednesday night inside a Charleston church.   

	“He never had anything bad to say about anybody, even when I thought he should,” State House Minority leader Todd Rutherford (D-Columbia) told the Associated Press. “He was always out doing work either for his parishioners or his constituents. He touched everybody.”

	Pinckney’s Republican rivals also chimed-in with praise.

	“He was the most kind, gentle man in the Senate, and I am not just saying that now,” state Sen. Katrina Shealy (R-Lexington) told The State newspaper in Columbia. “He was quiet ... until he spoke with that beautiful Barry White voice.”    HANDOUT/REUTERS Authorities say this man opened fire and killed nine people inside a Charleston, S.C., church on Wednesday. Dylann Roof was arrested Thursday in North Carolina.   

EDITORIAL: DYLANN ROOF IS A HOMEGROWN AMERICAN TERRORIST

	In the aftermath of the videotaped killing of a black man named Walter Scott by a white cop in North Charleston, Pinckney was instrumental in pushing forward a bill that would require all South Carolina police officers to be equipped with body cameras.

	“It was his speech on the Senate floor about togetherness and belief that we can do better that brought the body-camera bill to passage and garnered largely bipartisan support,” State Sen. Marlon Kimpson, D-Charleston, told The State Kimpson said. “He was a moral leader of the Senate, and when he spoke, people listened.”               View Gallery  Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church re-opens for services  

	Kent Williams, Pinckney’s cousin and a colleague in the state senate, said the slain pastor had returned to the church after putting in a full day’s work at the legislature. He said he didn’t appear to have an enemy in the world.

EMANUEL AME CHURCH HAS LONG HISTORY, TIES TO SLAVE REBELLION 

	“You’d never hear someone say a harsh word about him,” Williams, a Democrat from Marion, said. “It’s devastating that someone would go into God’s house and commit such a crime. It’s just beyond my imagination, I just can’t comprehend this. It tells the world that we can’t be safe anywhere anymore.”   Just received a call from President Obama. He conveyed his condolences to Sen Pinckney's family, congregation, & the people of Charleston.— Todd Rutherford (@RepRutherford) June 18, 2015
 

	Pinckney, 41, a married father of two, was leading a Bible study session on Wednesday evening when he became the first victim of 21-year-old Dylann Roof, police said.

	“He was a very caring and competent pastor and he was a very brave man," Rev. Joseph Darby, of Beaufort AME Church, told MSNBC. "And brave men sometimes die very difficult deaths."

	The Rev. Al Sharpton decried the violence and recalled standing beside Pinckney after the Scott shooting.    Facebook Kent Williams, Pinckney's cousin, said the pastor was a great guy loved by everybody.   

CHARLESTON CHURCH KILLER WENT ON RACIST RANT BEFORE SHOOTING

	"What has our society come to when people in a prayer meeting in the sacred halls of a church can be shot in what is deemed a possible hate crime?" Sharpton said. "We must do what we can to apprehend the killer and we must support the families involved in this tragedy. Demagoguery, increasing tension and talk of violence will only make a mockery of what we face."

	Pinckney was born in Beaufort and grew up in nearby Jasper County, one of the six counties he served as a senator for the state’s 45th District. He “answered the call to preach” at age 13 and “received his first appointment to pastor” at 18, according to a biography on the church website.      Wade Spees/AP Police talk to a man outside the Emanuel AME Church following a shooting Wednesday.    Will Whitson / WIS10 Pinckney's seat at the South Carolina senate was covered in black cloth Thursday morning.    Jeffrey Collins/AP State Sen. Clementa Pinckney, right, talks to a supporter in 2012.    YouTube South Carolina State Senator Clementa C. Pinckney speaks at the Mother Emanuel AME Church in a video posted earlier this year.    Previous Next        Enlarge  

CHARLESTON PHOTOGRAPHER ARRESTED NEAR CHURCH SHOOTING

	In 1996, Pinckney at age 23 became the youngest member of the state House of Representatives. Four years later, he made the leap to the state senate.

	On Thursday, his desk at the State Senate was draped with a black cloth in his memory.     

With News Wire Services

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.  csiemaszko@nydailynews.com
   Related Stories    Suspected Charleston church gunman Dylann Storm Roof caught          Charleston photographer arrested near church shooting          Nine killed at Charleston black church in hate crime      
Tags:

charleston church massacre
                                ,                            

dylann roof




 




 




 








 

 
 
 

Comments

Post A Comment
[ Discussion Guidelines]

To Post Comments Sign In

 




   


Crime Video




  
   

  

  

  
   

   

  COLD CASES  & TRUE CRIME        Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray A PECULIAR ITEM recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers.        Rooney's wife slain by lover Carolyn Mitchell  was one of those girls who seemed destined to make headlines. And did she ever.
        Justice Story: John du Pont The 1856 British Guiana one-cent magenta is a tiny octagonal red inch-wide stamp. Philatelic experts say that when it is auctioned at Sotheby’s in New York on June 17, this singular postal artifact is expected to fetch something around $20 million, the largest price ever paid for a stamp. By weight and size, it may be the most valuable object in the world. The stamp is just one souvenir of the strange legacy of John E. du Pont, a man who had everything money could buy but threw it away in one moment of blind violence.        Justice Story: Vampire king At more than 300 pounds and with dreadlocks cascading past his waist, Marcus Wesson, 57, was not what people generally think of when they hear the word “vampire.”        Justice Story: Deadly mother-in-law A Chicago undertaker summoned to a physician’s office took one look at a corpse on an exam table and diagnosed what should have been clear to the doctor.      Previous Next     

  Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   Florida man breaks ex-wife's sex toy in half: cops     2   Subway pitchman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child porn bust     3   Dad charged after tossing baby into Conn. river: police     4   Fla. woman took selfies as she had sex with pit bull: cops     5   N.J. teens run down geese in gruesome video, face charges     6   Ga. girl, 2, left with dead pregnant mother after murder     7   DNA links retired Calif. postal worker to 1974 murder: DA     8   Ohio woman arrested for calling 911 about Chinese food order     9   Aspiring entertainer shot in back of her head in Hollywood     10   Ariz. woman with $39K in heroin padding her bra busted         1   New Jersey man murdered 7 people in span of weeks: officials     2   Conn. dad texted ex before throwing baby off bridge: police     3   Tenn. bank executive, family held at gunpoint in bank heist     4   Alabama suspect chased by bull while trying to flee police     5   N.J. teacher ‘propositioned’ students for sex: prosecutor     6   Fla. couple killed in home as 5 kids were inside: cops     7   Ariz. woman with $39K in heroin padding her bra busted     8   DNA links retired Calif. postal worker to 1974 murder: DA     9   Woman whom Bill Cosby admitted drugging: 'It's not over yet'     10   Ex-Baltimore cop labeled 'rat' after police brutality claim        

   

 


PC Richard and Son

 













Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


    
  





