Nine killed at Charleston black church in hate crime - NY Daily News

Nine killed at Charleston black church in hate crime - NY Daily News




 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S.     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs     


  
  









Nine shot dead at black church in Charleston, South Carolina, in suspected hate crime; white suspect remains at large: cops

                                BY
                                                                    
                                        Jason Silverstein
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Reuven Blau
                                    

NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Published: Wednesday, June 17, 2015, 10:49 PM
Updated: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 6:32 AM

A
A
A







Share this URL











   Charleston Police Department Police released this image of the suspect who is at large.   





	A gunman was at large early Thursday after a prayer service became a massacre at a historic black church in South Carolina the night before.

Nine people were shot dead inside Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston Wednesday night. Police are calling the attack a hate crime.

EMANUEL AME CHURCH HAS LONG HISTORY, TIES TO SLAVE REBELLION

	The gunman — described as a white male between 21 and 25 — sat down at the service before standing and opening fire, the Post and Courierreported. He spared one woman so she could tell everyone what happened, Charleston NAACP President Dot Scott told the paper after speaking with her family.

	“This is a tragedy that no community should have to experience,” Charles Police Chief Gregory Mullen told media early Thursday while confirming the fatalitiesat the Mother Emanuel AME Church. “It is senseless and unfathomable that somebody in today’s society would walk into a church and take their lives.”

CHURCH MASSACRE VICTIM CLEMENTA PINCKNEY MOURNED ACROSS U.S.

	The massacre is one of worst mass shootings in the state's history.
     @mikeliggett via Twitter Nine people were shot and killed by a white suspect at the Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, S.C., Wednesday night.    Wade Spees/AP An armed police officer moves up Calhoun St. following a shooting at a church there.    David Goldman/AP Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley, right, stands next to Police Chief Gregory Mullen as he addresses the media down the street from the Emanuel AME Church early Thursday following a Wednesday night shooting in Charleston.    David Goldman/AP Police close off a section of Calhoun St. near the church.    Previous Next        Enlarge  

	Charleston police released surveillance video of the suspect and hit getaway car. The five-foor-9 gunman has sandy blond hair and was wearing a gray sweatshirt, blue jeans and boots and sped away from the massacre scene in a blue car.

FULL COVERAGE OF CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE



	“We have no reason to believe that he is not in the Charleston area,” Mullen said at a Thursday morning press conference, adding that officers are looking across the east coast for the gunman.

	Helicopters hovered over downtown Charleston overnight and officers moved door to door through the area with guns drawn during the overnight manhunt.
     David Goldman/AP Worshippers gather to pray in a hotel parking lot across the street from the scene of the shooting.    David Goldman/AP A man looks on as a group of people arrive inquiring about a shooting at a church across the street.    Wade Spees/AP A man kneels across the street from where police gather outside the Emanuel AME Church.    Previous Next       Enlarge  

	Police responded to the church carnage around 9 p.m. Hours later, authorities pushed back members of the media while investigating a possible bomb threat, which was eventually cleared. Authorities denied local media reports that nearby residents were evacuated.

EDITORIAL: DYLANN ROOF IS A HOMEGROWN AMERICAN TERRORIST

	"This is a scary and sad moment for the community," Pastor John Paul Brown, who heads the Mount Zion AME Church four blocks from where the shooting happened, told the Daily News Wednesday night.

	Eight of the victims died in the church and the ninth died in a hospital, police said.

              View Gallery  Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church re-opens for services  



	Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley said speaking to the families of victims was the most “heartbreaking scene I’ve witnessed in my life.”

	“This is one hateful person that did these dastardly deeds,” Riley said of the unidentified suspect.

	Police did not identify any of the victims Thursday morning.

	The church’s pastor, Democratic State Sen. Clementa Pinckney, is among the dead, according to friends and colleagues. Authorities have not confirmed his death, butState House Minority leader Todd Rutherford told The Associated Press Pinckney was killed.
   South Carolina Legislature Democratic State Sen. Clementa C. Pinckney is the church's pastor. He is believed to have been in the church during the shooting, according to local media.   

	The Rev. Al Sharpton tweeted a tribute to Pinckney after midnight.

	“Rev. Clements (sic) Pinckney, a SC legislator is among the 9 killed in SC church. I am reminded that he helped lead our prayer vigil for Scott,” Sharpton wrote, referring to Walter Scott, a black man fatally shot by a white officer in North Charleston last April.

	Mother Emanuel calls itself “the oldest AME church in the south” on its website and its Holy City history dates back to 1816, according to the Post and Courier. The church holds a Bible study session every Wednesday at 6 p.m., its website says.

	The mass shooting drew stunned responses from political leaders around the state and nationwide.
   Rev. Al Sharpton/via Twitter Al Sharpton tweeted about Pinckney's death, which has not been confirmed by authorities.   

	“Charleston, you're in our thoughts tonight,” New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio tweeted.

	South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley wrote on Facebook: “While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we'll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another. Please join us in lifting up the victims and their families with our love and prayers.”

     



	Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush announced soon after the shooting he is canceling a Charleston campaign stop that was scheduled for Thursday.

	"Our thoughts and prayers are with the individuals and families affected by the tragic events in Charleston," he tweeted.
  Dramatic pic by @MatthewFortner of search for gunman in downtown Charleston. #chsnews pic.twitter.com/h7vFO5sVK3— Andrew Knapp (@offlede) June 18, 2015
 
  Police have pushed us back to Meeting and Calhoun for a bomb threat. Calhoun in front of the church is quiet pic.twitter.com/kX7E4RkpXH— Matt Alba (@mattalbaWCBD) June 18, 2015
 
  Heart is breaking for Charleston and South Carolina. My prayers are with Emanuel AME and Pastor Pinckney.— Tim Scott (@SenatorTimScott) June 18, 2015
 

  Johnson said he is numb right now, was a friend of Pinckney, walked with him after #WalterScott shooting #chsnews #CharlestonShooting— Melissa Boughton (@mboughtonPC) June 18, 2015
 
  Our thoughts and prayers are with the individuals and families affected by the tragic events in Charleston.— Jeb Bush (@JebBush) June 18, 2015
 
  Charleston, you're in our thoughts tonight.— Bill de Blasio (@BilldeBlasio) June 18, 2015
 
  Ambulances and police everywhere downtown #chsnews pic.twitter.com/5d2Srgigui— Melissa Boughton (@mboughtonPC) June 18, 2015
 













With News Wire Services

Follow@jaysunsilver

ON A MOBILE DEVICE?WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.

With Meg Wagner, Rachelle Blidner jsilverstein@nydailynews.com
   Related Stories  Church massacre victim Clementa Pinckney mourned across U.S.       Church massacre victim Clementa Pinckney mourned across U.S.       Charleston church shooting coverage criticized as racist     
Tags:

charleston church massacre
                                ,                            

al sharpton
                                ,                            

bill de blasio
                                ,                            

jeb bush




 




 




 








 

 
 
 

Comments

Post A Comment
[ Discussion Guidelines]

To Post Comments Sign In

 




   

  
   

  

  

  
   

   

   

  Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   Ex-Army major, wife convicted of abusing 3 N.J. foster kids     2   World's scariest haunted house has 24,000-person wait list     3   Florida man breaks ex-wife's sex toy in half: cops     4   Subway pitchman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child porn bust     5   Dad charged after tossing baby into Conn. river: police     6   Fla. woman took selfies as she had sex with pit bull: cops     7   N.J. teens run down geese in gruesome video, face charges     8   Grizzly bear uses 50-pound rock to shatter Minn. zoo glass      9   Man mocked alligator before fatal attack in Texas bayou     10   SEE IT: Woman’s video about N.C. shark attacks goes viral         1   Plane crash in Montana cemetery kills seven kids     2   New Jersey man murdered 7 people in span of weeks: officials     3   SEE IT: Black bear walks up to front door of home     4   Tech Thursday: Tinder verification, 'Star Trek' communicator     5   CNN’s Sanjay Gupta under fire over report about false claims     6   David Geffen’s porn star pal feared the billionaire     7   Conn. dad texted ex before throwing baby off bridge: police     8   UPS driver caught on camera kicking small dog, pushing owner     9   Geoffrey Zakarian drops out of Donald Trump’s new hotel     10   SEE IT: Great white shark gets photobombed by another        

   


News Video




 


PC Richard and Son

 













Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


    
  





