Charleston church shooting coverage criticized as racist - NY Daily News

Charleston church shooting coverage criticized as racist - NY Daily News




 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S.     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs     


  
  









Charleston church shooting coverage criticized as racist because suspect described as ‘loner white man’ — not domestic terrorist 

                                BY
                                                                    
                                        Sasha Goldstein
                                    



NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Thursday, June 18, 2015, 3:41 PM

A
A
A







Share this URL











    Twitter users complained that Dylann Roof, 21, wasn't described as a terrorist, even though he is suspected of a possible hate crime in which he allegedly killed nine people at a church.   

	Where are the white leaders?

	Outraged Twitter users jumped online to denounce the hypocrisy of the coverage and slant of the Charleston church shooting, allegedly perpetrated by a white hatemonger who massacred black worshippers at a historic African-American sanctuary.   What the media won't say tomorrow re: #Charleston:
1) This was domestic terrorism
2) Gun violence is out of control
3) Black lives matter— Robert Mitchell (@RLM_3) June 18, 2015
 

FULL COVERAGE OF CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE   In which white community was he radicalised?

Are there more white terror cells?

When will moderate white leaders act?

#CharlestonShooting— Kon Karapanagiotidis (@Kon__K) June 18, 2015
 

	“Where are white leaders? Why is there no leadership in the white community?” wrote black Twitter user Justin McBride, who hashtagged his message #CharlestonShooting. “Figured I’d ask, since they always ask us.”    Matthew Fortner/AP A Charleston police officer searches for a shooting suspect outside the Emanuel AME Church, in downtown Charleston, S.C., on Wednesday.   

	The mass shooting by a white perpetrator comes after a rash of recent high-profile police killings involving black people. In those instances, Twitter users wrote, media commentators demanded a response from black leaders like the Rev. Al Sharpton to make sense of the tragedy. And if the incident involved rioting or rule breaking by black suspects, commentators looked at broken households or rap music as potential “causes.”   Always relevant .... #CharlestonShooting #AMEshooting h/t @WritersofColour pic.twitter.com/aL80QeqCPo— tamikabrown (@thafyneprynt) June 18, 2015
 

DYLANN ROOF WORE WHITE SUPREMACIST FLAG PATCHES ON HIS JACKET   Where was his father? What kind of music did he listen to? https://t.co/nMDLyyHIJs— Hey Nikki! Hey Nikki (@HollyGoNightly1) June 18, 2015
 

	“Where are the white fathers? (nvm...they are buying guns for their sons to murder our families, pastors, leaders,” wrote Twitter user “Stacia.”   He is a terrorist/murderer of 9 Black people. But because he's white the media won't shame him as they do Blackness. pic.twitter.com/GkoDugwysQ— Dr. X (@TheBlackGuyX) June 18, 2015
 

	Others pointed at cable TV news channels like Fox News, which on Thursday morning described the massacre as a “war on faith” and religion — not on race, despite officials calling the bloodbath a hate crime.    David Goldman/AP Lisa Doctor joins a prayer circle early Thursday down the street from Emanuel AME Church after a shooting Wednesday night in Charleston.   

	South Carolina, several people pointed out, still flies the Confederate flag above its state house in Columbia, where suspect Dylann Roof was from.   Are whites inherently violent? Where are the white leaders? If they dont like the people here why dont they go back to where they came from?— Juice Jones (@Buddy_Blvck) June 18, 2015
 

	“The headline on the breaking news report about the Charleston shooting was an additional example of how the White Racial Frame dominates news coverage,” wrote Chauncey Devega, who contributes to Salon and runs a blog, “We Are Respectable Negroes.” “MSNBC’s screen read ‘Police searching for 21-year-old suspect.’ He was not described as ‘white’: the American news media is much more likely to racially mark black and brown suspects in crimes, and to include their racial description (or religious/ethnic as in the ubiquitous ‘Arab’ or ‘Muslim’ ‘terrorist.’”)    David Goldman/AP Investigators work outside the Emanuel AME Church early Thursday.   

DYLANN ROOF BRAGGED ABOUT PLANS 'TO KILL A BUNCH OF PEOPLE'   Let it sink in. White dude walks into black church & murdered 9 people during bible study last night. Real thuggish. http://t.co/R3nxJroE3F— Talib Kweli Greene (@TalibKweli) June 18, 2015
 

	Devega continued: “Once and again, white privilege is the power to be the ultimate individual where one’s actions and behavior rarely if ever reflects on the collective character of white people en masse. By comparison, Black and brown Americans, Muslims, Arabs and the Other more generally are routinely subjected to group punishment and demonization.”   The black community steadily has to get up & talk to people about violence in their communities. White leaders--your turn. Face it. Fix it.— Karlie Hustle (@THEkarliehustle) June 18, 2015
 

	The National Rifle Association, meanwhile, tweeted nothing about the tragedy, instead sending out links to the NRA National Firearms Museum and Shooting Illustrated magazine.   @NRAblog @NRA pic.twitter.com/3uK5iftMmF— Scott Rose (@ScottNYCRose) June 18, 2015
 

	South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, who said his niece, Emily, once was in the same eighth grade class with Roof, described the suspect as “quiet, strange, very unsocial and everyone thought he was on drugs.”      BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/Getty Images People visit a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church on Thursday. Cops arrested the 21-year-old white gunman suspected of killing nine people at a prayer meeting in one of the nation's oldest black churches in Charleston, an attack being probed as a hate crime.    BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS Mourners gather to pay their respects outside Morris Brown AME Church during a vigil the day after a mass shooting in Charleston.    TIM KIMZEY/AP Keith McDaniel, pastor of Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church, is surrounded by others in prayer for the victims of Wednesday's shooting at Emanuel AME Church.    Previous Next       Enlarge  

	Graham, in an interview with CNN, said he didn’t think race was relevant to the murder.      

EMANUEL AME CHURCH HAS LONG HISTORY, TIES TO SLAVE REBELLION

	"I just think he was one of these whacked out kids. I don't think it's anything broader than that," Graham told CNN. "It's about a young man who is obviously twisted."

	"No one at home [in South Carolina] believes this represents us. We don't want to be judged by him," Graham said.

	In a statement late Wednesday, Gov. Nikki Haley wrote that her family was “praying for the victims and families touched by tonight’s senseless tragedy.”

EDITORIAL: DYLANN ROOF IS A HOMEGROWN AMERICAN TERRORIST

	“While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we'll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another,” the Republican South Carolina governor said.

	Tim Scott, a black South Carolina senator, said his “heart is breaking for Charleston and South Carolina tonight.”

	“While we unfortunately know that hate enters some people’s hearts, I also know this: We can and will work every single day to replace hate with love, pain with kindness, and hospitality with good will,” the freshman Republican senator said in a statement.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE. sgoldstein@nydailynews.com
   Related Stories    Church massacre victim Clementa Pinckney mourned across U.S.          Editorial: Dylann Roof a homegrown American terrorist          Emanuel AME Church has long history, ties to slave rebellion          Obama wants action on gun violence after Charleston shooting          Suspected Charleston church gunman Dylann Storm Roof caught          Dylann Roof's friend took gun during 'crazy' bigoted rant      
Tags:

dylann roof
                                ,                            

charleston church massacre
                                ,                            

lindsey graham




 




 




 








 

 
 
 

Comments

Post A Comment
[ Discussion Guidelines]

To Post Comments Sign In

 




   

  
   

  

  

  
   

   

   

  Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   Ex-Army major, wife convicted of abusing 3 N.J. foster kids     2   World's scariest haunted house has 24,000-person wait list     3   Florida man breaks ex-wife's sex toy in half: cops     4   Subway pitchman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child porn bust     5   Dad charged after tossing baby into Conn. river: police     6   Fla. woman took selfies as she had sex with pit bull: cops     7   N.J. teens run down geese in gruesome video, face charges     8   Grizzly bear uses 50-pound rock to shatter Minn. zoo glass      9   Man mocked alligator before fatal attack in Texas bayou     10   SEE IT: Woman’s video about N.C. shark attacks goes viral         1   Plane crash in Montana cemetery kills seven kids     2   New Jersey man murdered 7 people in span of weeks: officials     3   SEE IT: Black bear walks up to front door of home     4   Tech Thursday: Tinder verification, 'Star Trek' communicator     5   CNN’s Sanjay Gupta under fire over report about false claims     6   David Geffen’s porn star pal feared the billionaire     7   Conn. dad texted ex before throwing baby off bridge: police     8   UPS driver caught on camera kicking small dog, pushing owner     9   Geoffrey Zakarian drops out of Donald Trump’s new hotel     10   SEE IT: Great white shark gets photobombed by another        

   


News Video




 


PC Richard and Son

 













Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


    
  





