Violent History: Attacks on Black Churches - The New York Times 



Violent History: Attacks on Black Churches - The New York Times







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content









U.S.|Violent History: Attacks on Black Churches
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1MPzPCB




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement








                            U.S.                        





 
Violent History: Attacks on Black Churches


JUNE 18, 2015
Related Article











The killing of nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., is among a long list of attacks targeting predominantly black churches in the United States. A number of past cases involved the burning of churches by Ku Klux Klan members. Here is a selection of those attacks:










Photo









The burned out Macedonia Church of God in Christ in Springfield, Mass., in November 2008.



Credit

Ángel Franco/The New York Times




Nov. 5, 2008


Springfield, Mass. 


Macedonia Church of God in Christ


The predominantly black church, which was under construction, was set on fire shortly after the election of President Obama. Of the three white men  charged,  two pleaded guilty and a third was convicted and sentenced to 13 years in prison.


Sources: The New York Times; Associated Press





Photo









Investigators searched for clues in the rubble of the Inner City Church in Knoxville, Tenn., on Jan. 9, 1996.



Credit

J. Miles Cary/Knoxville News-Sentinel, via Associated Press




Jan. 8, 1996


Knoxville, Tenn.


Inner City Baptist Church


A fire destroyed the sanctuary of the church and racial slurs were painted on the walls. Molotov cocktails, cans of kerosene and gunpowder were discovered in the rubble.


Sources: The New York Times; Associated Press




Feb. 1, 1996


Louisiana


Four Churches


A group of churches within a six-mile radius — Cypress Grove Baptist, St. Paul's Free Baptist and Thomas Chapel Benevolent Society in East Baton Rouge as well as Sweet Home Baptist in Baker — were set on fire on the anniversary of the sit-in in Greensboro, N.C.


Sources: Emory University; Department of Justice




June 21, 1995


Manning, S.C.


Macedonia Baptist Church


Four former members of the Ku Klux Klan set fire to the church, one of several burned by arsonists in the mid-1990s. A fire was set the day before at the Mount Zion A.M.E. Church in Greeleyville, S.C. Macedonia Baptist was awarded $37.8 million in a decision against the Klan. A jury believed the Klan's rhetoric motivated the men to set the fire. The fire was one of dozens at predominantly black churches across the South that were investigated as arson. A list compiled by The Associated Press is here.


Sources: The New York Times; The Associated Press





Photo









The burned station wagon of three missing civil rights workers — including Michael Schwerner — found in a swampy area near Philadelphia, Miss., June 24, 1964.



Credit

Jack Thornell/Associated Press




June 16, 1964


Longdale, Miss.


Mount Zion A.M.E. Church


The Ku Klux Klan beat parishioners as they were leaving a church meeting. The Klan's intended target was a civil rights activist, Michael Schwerner, who was not there. The wood-framed church, a historic safe haven for slaves, was burned down. On June 21, Mr. Schwerner and two other civil rights workers drove to visit the burned church. Afterward, they were pulled over, arrested and jailed. After their release, they were beaten and killed. The mysterious disappearance and murder of the three men were detailed in the film "Mississippi Burning."


Sources: "Crimes and Trials of the Century" by Frankie Y. Bailey  and Steven Chermak; University of Missouri-Kansas City





Photo









The family of Carole Robertson, a 14-year-old girl killed in the bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church, at her funeral in Birmingham, Ala., Sept. 17, 1963.



Credit

Horace Cort/Associated Press




September 15, 1963


Birmingham, Ala.


16th Street Church


The Ku Klux Klan set off a bomb under the steps of the church, killing four young girls and injuring more than 20 other members of the church. The 16th Street Baptist Church served as a civil rights meeting place in the 1960s and a center for the African-American community in Birmingham. The attack brought national and international attention to the struggle for civil rights in Alabama. 


Sources: National Park Service; 16thstreetbaptist.org












More on NYTimes.com








The Shootings in a Charleston Church
JUNE 18, 2015









Church Massacre Suspect Held as Charleston Grieves
JUNE 18, 2015














                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












