Lightning may have caused South Carolina church fire, FBI says | Q13 FOX News 
Lightning may have caused South Carolina church fire, FBI says | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Replay: Q13FOX News at 5 

Q13 FOX TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 60°
High 85°





Fri


					60°  80°
					


Sat


					59°  74°
					


Sun


					60°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Lightning may have caused South Carolina church fire, FBI says

Posted 12:15 PM, July 1, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePinterestEmail 



GREELEYVILLE, N.C. — Federal investigators suspect lightning may have caused the fire at Mount Zion African Methodist Episcopal Church in Greeleyville, South Carolina, senior officials in the FBI said Wednesday morning.
The FBI has been working with the National Weather Service to determine whether the heavy storms in the area contributed to the fire. A forensics report of lightning strikes by CNN meteorologists shows four strikes occurred in the immediate vicinity of the church, all at 7:18 p.m. ET Tuesday night.
The officials said investigators found no accelerants at the fire scene — an indicator of arson.
The Greeleyville fire drew attention because at least five other black church fires have occurred since the racist killings of nine people in a Charleston church.
The Greeleyville church has burned before. In 1995, two members of the Ku Klux Klan set fire to its original structure.
When the current one was ready for dedication in 1996, then-President Bill Clinton visited the small town to call on the nation to unite around race.
By early Wednesday, only the brick walls were left of that second building. The flames completely gutted the interior and collapsed the roof. Their remains smoldered as investigators began their work.
ATF, FBI investigate
About 50 firefighters, local police, the FBI, five agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) are investigating. The sheriff’s office and state police are also pitching in.
“Anytime there is a house of worship involved in a fire, ATF is automatically assigned to look into the cause,” said agency Special Agent Tom Mangan.
Authorities said earlier Wednesday that it was unclear what caused the blaze at the church about 65 miles north of Charleston, South Carolina.
There are “still a lot of questions to be answered,” said Stephen Gardner, chief sheriff’s deputy of Williamsburg County.
“We haven’t ruled anything in or anything out at this point” regarding what caused the fire, said Craig Chillcott, assistant special agent in charge of the ATF field division in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Since the June 17 murders at Charleston’s Emmanuel AME church of nine worshippers by a white 21-year-old saying he wanted to start a race war, at least six black churches have burned in the southeastern United States. That includes Tuesday night’s burning of Mt. Zion.
Regardless of the cause of Tuesday’s blaze, “it was another punch to the gut” to the community, said former state Rep. Bakari Sellers on CNN Wednesday.
“This community has been through so much,” he said, alluding to April 4 shooting death of Walter Scott by a white police officer — who has been charged with murder — and the Charleston church massacre this month.
“We are weary,” he said. “We are tired.”
The other black churches that have burned since June 17 are:
* June 26: Greater Miracle Apostolic in Tallahassee, Florida. The fire was likely caused by a tree limb falling on power lines.
* June 26: Glover Grovery Baptist in Warrenville, South Carolina. The cause has not been determined, but investigators observed no element of criminal intent.
* June 24: Briar Creek Road Church in Charlotte, North Carolina, which houses both black and Nepalese congregations. Fire investigators ruled that fire an arson, and though they have not seen evidence that hate was a motivation for the crime, they are not ruling it out.
* June 21: College Hill Seventh-day Adventist in Knoxville, Tennessee. Investigators ruled it an arson but they say nothing so far has indicated a hate crime. ATF and other agencies said that it looked like vandalism.
* June 21: God’s Power Church of Christ in Macon, Georgia. Investigators believe the blaze might be arson. ATF is investigating but no ruling has been made. The church had recently been broken into and air conditioners and sound systems stolen.
Hate crime years ago at Mount Zion
The blaze this week at Mount Zion echoed pain from 20 years ago.
Two white men who reportedly said they were members of the Ku Klux Klan pleaded guilty to starting the blaze and another at a separate black church.
They received almost two decades in prison for those crimes.
“It’s devastating to put the church and the community through the same thing,” Greeleyville Mayor Jesse Parker told CNN. “To see it back in flames in such a short span of time is hurtful to the entire community.”
The blazes were part of a spate of about 30 fires that swept black churches in Southern states at the time.
Senior Bishop John Bryant of AME’s national headquarters said Tuesday night’s fire “will not send us into despair or depression. As Christians, we are a people of resurrection and even from the ashes we will rise.”
Other fires
Most recent religious targets of hate crimes have been synagogues and mosques, the Southern Poverty Law Center said.
Firefighters battled blazes at more than 1,700 religious structures per year between 2007 and 2011, according to a 2013 report from the National Fire Protection Association. These included houses of worship of all religions as well as funeral parlors and religious schools.
Nearly a third of the fires were caused by cooking devices. Almost a quarter started in kitchens or cooking areas. Electrical lines or lighting cause 10% of the fires.
About 16% were intentionally set, and these caused about 25% of the reported property damage, the report said.
The number of fires at religious institutions has dropped dramatically since 1980. Before then, twice as many structures burned each year, on average.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



 



			1 Comment		




 

vicki

Hum, I thought a Rebel flag might have climed down from a pole and started it.




							July 2, 2015 at 6:41 AM						

Reply











 






 Weather Team
Watch the Q13 FOX News weather team for the most useful and accurate forecasts and get weather ready.







 

 


Popular



Disturbing texts reveal final moments before father throws baby from bridge



Suspect leads police to remains of Justin Morris, victim in alleged ‘Frying Pan Murder’



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking







 


Latest News



‘House of 1000 corpses’ and ‘The Jeffersons’ actor Irwin Keyes dies at 63



Police seek help finding missing woman, 67, in Pierce County



FBI: Foiled plots meant to ‘kill people in the U.S.’ timed to 4th of July



Pilot walks away after light plane crashes at Renton airport





 












National & World News

Prominent black South Carolina church burns; feds investigating


National & World News

Dylann Storm Roof, suspect in church shooting, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


National & World News

Victims’ families confront accused church shooter: ‘May God have mercy on you’


National & World News

9 killed in what officials call a hate crime at historic church; shooter at large



 


National & World News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Paradise Fire grows in remote area of Olympic National Park


National & World News

9 dead in black church shooting that police call a hate crime; shooter at large


National & World News

Details emerge about Charleston church shooting suspect Dylan Storm Roof


National & World News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened



 


National & World News

Dylann Roof allegedly confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


National & World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police name suspect in Charleston church shooting


National & World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm






 





Mobile AppsNews App (iOS)
News App (Android)
Weather App (iOS)
Weather App (Android)




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts








































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















