Vigil in Salt Lake City honors victims of shooting in Charleston | fox13now.com 
Vigil in Salt Lake City honors victims of shooting in Charleston | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					67°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Vigil in Salt Lake City honors victims of shooting in Charleston

Posted 9:26 pm, June 20, 2015, by Kelly Keiter 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





SALT LAKE CITY, Utah – The Salt Lake City branch of the NAACP hosted a candlelight vigil at The City Library Saturday to honor the victims who died in Wednesday night’s shooting in Charleston, South Carolina.
Community leaders and local clergymen gathered at the library downtown, where they spoke about the victims and how to come together as a community to heal during this time of tragedy.
“The church was made to feel safe in. We shouldn’t have to fear our churches. We should feel safe in our church,” said Lucinda Sampson, a Salt Lake resident and member of the African American Episcopal Church.
Twenty-one-year-old Dylann Roof, the alleged gunman, was apprehended and charged with murder.
“It’s just heart-wrenching, it’s just heart breaking,” said Pastor Corey Hodges from New Pilgrim Baptist Church in Salt Lake City. “I think we all have a responsibility to speak out, and we all must fight the temptation of silent indifference and when we see injustice in our community and in our world and in our country, that we should speak out and, our voices should be louder. The voices of good-will people should be louder than those of ill-will.”
Jeneatta Williams, Director of the local chapter for the NAACP, says she hopes the incident prompts citizens to be more aware of people who seem troubled in their communities.
“I think it just needs to be some type of opportunity where people can say, ‘Where we can report when someone is acting strange or when someone’s saying something that we think is a little bit odd,’ then people need to know where they can call in to some type of report,” she said.
Hodges says it struck close to home for him because he was conducing bible study at his church the same night as the shooting.
“They’re praying, and doing good, trying to better themselves and to be gunned down simply because of the color of their skin… so it was kind of close to home,” Hodges said.
Salt Lake resident Lucinda Sampson says she hopes those affected by Wednesday’s tragedy will turn to each other in support and kindness.
“And if we can just throw down our arms, these weapons, and make this circle of love, this would be a better place,” she said.
Hodges says there is still a lot of praying to do as the families of the nine victims heal. The NAACP says they are hoping members of Salt Lake’s community will unite and discuss ways to prevent more tragedies like this from happening in the future.



Filed in: News Topics: AME church shooting, candlelight vigil, charelston shooting, Dylann Roof, fatal shooting, NAACP 













 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Prayer vigil for Charleston shooting victims held in SLC


News

Minister: “No evildoer, no demon” can close church targeted by shooter


News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect in mass shooting



 


News

Bishops lead march in Salt Lake City against gun violence


News

Mitt Romney tweet ignites discussion of removal of Confederate Flag at SC Capitol


News Politics

Pres. Obama brings up gun control issue while addressing US about Charleston shooting


News

Local faith leaders express grief, disappointment over fatal South Carolina church shooting


News

Community holds vigil in honor of 4 who died in boating accident at Bear Lake



 


News

Family, friends hold candlelight vigil for teen fatally shot in Ogden street


News

		2 hours ago	

S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds


News

Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















