SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com 
SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting

Posted 6:02 am, June 18, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Sen. Clementa Pinckney 


×
SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting


 Sen. Clementa Pinckney


CHARLESTON, S.C. — One of the victims of the shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is Pastor Rev. Clementa Pinckney, according to CNN affiliate WCSC.
The affiliate confirmed the information through Elder James Johnson, the president of the Tri-County chapter of the civil rights organization, the National Action Network.
Family members said Rev. Pinckney was preaching when he and eight others were gunned down.
Pinckney, who was 42, first answered the call to preach nearly 30 years ago, at the age of 13, according to a biography on the church website.
And he was, it appears, a high achiever all his life. He was first appointed a pastor when he was 18. He graduated from Allen University — magna cum laude, of course. He had been president of the student body as well.
Ebony Magazine included him as one of its “Top College Students in America.”
Not cynical about politics
In 1996, at the age of 23, he was elected to the state House of Representatives, the youngest black person ever elected to the Legislature in South Carolina. Four years later, at the age of 27, he was elected to the state Senate.
There, the national recognition of his achievements continued. Washington Post columnist David Broder called Pinckney a “political spirit lifter for surprisingly not becoming cynical about politics.”
Pinckney left a wife, Jennifer, and two children, Eliana and Malana.
History of the church 
The roots of Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church run deep in Charleston and its history is one of perseverance in the face of racial hostility.
It was borne of discrimination, burned to the ground in hate, and rose again.
Now, a shooting in its basement — where nine of its African-American congregants were killed by a white gunman — is forcing it to once again confront the ugly virulence that blood-stained its past.
And once again, say members of the oldest AME church in the South, they will forge ahead and emerge stronger.
In the beginning
The congregation first formed in 1791, a coalition of free blacks and slaves. At first they were members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church. But in 1816, they left their white counterparts in a dispute over burial grounds.
At the time, the church was 1,400 members strong. They rallied behind the leadership of a pastor named Morris Brown and organized under the banner of the African Methodist Episcopal Church.
Burned to the ground
The early years of the congregation were fraught with trials as Brown and other ministers of the church were jailed for violating laws that prohibited slaves and free blacks from gathering without white supervision.
In 1822, the church was burned to the ground, after plans for a slave revolt were exposed.
Denmark Vesey, a carpenter who brought himself out of slavery, was the architect. Since he was one of the founders of the congregation, authorities suspected the church was the meeting place for planning the rebellion.
The church was torched in retaliation. Authorities arrested 313 alleged participants, and executed 35, including Vesey.
Born again
The congregation rebuilt the church and met there until 1834 — when all-black churches were outlawed by the state legislature.
Undeterred, they continued to meet in secret until the end of the Civil War in 1865, when they formally reorganized.
They adopted the name ‘Emanuel,’ meaning “God with us.”
At the time, the church was a wooden two-story structure, and it was destroyed in an earthquake in 1886.
Once again, it rebuilt.
During the civil rights movement of the 1960s, it was a destination stop for many of the leaders, including Martin Luther King Jr.
Today, the church — with its historic Gothic Revival-style structure and signature steeple — is a fixture in Charleston. With seats for 2,500, it has the largest capacity of any African-American church in Charleston.
It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1985.

32.776475
-79.931051



Related stories

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting
Charleston shooting: 9 killed in ‘hate crime’ shooting at church




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: Charleston, church shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Confederate flag still flies as Pinckney’s body heads for SC Capitol


News

New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting



 


News

Charleston pastor and state senator, Clementa Pinckney, remembered for seeking justice


News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine



 


News

How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Panthers donate $100k to families of victims in SC church shooting that killed nine






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















