Officials investigating second fire at black church in South Carolina | myfox8.com 
Officials investigating second fire at black church in South Carolina | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Officials investigating second fire at black church in South Carolina

Posted 6:21 am, July 1, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 



×
Officials investigating second fire at black church in South Carolina


 


GREELEYVILLE, S.C. — A fire broke out at the Mt. Zion African Methodist Episcopal Church in Greeleyville, S.C., on Tuesday. Up to 50 firefighters fought to extinguish the blaze, a fire official said.
So far, authorities do not know what caused it, said Williamsburg County Fire Chief Randy Swinton.
The local sheriff, local police and the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division also responded to the fire at the traditionally black church.
The FBI and five agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives are also investigating, said ATF Special Agent Tom Mangan.
“Anytime there is a house of worship involved in a fire, ATF is automatically assigned to look into the cause,” he said.
A sniffer dog will likely be sent in during the first phase of the investigation, once the embers cool down, said Nero Priester, an ATF arson specialist. That could be as early as Wednesday afternoon.
The church’s brick walls were still standing early Wednesday, but the flames gutted the entire interior, fire officials told CNN affiliate WCIV.
Previous hate crime
The church’s previous structure burned in 1995 as a result of hate-motivated arson during a spate of about 30 fires that swept black churches in Southern states at the time. Members of the Ku Klux Klan were responsible for that attack, Mangan said.
Then President Bill Clinton spoke at the new church structure in 1996 days before its official dedication, calling for racial unity in the United States.
Greeleyville is a small town in rural Williamsburg County in the eastern part of the state.
Senior Bishop John Bryant of AME’s national headquarters said Tuesday night’s fire “will not send us into despair or depression. As Christians, we are a people of resurrection and even from the ashes we will rise.”
Other fires
A racially motivated shooting in the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston earlier this month triggered an outpouring sympathy and outrage throughout the country.
Since that shooting, at least six black churches have burned in the southeastern United States. Investigators have said that there has been no evidence these were hate crimes, nor that they were linked. Two of them may have been the result of arson.
Since the Charleston shooting, the most recent religious targets of hate crimes have been Jewish synagogues and Islamic mosques, the Southern Poverty Law Center said.

33.580999
-79.988965




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: fire, hate crime 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?


News

Charleston shooting: 9 killed in ‘hate crime’ shooting at church



 


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine



 


News

Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’


News

SC man clings for life on top of burning Domino’s Pizza sign: ‘It was jump or climb’


News

Movie theater chain fires girl for Twitter rant after deadly SC church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















