Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 71°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  87°
					


Sat


					73°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 GOAL! Explore PIX11’s full coverage of the World Cup Ticker Tape Parade						








 







Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre

Posted 10:42 PM, June 27, 2015, by CNN 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 






CHARLESTON, S.C. — On this hot, humid Saturday, in Charleston, South Carolina, hundreds of people gathered once more at Emanuel AME Church to pay their respects and say their final farewells to three of the nine people killed in last week’s shooting during a Bible study class. Family, friends, strangers black and white, all came together for “home going” services for Cythia Hurd, Susie Jackson and Tywanza Sanders.
Cynthia Graham Hurd
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, who has attended all six of the funerals held so far for the victims who’ve come to be known as “the Emanuel Nine,” said 54-year-old Cynthia Hurd was someone she only read about but wishes she had known. ” I love the fact that she said she was inspired by her mom because ‘can’t’ was never in her vocabulary,” Haley told the mourners.
Standing on the pulpit, decorated on both sides with huge matching floral arrangements of colorful, yellow and red flowers, Haley joked that, ” After every service I come to, I’m convinced I’m going to become an AME member after this.”
Hurd’s casket was adorned with a huge spray of pink and burgundy roses. Framing both sides of the casket, were nearly life-sized photos of Hurd from important occasions in her life. Next to the casket — a large, heart-shaped floral wreath dominating the sanctuary, infused with a startling bunch of red roses in the middle, bringing to mind a broken heart.
One after another friends, coworkers and relatives spoke of how loved Hurd was in her community. They spoke of how she never had kids of her own, but “adopted” everyone else’s kids, and of how much her loss had impacted her husband, Steve.
Rev. Jessie Jackson marveled at how the community of Charleston had come together, turning the other cheek and showing love in the face of hatred.
“Cythia Hurd not only taught us how to love, it was her family who taught us how to forgive”, said Haley. “She not only taught us how to love, it was her family who taught us how to forgive” she said.
Susie Jackson and Tywanza Sanders
Almost as soon as one funeral ended, the next began for 26-year-old Tywanza Sanders and his 86-year-old aunt Susie Jackson. They were together at Bible study that fateful night. When the shooting began he jumped up to try to protect his aunt and both were killed. They were remembered together on Saturday.
Both caskets sat before the pulpit — a huge spray of pink flowers on hers and dark purple flowers on his.
There were words of comfort from Charleston Mayor Joesph Riley, who has also attended every funeral. “Within this heartbreaking tragedy” he said “you, the family and this community of prayer have sent a desperately needed message to the world. And that is: you respond to hate with love.”
Referencing the controversy surrounding the Confederate flag, Jackson said there have been efforts to “get it down” for many years. “But, somehow there’s power in the blood” he told the mourners. “And the stained banner of blood brought it down and it will stay down.” Jackson also thanked Haley for saying publicly that it was time for the flag to come down.
Haley spoke again from the pulpit at the funerals of Jackson and Sanders, saying, “It doesn’t matter how many funerals you go, to they’re all hard, because it shouldn’t have happened.”
Haley spoke directly to the families telling them “I’ve struggled through all of these funerals because this happened on my watch. And what I can tell you is we will make this right. They will not have died in vain.”
Three more funerals remain
The funeral for Rev, DePayne Middleton-Doctor, who was 49, is planned for Sunday at 1 p.m. ET, also at Emanuel AME church.
On Monday, Myra Thompson, who was 59 will be laid to rest. Her funeral will take place at Emanuel AME church as well.
Plans have not been announced for the funeral of Rev. Daniel L. Simmons, Sr. who was 74.




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News 













 






BUCKLE UP BOSTON! Yankees take on the Red Sox, Friday at 7 on PIX11
Don’t miss this key game in the ancient rivalry between the Yanks and the Sox, exclusively on PIX11. Catch the pre-game at 6:30 p.m. 







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Program helps kids of incarcerated parents in NYC



NJ family plagued by mysterious illness



Web extra: Christian Borle talks historic dressing room, show us his costumes



Web extra: Brad Oscar and Brooks Ashmanskas talk their dressing room decor





 












News

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate battle flag from capitol grounds


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm



 


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre


News

South Carolina lawmakers to debate Confederate flag on Monday


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened



 


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings


News

Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime


Queens

De Blasio, church leaders, rally in Queens for Charleston victims






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















