Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 71°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  87°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 GOAL! Explore PIX11’s full coverage of the World Cup Ticker Tape Parade						








 







Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting

Posted 10:20 AM, June 18, 2015, by Tribune Media Wire, Updated at 07:23pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 





CHARLESTON, S.C. — He’s white, slightly built and in his early 20s — and police say he walked into a Charleston, South Carolina, church and fatally shot nine people as they attended Bible study class.
Dylann Storm Roof, 21
Dylann Storm Roof, 21, is now at the center of a major manhunt, according to the The Post and Courier.
Police released a flier Thursday morning with details of the suspect in the attack on the historic African-American church as they appealed for help to track him down as quickly as possible.
According to reports, Roof is currently out on bond in connection with multiple recent arrests on drug and trespassing charges.
“The following subject is wanted for the shooting that occured in Charleston at the Emanuel AME Church. Subject is Dylann Storm Roof w/m 4/3/1994 5’9″ 120 lbs. The subject should be driving a 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS, SC registration LGF330. The vehicle is dark-colored. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous and caution should be used if seen. “
Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen told a news conference that officers “have obtained surveillance videos of the suspect in this case and a suspect vehicle.”
Mullen said the suspect was a “younger white male between 21 and 25 years of age, 5-foot-9 in height” and “has a very distinctive sweatshirt that has markings.”
Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.
Mullen emphasized the suspect is “a very dangerous individual” and said “he should not be approached by anyone.”
Any people who recognize the suspect or spots the vehicle should alert law enforcement, he said, rather than trying to follow themselves.
Woman spared by shooter to give account?
A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.
Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night. Scott added that she didn’t know if the survivor had ended up at the hospital or being questioned by police.
Because of the church’s historic significance, it is not unusual for visitors, whether white or black, to visit it, Scott said. She said she’d had no indication that any children were among the victims.
Mullen told the news conference the suspect had been in the church attending a meeting that was going on — and “stayed there almost an hour with the group before the actual event.”
But he declined to comment on whether the suspect had let one woman escape.
Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.
‘Distinctive’ license plate
The suspect was seen leaving the church in a black four-door sedan, the flier says. “The vehicle you will see has a very distinctive front license plate,” Mullen added.
He appealed for the media to help in circulating the suspect’s image and for the public to be vigilant. The clean-shaven man pictured wears a gray sweatshirt over a white T-shirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.
“No one in this community will ever forget this night and as a result of this and because of the pain and the hurt this individual has caused this entire community, the law enforcement agents are committed and we will catch this individual,” Mullen said.
Charleston Mayor Joe Riley echoed that sentiment, saying everything must be done to find a culprit he described as “somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”
The man is a “no-good, horrible person” who must be taken into custody as soon as possible, he said. “Of course we will make sure he pays the price for this horrible act.”
Wednesday night’s attack at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is being investigated as a hate crime. All the victims, who include the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, were black. Six of those killed were female and three male.


Related stories

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?
Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime




Filed in: News Topics: Charleston, Church, Dylann Roof, Shooting, South Carolina, suspect 













 






Watch The CW Now!
See last night’s episodes now on The CW







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Program helps kids of incarcerated parents in NYC



NJ family plagued by mysterious illness



Web extra: Christian Borle talks historic dressing room, show us his costumes



Web extra: Brad Oscar and Brooks Ashmanskas talk their dressing room decor





 












News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre



 


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

Officers bought Burger King for Dylann Roof after arrest


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings



 


Morning

S.C. deadly church shooting aftermath: Protecting religious institutions from hate groups


Brooklyn News

Emotional vigil held in Brooklyn for Charleston victims


News

Manifesto allegedly belonging to accused Charleston shooter found online






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















