Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre | FOX2now.com 
Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX 2 News  

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

71°







71°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre

Posted 5:10 am, June 22, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 




 



×
Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


 



CHARLESTON, South Carolina (CNN) — Of the thousands of services in the church’s 199-year history, the one Sunday took on an added poignancy.
Behind the podium at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, a chair sat empty with a black cloak draped over it. It’s where the Rev. Clementa Pinckney would have been sitting, had a gunman not killed the pastor and eight other worshippers at a Bible study Wednesday night.
But instead of just pain, hymns and gratitude also filled the church in Charleston, South Carolina.
“The doors of the church are open,” the Rev. Norvel Goff declared. “No evildoer, no demon in hell or on Earth can close the doors of God’s church.”
As nine families continue grappling with their loss, new developments are emerging on the investigation and the debate over what many deem a public symbol of racism.
The investigation 
Dylann Roof told investigators he killed the nine worshipers at the historically black church because he wanted to start a race war, an official said.
Now, investigators are looking into a website registered to Roof, which features a 2,000-word racist manifesto that details the writer’s philosophy of white superiority.
The author said he “chose Charleston because it is most historic city in my state, and at one time had the highest ratio of blacks to Whites in the country.”
The website, called the Last Rhodesian, is bare bones. Roof’s name doesn’t appear anywhere on the site, but he is shown in many of the photos. Some photos show him burning and spitting on an American flag or holding a Confederate flag.
On Friday, Roof appeared at a bond hearing. Families of the victims addressed him and did something many didn’t expect: they said they forgave him.
“I’m reminded of some news media persons that wondered why the nine families all spoke of forgiveness and didn’t have malice in their heart,” Goff said during the Sunday church service. “It’s that the nine families got it.”
And if the gunman was trying to start a race war, he failed.
“Lots of folks expected us to do something strange and break out in a riot,” Goff said.
“Well, they just don’t know us,” he said, as the congregation stood and cheered.
The flag
The Charleston massacre has reignited debate over whether the Confederate flag should keep flying over the state capitol in Columbia.
Protesters spanning all ages and races filled the front grounds of the state Capitol over the weekend, calling for the Confederate flag to be removed.
“Take it down, take it down,” the crowd chanted.
The dilemma of what to do with the Confederate battle flag — a symbol of racism to many and of Southern heritage for others — has flustered lawmakers for years.
As part of a compromise in 2000, lawmakers agreed to remove the Confederate flag from the top of the Capitol dome and place it across the street while also adding a monument to African-Americans. But the legislation mandated that only a supermajority of the legislature could change that set-up going forward.
Republican state Rep. Doug Brannon has already committed to introducing a bill to remove the flag when the legislature convenes in January.
“Personally, I have believed for years it needed to be in a museum,” Brannon told CNN’s Poppy Harlow on Sunday. “I apologize to the people of South Carolina. I’ve been in the House for five years. I should have introduced this bill five years ago.”
Asked why he didn’t file a bill before, Brannon replied: “I didn’t do my job.”
The unity 
Outside the church Sunday, overflow crowds gathered in the street and listened to the service through loudspeakers.
When 3-year-old Cady Berardo saw the balloons at the makeshift memorial that covered the entire sidewalk, she thought it was someone’s birthday.
Her father, Alan Berardo, who was holding her in his arms, shook his head.
“This is a special church service,” he told her, “because four days ago a lot of people died here.”
“So we’re here today in church with God and everybody. Because we all have the same God,” he told his daughter.
At 10 a.m., churches around Charleston — nicknamed the Holy City because it has so many houses of worship — rang their bells in solidarity with Emanuel AME.
The bell at St. Matthew’s Lutheran Church rang 81 times — nine times for each victim.
By Holly Yan and Catherine E. Shoichet, CNN


Catherine E. Shoichet reported from Charleston; Holly Yan reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN’s Susanna Capelouto, Martin Savidge, Ralph Ellis and Nia-Malika Henderson contributed to this report.




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: charleston shooting, Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, national news 













 






Antenna TV
KTVI’s digital channel 2.2 shows hit movies and classic TV.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Nixon signs bill setting municipal court limits



Former Oakland Raiders QB Stabler dead at 69



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Missing High Ridge boy found safe





 












News

Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

﻿Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


News

Dylann Storm Roof arrested in North Carolina, according to report


News

Vandals target Confederate monuments in half-dozen states



 


News

Charleston shooting suspect charged with 9 counts of murder


Trending

Shooting reported at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston


News

Shooting suspect in custody after Charleston church massacre


News

St. Louis faith leaders gather to mourn victims of Charleston shooting


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?



 


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Charleston church shooting: Suspect confesses, says he sought race war


News

DOJ launches hate crime investigation into Charleston church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















