Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect | myfox8.com 
Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect

Posted 3:19 pm, June 20, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 03:36pm, June 20, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 



×
Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect


 


A website featuring a racist manifesto mentions Charleston as the “historic” target of an attack and displays images that appear to be of Dylann Roof, the 21-year-old who shot nine people to death at Charleston’s Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.
The writer said he was “not raised in a racist environment.” But the 2012 shooting of Trayvon Martin — the black Florida teen whose shooting death at the hands of George Zimmerman, who was acquitted of murder, provoked huge protests — prompted him to research online what he called “black on white crime.”
“The event that truly awakened me was the Trayvon Martin case,” the text says. “I kept hearing and seeing his name, and eventually I decided to look him up.”
CNN has not been able to authenticate the website or its contents, including who wrote the manifesto and when. The website appears to have launched in February but surfaced on Twitter and other social media Saturday.
“It was obvious that Zimmerman was in the right,” the text says, adding that the writer was transformed by the “pages upon pages of … brutal black on White murders” chronicled online.
“I have never been the same since that day,” the writer said.
“I was in disbelief. At this moment I realized that something was very wrong. How could the news be blowing up the Trayvon Martin case while hundreds of these black on White murders got ignored?”
Near the end of the 2,000-word screed, the writer hints at why Charleston was targeted.
“I have no choice. I am not in the position to, alone, go into the ghetto and fight. I chose Charleston because it is most historic city in my state, and at one time had the highest ratio of blacks to Whites in the country. We have no skinheads, no real KKK, no one doing anything but talking on the internet. Well someone has to have the bravery to take it to the real world, and I guess that has to be me.”
The website is called “The Last Rhodesian.” In an image tweeted by South Carolina authorities this week, Roof is seen wearing a jacket with the flags of apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that a white minority ruled until it became independent in 1980 and changed its name to Zimbabwe.
Images on the website include a .45-caliber Glock pistol; a man who appears to be Roof taking aim with the gun; the same man posing in front of a sign that says, “Sacred burial site. Our African ancestors” as well as outside South Carolina’s Museum and Library of Confederate History; and the man standing on and burning an American flag.
“Living in the South, almost every White person has a small amount of racial awareness, simply beause (sic) of the numbers of negroes in this part of the country,” the text says. “But it is a superficial awareness. Growing up, in school, the White and black kids would make racial jokes toward each other, but all they were were jokes.”
It continues, “Me and White friends would sometimes would (sic) watch things that would make us think that ‘blacks were the real racists’ and other elementary thoughts like this, but there was no real understanding behind it.”
Loved ones of some victims offer forgiveness
On Saturday, Roof sat in his jail cell under suicide watch after hearing words of forgiveness from some of his victims’ loved ones the day before.
Wearing a striped inmate jumpsuit, the 21-year-old appeared Friday afternoon by video feed at a bond hearing in Charleston, South Carolina. He stood motionless, a blank expression on his face, as he listened to the anguished words of relatives of the nine people he gunned down Wednesday night at a Bible study class at the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.
“I will never be able to hold her again, but I forgive you,” a daughter of victim Ethel Lance said. “And have mercy on your soul. You hurt me. You hurt a lot of people but God forgives you, and I forgive you.”
Felecia Sanders — mother of victim Tywanza Sanders and a survivor of the church shooting — said that “every fiber in my body hurts, and I will never be the same.”
“As we said in the Bible study, we enjoyed you,” she said of Roof. “But may God have mercy on you.”
The families’ words prompted a reaction from President Barack Obama.
“In the midst of darkest tragedy, the decency and goodness of the American people shines through in these families,” Obama said on Twitter.
While the nation rallies behind Charleston, an insight into Roof’s state of mind came Saturday from Charleston County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Maj. Eric Watson.
Roof, he said, “is in protective custody. He is currently sitting on his bed being monitored by two detention officers. He is on suicide watch.”
Roof’s family speaks for first time
Roof’s relatives spoke out for the first time in a statement Friday, extending their “deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims.”
“Words cannot express our shock, grief and disbelief as to what happened that night. We are devastated and saddened by what occurred. We offer our prayers sympathy for all of those impacted by these events,” the statement says. It asks for privacy for the Roof family.
Roof barely spoke at the hearing, answering the judge’s questions about his unemployment with a “yes, sir” and “no, sir.”
In the video feed, Roof could hear, but not see, people in the courtroom. People in the courtroom could see and hear Roof.
Magistrate James B. Gosnell Jr. set bail at $1 million on a weapons possession charge. A circuit judge will hold a bond hearing later on the nine murder charges, but it’s unlikely Roof will be allowed to leave jail.
The suspect is being held in the North Charleston jail. Authorities didn’t want him to appear at the bond hearing in person for security reasons.
Roof may be prosecuted by federal authorities if it’s determined he committed a hate crime. The Justice Department said “it is looking at this crime from all angles, including as a hate crime and as an act of domestic terrorism.”
Roof admits he did it, sources say
Roof admits he shot and killed the people he’d sat with for Bible study at the historically black church, two law enforcement officials said.
He told investigators he did it to start a race war, according to one of the officials.
A friend recalled a drunken Roof ranting one night about his unspecified six-month plan “to do something crazy” in order “to start a race war.” And the Berkeley County, South Carolina, government tweeted a picture of Roof in a jacket with flags from apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that was ruled by a white minority until it became independent in 1980 and is now known as Zimbabwe.
By telling authorities his aim, Roof admitted he attacked unarmed civilians for political purposes in an act of terror.
He faces a long legal road ahead, one that could end in his execution if prosecutors seek a death sentence, according to South Carolina law. Gov. Nikki Haley has indicated that’s what she wants.

35.292351
-81.535646




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: South Carolina church shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

George Zimmerman injured after shooting: The dueling narratives


News

SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’



 


News

Jon Stewart on Charleston: ‘No jokes,’ ‘just sadness’


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?


News

Rapper Lupe Fiasco pens letter to white supremacy


News

George Zimmerman shot, injured in ‘road rage incident’ in Florida


News

George Zimmerman shot, injured in ‘road rage incident’ in Florida



 


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


News

South Carolina lawmakers to debate Confederate flag on Monday


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















