Suspect dies after multi-state, multi-county chase and hostage situation | Fox 59 
Suspect dies after multi-state, multi-county chase and hostage situation | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Suspect dies after multi-state, multi-county chase and hostage situation

Posted 6:49 PM, April 9, 2015, by Greg Margason - Web Producer, Updated at 01:19am, April 10, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 
Picture courtesy of Indy Star 


×
Suspect dies after multi-state, multi-county chase and hostage situation


 Picture courtesy of Indy Star


WHITE COUNTY, Ind. (April 9, 2015) — A man died Thursday following a hostage situation and shootout in White County.
Police identified the suspect as Don Smith, 29, of the South Bend/Elkhart area.
The incident started around 3:30 p.m. in Watseka, Ill., where a man later identified as Smith robbed a business and ran off. Police then confronted him at an auto dealership where they say he took a woman hostage and then left in her Napa delivery truck and headed toward Indiana. Police lost the trail after he crossed the state line.
Around 5:30 p.m., an armed robbery was reported in Lafayette at Advance America on Elmwood Avenue. Witnesses reported seeing the Napa truck, information that was relayed to Indiana State Police. Troopers spotted the stolen vehicle, leading to a chase up north 9th Street into Battle Ground and then Brookston. Police deployed stop sticks, which slowed the truck down. The pursuit continued into a parking lot, where the man ditched the truck and took an SUV.
The SUV went through Reynolds on U.S. 421 and then ran over stop sticks laid down by Monon police. The SUV ran a silver van off the road and into a ditch. The driver and two passengers left the van while Smith moved his hostage into yet another vehicle.
Police surrounded the van and Smith opened fire. Police shot back, fatally wounding him. The hostage managed to escape from the van with help from officers. She suffered some superficial wounds and was taken to a hospital in Monticello, state police said.
State police said Trooper Weslee Ennis and Trooper Rick Hudson were involved in the shooting. Both will be assigned administrative duties until a review board investigates the shooting. The names of other officers involved in the shooting will be released by their respective agencies.  



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Police justified in White County shooting


News

Cloverdale standoff ends after 15-hour showdown with man, woman and baby barricaded in home


News

Driver flees after striking another vehicle


Crimetracker News

Man arrested in downtown Indianapolis after two-county chase stemming from road rage incident


Crimetracker News

Police investigate armed robbery at Bloomington McDonald’s



 


Crimetracker News

Police: Indiana man found passed out behind the wheel with BAC four times the legal limit


News

Suspect in police chase causes fatal accident near Fountain Square; woman killed identified


News

Suicidal man subdued on Indiana Toll Road


Crimetracker News

Man in custody after police chase leads to crash in Avon


News

Police recover stolen Tippecanoe County squad car in Warren County, inmate still on the loose



 


News

Silver Alert cancelled for missing Anderson man


News

Two people hurt after pickup truck, bicycle crash in Johnson County


Crimetracker News

Suspects break into cars at Fishers YMCA, lead police on chase






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















