Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime | Fox 59 
Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime

Posted 10:57 PM, June 17, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 10:22am, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 



CHARLESTON, S.C. (June 17, 2015) – A white man walked into a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina, and opened fire during a Bible study class, killing nine people Wednesday evening.
The suspect was still at large early Thursday morning. Police described him as 5’9″ with a “distinctive” sweatshirt, vehicle and license plate. They said he sat spent about an hour with the congregation before opening fire. The shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, the oldest AME church in the South, is being investigated as a hate crime.
“The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate,” said Charleston Mayor Joe Riley.
Eight churchgoers died at the scene; a ninth at a hospital, police said. Among them is the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, according to CNN affiliate WCSC. The victims included six females and three males. Three people survived.
Officials wouldn’t say how many people were at the Bible study during the shooting. There were survivors, said Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen, but he didn’t elaborate.
Historic significance
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church has been a presence in Charleston since 1816 when African-American members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church formed their own congregation after a dispute over burial grounds.
It was burned to the ground at one point, but rebuilt. Over and over throughout its history, it overcame obstacle after obstacle – destroyed by an earthquake, banned by the state. But its church members persevered, making it the largest African-American church in terms of seating space in Charleston today.
Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement.
The shooting was “obviously the most intolerable and unbelievable act possible,” the mayor said.
“People in prayer Wednesday evening. A ritual, a coming together, praying, worshiping God. An awful person come in and shoot them is inexplicable,” Riley said.
Police received the first call around 9:05 p.m. Officers arrived to find several victims inside.
“It’s really bad. It’s a very bad scene,” local pastor Thomas Dixon said.
Search on for suspect
Police said the suspect in the shooting is a clean-shaven white man in his early 20s, 5’9″ with a slender build and sandy blonde hair. He was wearing a gray sweatshirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.
Soon afterward, news cameras showed officers taking a man matching that description into custody, but he was later released.
Police said they were still looking for the shooter.
“He obviously is extremely dangerous,” Chief Mullen said. “We will put all our resources, we will put all of our energy in finding this individual.”
The department asked anyone with information to call 911 dispatchers.
“While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we’ll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another,” South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said.
Mullen was more direct: “I do believe this was a hate crime.”
‘Sick to our stomachs’
The church sits in an area of Charleston, densely packed with houses of worship and well-preserved old buildings.
The city, as several reverends pointed out, is known as the “Holy City” for its tolerant attitude toward different denominations.
It was led by Rev. Clementa Pinckney, who was also a state senator. His death was reported by affiliate WCSC, who confirmed it through Elder James Johnson, the president of the Tri-County chapter of the civil rights organization, the National Action Network.
Recently, Pinckney backed a bill to make body cameras mandatory for all police officers in South Carolina. The legislation was in response to the death of Walter Scott, an unarmed black man killed by a police officer earlier this year.
“Body cameras help to record what happens. It may not be the golden ticket, the golden egg, the end-all-fix-all, but it helps to paint a picture of what happens during a police stop,” Pinckney said in April.
Early Thursday morning, residents stood in circles, hands clasped and heads bowed, as they prayed.
“Like everybody out here, we’re sick to our stomachs that this could happen in a church,” Rep. Dave Mack, a friend of the church’s pastor, said.
They called for justice, but also for calm heads.
Theirs is a strong community, they said, and this incident wouldn’t tear them apart.
The head of the NAACP expressed his outrage over the shooting.
“There is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people engaged in the study of scripture,” Cornell William Brooks said.
Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush canceled a scheduled town hall in Charleston on Thursday because of the shooting.
“As the #Charleston police deem this horrific act a hate crime,” the King Center tweeted, “we pray vigorously that this person’s hate does not cultivate more hate.”



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice,’ bond set at $1 million


News

Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


Crimetracker News

Family of Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof speaks for the first time



 


National & World News

FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof


News NewsPoint

Indy church members pray for victims in Charleston church shooting


National & World News

Charleston shooting victims’ names released


National & World News

Woman who helped police catch Charleston church shooting suspect credits divine intervention


National & World News

Dash cam video shows Charleston shooting suspect’s arrest in North Carolina



 


National & World News

White House illuminated in rainbow colors following Supreme Court’s same-sex marriage ruling


National & World News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


National & World News

WATCH: President Obama sings ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















