2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody | myfox8.com 
2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody

Posted 9:49 am, May 10, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 



×
2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody


 


HATTIESBURG, Miss. — Two police officers were shot dead in Mississippi late Saturday. It was the first time in 30 years that an officer was killed in the line of duty in Hattiesburg, the mayor said.
Officers Benjamin J. Deen, 34, and Liquori Tate, 24, were making a traffic stop when they were shot, Mayor Johnny DuPree said.
They were taken to a hospital, but did not survive.
“The men and women who go out every day to protect us, the men and women who go out every day to make sure that we are safe, were turned on tonight,” DuPree said.
Police have apprehended two suspects, Marvin Banks and Curtis Banks, he said.
After the shooting, the suspects stole a police vehicle, which they used to flee. It was later found abandoned, according to CNN affiliate WDAM. The two men both have criminal records.
Police also took a woman into custody who was with the suspects at the time of the shooting, WDAM reported. They have not said whether she was involved. DuPree told CNN a third suspect was taken into custody, but did not disclose the gender.
Deen was named the city’s officer of the year in 2012, according to The Clarion-Ledger in Jackson, Mississippi. Tate had recently graduated from the police academy.
Deen leaves behind a wife and two children. Tate was not married and had no children, DuPree said.
After visiting the crime scene, the mayor went to the hospital, where he tended to family members until early Sunday.
“You have to search for words you say to family members how much we love them; we are here to support them,” he said. The city is making grief counselors available to the slain men’s fellow officers.
DuPree vowed that the perpetrators of the attack would face justice.
Police in Oxford, Mississippi, sent out condolences in a tweet.
“Both Hattiesburg Police Officers have died. Terrible. Prayers to the entire community and families,” it read.

31.327119
-89.290339




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: police shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

4 charged in fatal shooting of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, policemen


News

Arizona officer who drove into suspect justified, chief says


News

At least two people shot outside Muhammad cartoon exhibit in Texas


News

Slain Mississippi officer had ‘fire in his soul’ for policing, father says


News

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect



 


News

New Orleans police officer shot and killed while in his car


News

Suspect killed after opening fire on officers outside Dallas police headquarters


News

12 people arrested during protests over Freddie Gray’s death


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video



 


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Baltimore police: Reports of shooting unfounded


News

Shooting suspect still sought after wild afternoon in Greensboro neighborhood






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















