Police searching for suspect who broke into 2 Winston-Salem houses, fired gun | myfox8.com 
Police searching for suspect who broke into 2 Winston-Salem houses, fired gun | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police searching for suspect who broke into 2 Winston-Salem houses, fired gun

Posted 7:56 am, June 30, 2015, by Web Staff 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Credit: Google Maps  


×
Police searching for suspect who broke into 2 Winston-Salem houses, fired gun


 Credit: Google Maps 


WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — Police are searching for a suspect who broke into two Winston-Salem homes early Tuesday morning.
Officers responded to a call about a breaking and entering in progress at a home located at 1011 Betty Drive just after 1 a.m.
Residents told police the armed suspect forced the front door open and entered the home.
The suspect fled the area after being confronted by the residents.
Before leaving the area, the suspect fired several rounds in the direction of the home.
There was no damage to the home.
During the investigation, officers found that the same suspect had broken into a home located at 3401 Lambeth St. and fired shots near the home before going to the home on Betty Drive.
No one was injured from the shots fired near the home, but the home was damaged.
Police are pursuing additional leads and the investigation is ongoing.
Anyone with any information regarding this incident or similar crimes is asked to call the Winston-Salem Police Department at (336) 773-7700 or Crime Stoppers at (336) 727-2800. En Español: (336) 728-3904.

36.099860
-80.244216




Filed in: News Topics: breaking and entering 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Shots fired into Winston-Salem home near school bus stop


News

Man arrested in connection with Winston-Salem home break-in where children nearly shot


News

2 juveniles arrested in Winston-Salem break-in


News

Winston-Salem mom says man accused of 2 break-ins nearly shot children


News

Shots fired into 2 Greensboro apartments



 


News

Details: Suspect in custody after police chase in Winston-Salem


News

Winston-Salem convenience store robbed at gunpoint


News

1 charged in connection to death of Winston-Salem man found dead in driveway


News

Man shot in the leg after argument at Winston-Salem home


News

Police investigate home invasion in Winston-Salem



 


News

Police looking for man caught on video stealing from Winston-Salem home


News

Marine vet says he could ‘have been just another unsolved murder’ after Winston-Salem gunfight


News

Two people shot at Winston-Salem Apartment complex






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















