Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 71°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  87°
					


Sat


					73°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 GOAL! Explore PIX11’s full coverage of the World Cup Ticker Tape Parade						








 







Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source

Posted 8:40 AM, June 19, 2015, by CNN, Updated at 10:23am, June 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 



CHARLESTON, S.C. — For Dylann Roof’s friends, talk of sparking a race war or wanting segregation reinstated was nothing new.
But then again, they didn’t think he was serious. After all, they had known him for years.
“He never said the N-word, he never made racial slurs, he never targeted a specific black person,” his roommate Joey Meek told ABC News. “He never did any of that, so it was just pretty much a shock.”
Police say it was Roof who opened fire at a prayer meeting Wednesday night at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, killing nine people.
Meek didn’t take his claims about Roof to authorities before Thursday morning, the day after the shooting, ABC reported.
Nine counts of murder
Roof was arrested Thursday morning about 245 miles (395 kilometers) from Charleston in Shelby, North Carolina. He waived extradition and returned to South Carolina late Thursday.
Charleston, South Carolina, police tweeted Friday that Roof is charged with nine counts of murder and possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime. He is scheduled to appear in court at 2 p.m.
He might still be on the run if police hadn’t received a tip from Debbie Dills, who reportedly spotted Roof on her way into work.
“I don’t know what drew my attention to the car,” Debbie Dills told CNN’s Don Lemon. She saw it had a South Carolina license plate. “In my mind I’m thinking, ‘That can’t be.’ … I never dreamed that it would be the car.”
Dills followed Roof for more than 30 miles, keeping authorities updated along the way.
Shelby police eventually caught up with Roof, pulled him over and took him into custody before returning him to Charleston.

Friends and family
A more comprehensive picture of Roof is developing as police pursue the case.
John Mullins, who attended White Knoll High School with Roof, told CNN on Thursday that the suspect was “kind of wild” but not violent.
“He was … calm,” Mullins said. “That’s why all this is such a shock.”
Mullins said Roof occasionally made racist comments, although he had black friends.
“They were just racist slurs in a sense,” he said. “He would say it just as a joke. … I never took it seriously, but now that he shed his other side, so maybe they should have been taken more seriously.”
Roof repeated the ninth grade at the Lexington County high school, said Mary Beth Hill of the Lexington School District, west of Columbia, South Carolina. She said he was “very transient,” that he “came and went.”
In a Washington Post interview, Roof’s uncle, Carson Cowles, said his mother “never raised him to be like this.”
Police are investigating the shooting as a hate crime.
“The whole world is going to be looking at his family who raised this monster,” Cowles told the Post. “I’d be the executioner myself if they would allow it.”

Before opening fire
Roof spent about an hour at the historic African-American church before the massacre, attending the prayer meeting with his eventual victims, Charleston police Chief Greg Mullen said.
Witnesses told investigators the gunman stood up and said he was there “to shoot black people,” a law enforcement official said.
“You rape our women, and you’re taking over our country. And you have to go,” Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the church’s slain pastor, said Roof told his victims, according to CNN affiliate WIS-TV in Columbia.
Investigators are looking into whether Roof had links to white supremacist or other hate groups, a law enforcement official said. There’s no indication so far that he was known to law enforcement officials who focus on hate groups.
In an image tweeted by authorities in Berkeley County, South Carolina, Roof is seen wearing a jacket with what appear to be the flags of apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that a white minority ruled until it became independent in 1980 and changed its name to Zimbabwe.
Banned from mall
The months leading up to the shooting were a mix of troubling and odd.
Police in his hometown of Columbia — about 120 miles northwest of Charleston — obtained a warrant for his arrest in early March. He had been picked up on drug charges a few days earlier at Columbiana Centre mall, according to a police report.
Workers at two stores told mall security that Roof was acting strangely, asking “out of the ordinary questions,” the police report said.
Roof initially said he wasn’t carrying anything illegal. But he agreed to be searched, and an officer found “a small unlabeled white bottle containing multiple orange … square strips” in his jacket, the police report said.
They turned out to be Suboxone, which is used to treat opiate addiction, according to the police report. Roof said he got the strips from a friend.
He was arrested on a drug possession charge that day in late February, but it’s unclear why the March 1 arrest warrant was issued.
On April 26, police were again called to Columbiana Centre because Roof, who had been banned from the mall for a year after his drug arrest, had returned, the police report said. The ban was extended to three years after his second arrest.
The gun
Roof turned 21 in April, and a short time later he had a gun.
On Thursday, investigators did a trace of the handgun used in Wednesday’s shooting and determined that it was a .45-caliber handgun Roof purchased from a Charleston gun store in April, two law enforcement officials said.
His grandfather says Roof was given “birthday money” and that the family didn’t know what he did with it.
Roof confessed to the shootings in interviews with the Charleston police and the FBI, two law enforcement officials said.
One law enforcement official told CNN that Roof told investigators he wanted to start a race war.


PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]


PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit


DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says


New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News 













 






BUCKLE UP BOSTON! Yankees take on the Red Sox, Friday at 7 on PIX11
Don’t miss this key game in the ancient rivalry between the Yanks and the Sox, exclusively on PIX11. Catch the pre-game at 6:30 p.m. 







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Program helps kids of incarcerated parents in NYC



NJ family plagued by mysterious illness



Web extra: Christian Borle talks historic dressing room, show us his costumes



Web extra: Brad Oscar and Brooks Ashmanskas talk their dressing room decor





 












News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

Officers bought Burger King for Dylann Roof after arrest


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm



 


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings


News

‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral


Brooklyn News

Emotional vigil held in Brooklyn for Charleston victims



 


News

How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















