Dallas police HQ shooting: Suspect killed during standoff | fox13now.com 
Dallas police HQ shooting: Suspect killed during standoff | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Dallas police HQ shooting: Suspect killed during standoff

Posted 6:58 am, June 13, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 02:57pm, June 13, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (13 images)





Inline



Inline



Inline



Inline

 




By Jason Hanna and Joe Sutton

CNN


(CNN) — A man unleashed a barrage of gunfire on Dallas’ police headquarters and planted explosives outside the building early Saturday — narrowly failing to wound anyone — leading to a chase to a suburb that ended with SWAT officers killing him in his parked van at a restaurant parking lot.
Police shot him through the windshield of the van about an hour before dawn after he made more threats, sometime after they chased him to the lot outside the Jack in the Box restaurant in the suburb of Hutchins, authorities said.
But police didn’t confirm his death until the early afternoon, with a bomb squad needing to inspect the vehicle after the suspect told them that the vehicle contained explosives.
“We believe this suspect meant to kill officers,” police Chief David Brown told reporters. “We barely survived the intentions of this suspect.”
Before he was shot, the suspect ranted to police by phone, giving his name and alleging police were responsible for his child having been taken from him, but investigators haven’t confirmed his identity, Brown said.
The attack began shortly after midnight, with the man firing an assault weapon and then a shotgun from the outside, riddling police cars and the windows of the headquarters, which sits across the street from a large apartment and office complex. Dallas Police Chief Gilberto Garza said at times the suspect was on foot as he fired an automatic rifle.
“He was always in or just outside his van,” the chief said.
Officers, staffers and perhaps others narrowly avoided being shot. The chief said rounds hit not only an occupied squad car but also the police headquarters’ front lobby, its information desk and the building’s second floor.
One lobby staffer had just risen from a desk to get a soda — and bullet holes there suggest that the worker would have been shot otherwise, Brown said.
Bullets might have been whizzing near residents across the street, too. Rick Birt, who lives in the South Side on Lamar complex, was taking a phone video of the gunfire from his open apartment window.
“I heard snaps overhead, so I could tell that was rounds coming in our direction,” Birt, a former Marine, told CNN.
Parts of the initial attack were caught on video by several people nearby, and the police chief said he believed the sounds indicated some of the gunfire came close to those making the recordings. But based on the suspect’s calls to police, “we think he was specifically targeting police officers,” Brown said.
The attacker also planted at least one set of pipe bombs in a bag outside, designed to “explode upon touch,” Brown said.
Police returned fire and gave chase. Video recorded by a witness and aired on CNN shows the dark van ramming the nose of a police car before retreating in reverse.
Chase, another shootout, and standoff
After the shootout at police headquarters, the suspect called 911 and gave a four- to five-minute rant, accusing of police of being to blame for him losing custody of a child, Brown said.
Police later found his number and called him back, eventually allowing SWAT officers to negotiate.
Officers pursued the van to the restaurant parking lot in Hutchins — roughly 13 miles southeast of the Dallas police headquarters — and the man opened a van door and again shot at police, injuring no one, Brown said.
After a gunfire exchange, police called the man for negotiations. The suspect in the vehicle gave police the name James Boulware. Police said that they couldn’t immediately confirm that it is the suspect’s real identity.
Police found a previous record of domestic violence by a man under that name.
Shortly after 4:30 a.m. (5:30 a.m. ET), police used a .50-caliber rifle to hit the engine block, disabling the van, Brown said, because the man on the phone had been increasingly hostile and agitated. Police didn’t want him to drive away and threaten anyone else, Brown said.
About a half hour later, SWAT snipers shot the man through the van’s front windshield, Brown said.
The man had become increasingly angry and made threats before cutting off the negotiations, the chief said.
The suspect claimed that the van contained C-4 plastic explosives, according to Brown.
“They (SWAT officers) made the call, and I believe it’s the right call … to stop his violence,” Brown said.
Authorities found at least two more pipe bombs in the van, police said.
Video from CNN affiliate KTVT showed an explosion near the van, after police said they would use “an explosive water charge” to neutralize any explosives inside.
Early Saturday afternoon, KTVT footage showed the van was on fire.
“During intentional detonation of susp(ect) ordnance, susp(ect) van caught fire and rounds are going off inside,” Dallas police tweeted.
Officer almost tripped on bomb, ‘wouldn’t have survived’
Back outside headquarters, police found at least one package of pipe bombs. It was set to detonate upon touch, Brown said.
“(An officer), during the searching, almost tripped over it. If he had touched it, he wouldn’t have survived,” Brown said.
The package exploded when a bomb-squad robot tried to move it Saturday morning, police said.
Dallas police posted a tweet showing that vehicles were damaged in the blast.
Former Marine captured video
The crackling sound of the Dallas shootout got the attention of Birt, the ex-Marine who lives across the street from the police headquarters with his wife.
“We heard loud noises, my wife asked if I thought they were shots,” he said. “I went over to the window and put one of them up. And we heard more shots being fired, and I turned to my wife and said, ‘Yeah, that’s definitely gunfire.'”
He got his cell phone and recorded video. After the van fled, police informed him and his wife that they and others to evacuate the building.
Dallas police said the complex’s residents might have to stay away for hours, since officers needed to determine whether more bombs were planted in the area.
As for the suspect, investigators have no reason to believe the man had “any nexus to terrorism,” Brown said.
Investigators are looking into whether a van sold in Newnan, Georgia, on eBay last week may be the van used in the Dallas attack, a source familiar with the investigation said. They are investigating, among other things, who may have purchased the vehicle.
Witnesses initially indicated up to four people attacked the Dallas police building. But Brown said investigators concluded that only one person was involved and that witnesses were describing the same person at different times and locations.


CNN’s Ben Brumfield and John Newsome contributed to this report.




Filed in: News Topics: dallas hq targeted, police, police targeted 








			2 comments		




 

Patrick James

i love it !!!




							June 13, 2015 at 3:18 pm						








 

JEWLZZZ

Chalk one up for the good guys!!!




							June 14, 2015 at 8:18 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Police: Cincinnati man calls 911 on self, kills responding officer


News

New Orleans police officer killed after prisoner escapes handcuffs, grabs weapon; manhunt underway


News

LAPD chief concerned if officer’s fatal shooting of unarmed man was ‘justified’


News

71 arrested after acquittal of Cleveland police Officer Michael Brelo


News

2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody



 


News

69-year-old woman who fought off alleged carjacker: ‘I nailed his head about 3 or 4 times’


News

Police ID suspect fatally shot in alleged Orem carjacking; shooter not identified


News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested


News

Freddie Gray death: Protesters damage cars, throw objects at police


News

Police find hundreds of weapons stashed at biker shooting scene



 


News

Suspect in NYPD cop shooting faces attempted murder charges


News

Video released of deadly shooting in Tulsa; police say deputy accidentally used firearm


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















