Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home | fox13now.com 
Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home

Posted 7:39 am, April 23, 2015, by Ashton Edwards 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home


 


KEARNS, Utah – Police are searching for two suspects accused of shooting a man outside a Kearns home.
Unified officers said the victim was walking up to his Kearns home just before 2 a.m. when he heard someone shouting at him.
Police said that is when the man was shot in his lower body.
Other gunshots hit the house near 4500 W. and 5900 S.; no one was inside at the time.
Authorities don’t have a detailed description of the suspects at this time.
They said the two suspects are described as Latino men; one shot and heavyset who was wearing a red hat and backpack and the other is about 5’10” and thin.
Unified Police said they would like to speak with anyone who might have information in this case.

40.644048
-111.997654




Filed in: News Topics: crime, kearns, shooting 








			2 comments		




 

boom

always seems to be some latino men, doesnt it.




							April 23, 2015 at 9:00 am						








 

Monsta104

Latino men shooting people unlike white men stealing school buses to abduct young kids right?




							April 23, 2015 at 2:51 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Suspects arrested, Holladay homeowner fires shot at accused burglars


News

Police search for suspects accused of slashing man with knife, stealing wallet


News

SLC police: officer shoots knife-wielding man after responding to woman’s screams


News

Suspect dead after man with concealed carry permit intervenes in alleged carjacking in Orem


News

Dallas police HQ shooting: Suspect killed during standoff



 


News

NYPD officer Brian Moore, who was shot in head, dies


News

LAPD chief concerned if officer’s fatal shooting of unarmed man was ‘justified’


News

Bullet grazes man’s back after early morning shooting in Sandy


News

Alleged home invader fatally shot by homeowner lived nearby, may have been intoxicated


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City



 


News

Police ID suspect fatally shot in alleged Orem carjacking; shooter not identified


News

Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera


News

Orem store security cameras catch bystanders helping officer take down suspect






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















