Suspects break into cars at Fishers YMCA, lead police on chase | Fox 59 
Suspects break into cars at Fishers YMCA, lead police on chase | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Suspects break into cars at Fishers YMCA, lead police on chase

Posted 7:50 PM, April 8, 2015, by Liz Gelardi, Updated at 07:52pm, April 8, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





HAMILTON COUNTY, Ind. (March 8, 2015) – Police are still looking for two suspects who broke into cars at the YMCA and led officers on a chase. According to witnesses, two men were spotted smashing car windows at the Fishers YMCA. The incidents happened around 8:30 p.m. on Tuesday.
Fishers Police believe the suspects fled it a car. Officers attempted to pull them over and that’s when the chase began.
YMCA patron James Gucinski was on his way to the gym with his two kids when he saw police attempting to pull over the vehicle.
“He was moving at a high rate of speed when he went by us so they were definitely in full pursuit,” said Gucinski.
Poilce reports show the suspects headed westbound on 116th street while driving a white Kia. The car was ditched near Gray Road in Carmel, at that point the men took off through a wooded area. The Hamilton County Sheriff’s Department assisted in the search efforts and brought in tracking dogs. The suspects were not located.
Officials with the YMCA said have a good relationship with Fishers Police and plan to talk with the department about security. Police want to remind YMCA members to secure their valuables and avoid leaving belongings in their cars.
“We always recommend to all our members and guests to secure their valuables we have a lot of great options here inside of the building. We definitely recommend not to leave anything in your car and lots of different options that are all free,” said Jake Reardon-Mcsoley,  Associate Executive Director of the Fishers YMCA.
Police have not said if the suspects managed to steal anything during the break-ins.



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

Police: Man tried to steal rims from car in Fishers neighborhood; second suspect sought


News

Two in custody after police chase at Castleton Square Mall


News

Police justified in White County shooting


News

Police guidelines determine when to pursue suspects in a chase


Crimetracker News

Man arrested in downtown Indianapolis after two-county chase stemming from road rage incident



 


National & World News

Cleveland officer found not guilty in killing unarmed pair


News

Suspect in police chase causes fatal accident near Fountain Square; woman killed identified


News

Police vehicle hit after early morning police chase


Crimetracker News

Two officers injured, suspect dead in shooting on east side of Indianapolis


National & World News

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect



 


News

Police searching for impersonator who pulled over, attacked Castleton man


News

Suspect dies after multi-state, multi-county chase and hostage situation


National & World News

Guard dead after shooting at U.S. Census Bureau headquarters






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















