Police guidelines determine when to pursue suspects in a chase | Fox 59 
Police guidelines determine when to pursue suspects in a chase | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police guidelines determine when to pursue suspects in a chase

Posted 11:24 PM, June 9, 2015, by Shannon Houser 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





MARION COUNTY, Ind. (June 9, 2015) – The suspect responsible for a deadly crash on the city’s southeast side Monday morning was involved in a police chase just minutes before.
Officers in Beech Grove initiated a chase after Matthew Edmonds allegedly stole from a Walmart. The chase lasted less than six minutes and ended after officers determined the risk factors were too high. The suspect continued driving at a high rate of speed, running through a red light, and crashing into two cars.
Donna Niblock, 63, of Indianapolis, was killed in the crash. Her daughter, LaDonna Rogers, 37, is in serious condition. Rogers’ 11-year-old son remains in critical condition at Riley Hospital for Children at IU Health.
The chase was called off before the suspect crashed.
Beech Grove Deputy Chief Michael Maurice says the officers acted in line with a matrix system used in high speed chases.
“It’s basically a tool that we give them to help them determine when they should continue or engage a pursuit and when they should terminate it,” Maurice said.
On average, Beech Grove only sees about one to two pursuits per month. Indianapolis Metropolitan police engage in about 60 over the same span. They have a similar system used for officers to determine both when to start and stop a pursuit.
“We then have to decide if it is safe for us to pursue, whether or not the offense that we believe is committed at the time of the stop is of serious enough nature to continue a pursuit or state a pursuit,” explained IMPD Lt. Richard Riddle.
Riddle said the chase was called off Monday morning because it was nearing a school zone. He said if the chase would have gone through that area at 3 a.m., it would have likely ensued. The time of day is one factor that goes into determining if a police chase should continue.
“Traffic, weather conditions, daylight, nighttime, what we’re pursuing for, how the suspect is driving, it gives them a list of risk factors,” explained Maurice.
Officers also determine if the chase fits the crime. A scale of the seriousness of an offense is also used.
“There’s infraction misdemeanors, there’s property felony and then there’s high risk felony such a murders or serious bodily injury,” Maurice said.
He added, the officers are trained on the matrix system to determine when to make those calls during a chase.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash


News

Suspect in police chase causes fatal accident near Fountain Square; woman killed identified


Crimetracker News

Suspects break into cars at Fishers YMCA, lead police on chase


News

Beech Grove police shoot, kill gun wielding man


News

Two in custody after police chase at Castleton Square Mall



 


National & World News

Cleveland officer found not guilty in killing unarmed pair


News

Police justified in White County shooting


National & World News

‘I ain’t no football player either,’ Civilian stands in street to end motorcycle chase


Crimetracker News

Officer arrested in OWI case investigated Beech Grove Walmart fight


Crimetracker News

Man in custody after police chase leads to crash in Avon



 


News

Police locate vehicle involved in northwest Indianapolis hit-and-run accident


National & World News

Guard dead after shooting at U.S. Census Bureau headquarters


News

Three people in handcuffs after domestic dispute turns into vehicle chase






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















