Beech Grove police shoot, kill gun wielding man | Fox 59 
Beech Grove police shoot, kill gun wielding man | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Beech Grove police shoot, kill gun wielding man

Posted 11:05 PM, June 8, 2015, by Tanae Howard 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





BEECH GROVE, Ind. (June 8, 2015) — Beech Grove police arrived at a home on Fourth Avenue after neighbors called to report a man with a gun. When officers arrived Monday afternoon they found 54-year-old James Johnson with a gun in his hand. Police tell FOX59 the man appeared to be intoxicated and suicidal.
“At that point he left his front porch with a firearm and was walking toward the officers moving the gun around in a fashion that would be antagonistic toward them saying ‘shoot me, shoot me’ the whole time,” said Major Tom Hurrle with the Beech Grove Police Department.
Neighbor Jazmine Johnson, who is not related to the deceased man, witnessed the incident and says her neighbor had a history of mental illness and had gone to the hospital the night before.
“Seen all the officers surrounding my neighbor telling him to put the gun down and he did not put the gun down. The next thing you know I hear one gun shot and he was down on the ground dead,” said Johnson.
One officer fired a single shot killing the suspect. Police say they’re trained to deal with suicidal, intoxicated or mentally ill people but they always have to consider their safety first and the neighbors who were standing by.
“We can’t gamble away their safety thinking that well maybe he’s just emotionally disturbed let him walk and talk this out and eventually he’ll just stop. We don’t have the option to see and hope that that’s going to be the case,” said Hurrle.
Police say they responded to Johnson’s home four times in the past eight months.
The officer who fired the fatal shot has been placed on paid administrative leave.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

Beech Grove police call police action shooting ‘suicide by an oficer’


Crimetracker News

Beech Grove residents start community watch group after crime increase


Crimetracker News

Officer arrested in OWI case investigated Beech Grove Walmart fight


News

Greenwood man accused of raping senior citizen reportedly confessed to mother


Crimetracker News

Man with gun fatally shot by Fort Wayne police officer



 


News What's Trending

Mom involved in vicious Beech Grove Walmart fight says confrontation started over racist remark


News

Family says man feared arrest before fatal police shooting


News

Police: Neighbor pulls gun on parent after backyard baseball game


News

Greenwood police arrest man accused of beating and raping an elderly woman


Crimetracker News

Beech Grove officials to hold meeting Thursday to address recent crime



 


News

Greenwood officer shoots dog after he says it charged him


News

Police searching for suspect who beat, robbed 86-year-old veteran


News

Beech Grove officials meet with Walmart management after viral fight






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















