Beech Grove police call police action shooting ‘suicide by an oficer’ | Fox 59 
Beech Grove police call police action shooting ‘suicide by an oficer’ | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Beech Grove police call police action shooting ‘suicide by an oficer’

Posted 3:44 PM, June 8, 2015, by Kylee Wierks - Web Producer, Updated at 09:58pm, June 8, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





BEECH GROVE, Ind. (June 8, 2015) –Beech Grove Police are calling Monday afternoon’s police action shooting “suicide by an officer.”
Police responded to the  the intersection of South 4th Avenue and Main Street around 2:45 p.m. When they arrived, they found a man sitting on his porch with a gun.
Officers asked the man, later identified as 54-year-old James Johnson, to put down the weapon. According to police, Johnson was shouting out, “Shoot me, shoot me.”
At that time, police say the man began to make gestures with the gun, and he came off of his porch and started walking toward officers.
“The officers responded with verbal commands to drop the weapon, put the weapon down and he did not comply he raised the firearm in their direction and at that point he was shot by one of the officers,” said Major Tom Hurrle, Beech Grove Police.
Johnson was declared dead at the scene. The officer involved has been placed on paid administrative leave.
Police say they have made four runs to Johnson’s home in the past eight months. The circumstances surrounding those calls are unknown.
 



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Beech Grove police shoot, kill gun wielding man


News

Family says man feared arrest before fatal police shooting


Crimetracker News

Man with gun fatally shot by Fort Wayne police officer


Crimetracker News

Officer arrested in OWI case investigated Beech Grove Walmart fight


News

Greenwood man accused of raping senior citizen reportedly confessed to mother



 


Crimetracker News

Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash


News What's Trending

Mom involved in vicious Beech Grove Walmart fight says confrontation started over racist remark


News

Greenwood police arrest man accused of beating and raping an elderly woman


News

Greenwood officer shoots dog after he says it charged him


National & World News

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect



 


News

Man shot and killed by police on Indy’s southwest side


Crimetracker News

Beech Grove residents start community watch group after crime increase


News

Man killed in police-action shooting remembered by friends, family, IMPD






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















