Greenwood police arrest man accused of beating and raping an elderly woman | Fox 59 
Greenwood police arrest man accused of beating and raping an elderly woman | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Greenwood police arrest man accused of beating and raping an elderly woman

Posted 5:12 PM, May 1, 2015, by Jill Glavan, Greg Margason - Web Producer and Kylee Wierks - Web Producer, Updated at 06:34pm, May 2, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





GREENWOOD, Ind. (May 2, 2015) – Greenwood police arrested 42-year-old Ira S. Link of Beech Grove in connection with beating and raping an elderly woman.
The brutal attack occurred shortly after 9 a.m. on Friday in the Valle Vista subdivision which is located in Greenwood.
The rape survivor, a woman over 70-years-old, lives alone. She answered a knock at her door sometime before 9 a.m. and told police she was immediately attacked by the suspect.
“(He) started to struggle with her, forced her back into her residence, where she sexually assaulted and raped,” Greenwood Assistant Chief Matthew Fillenwarth said.
Fillenwarth said her life was threatened repeatedly by the suspect during the assault.
Investigators distributed fliers in the neighborhood late Friday, where Lorrie Garrigus was already posting to her Next Door app to let people know what happened.
“(I’m) really kind of shocked it would happen this close,” Garrigus said.
Fillenwarth, meanwhile, said the woman was alive and being treated at St. Francis South Hospital. He described her as traumatized by the attack.
“She’s a tough lady. She fought and her injuries indicated that,” Fillenwarth said.
The suspect was wearing a black knit mask at the time of the assault and was described as having tattoos on his lower legs and possibly a tattoo on his neck. A black Jeffrey Bean extra-large jacket was left at the residence.
Early Saturday morning, Greenwood PD Detectives were notified by the Beech Grove Police Department that they had a possible suspect in this case.
Greenwood Detectives responded to the 1100 block of Bethel Avenue in Beech Grove where Beech Grove police had Link detained.
Link was transported to the Greenwood Police Department where he was interviewed by detectives and placed under arrest. Link is charged with Rape a Level 1 Felony, Burglary a Level 1 Felony and Confinement Level 3 Felony. Link is currently incarcerated in the Johnson County Jail and is being held on $192,000 bond.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Greenwood man accused of raping senior citizen reportedly confessed to mother


Crimetracker News

Greenwood neighbors may have spotted suspect before rape, now want community crime watch


News

Greenwood officer shoots dog after he says it charged him


News

Bloomington police searching for suspect after sexual assault of 73-year-old woman


News

Prosecutor says Greenwood rape suspect would face more jail time if not for ‘hug-a-thug’ law



 


News

Johnson County prosecutor outraged over ‘hug a thug’ law


National & World News

Police: Teen boy stomps girlfriend’s two-year-old daughter to death


News

Police: Man threatens elderly woman over pain meds


News

Man in critical condition after police-involved shooting on Indy’s south side


News

Greenwood neighborhood looks to increase security



 


Crimetracker News

Pregnant woman tased, kicked in stomach during attempted robbery


News

Police identify elderly couple seriously hurt after attack in house on Indianapolis’ west side


Crimetracker News

Woman shoots, fends off three men in early morning attempted robbery






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















