Police identify person of interest in shooting that left boy paralyzed | Fox 59 
Police identify person of interest in shooting that left boy paralyzed | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police identify person of interest in shooting that left boy paralyzed

Posted 11:01 AM, April 6, 2015, by Matt Adams - Web Producer, Updated at 10:53pm, April 6, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





 
INDIANAPOLIS (April 6, 2015) – Indianapolis Metropolitan police are questioning a man who may have information about a shooting last week that left an 8-year-old boy paralyzed.
On Tuesday, March 31, IMPD officers were dispatched to Community Empire for Less used appliance store, 1301 W. 30th St. They found an 8-year-old boy who’d been shot. Investigators said the victim was hit in the arm; the bullet then exited the other side up his body. He was taken to Riley Hospital for Children at IU Health in serious condition.
Employees at the store said the boy and his cousin were playing outside while waiting for a family member to pick him up. He was paralyzed as a result of the shooting, police said.
On Monday morning, police said they wanted to question a man about the shooting. The man, thought to be between 45 and 65 years old, was driving a plum colored 2001-2005 Ford Explorer Sport Track short bed pickup truck. He rushed out of the business and went southbound on Elmira Street immediately after the shooting.
Monday afternoon, police said the man was identified and is cooperating with the investigation.


#IMPDNow The person of interest wanted for questioning involving 8yr. old shooting victim has been ID. He is cooperating. Thank you #Indy
— IMPD (@IMPD_News) April 6, 2015


Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (4 images)






 





Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Suspect in shooting of 7-year-old Muncie boy spotted in Ohio


Crimetracker News

Police investigate reported attempted abduction on south side of Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Hail of gunfire leaves one man dead, another wounded, and cars damaged


Crimetracker News

One suspect arrested, another sought in Muncie shooting that injured 7-year-old boy


Crimetracker News

Man in serious condition after shooting on near west side of Indianapolis



 


Crimetracker News

Police seek man in connection with shooting that paralyzed teenager


News

Teen to be charged as an adult in murder of 19-year-old Warren Central grad


Crimetracker News

Man possibly connected with the shooting of 3 children and 2 women being questioned


Crimetracker News

		1 hour ago	

Police investigate shooting death of 18-year-old Muncie teen


News

One man dead, one in serious condition after two separate shootings on far east side



 


Crimetracker News

Suspect arrested in connection with road rage homicide case


News

Police search for suspects after man shot while mowing lawn on east side


News

IMPD officer opens fire after avoiding speeding car; driver arrested on OWI charge






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















