Suspect in shooting of 7-year-old Muncie boy spotted in Ohio | Fox 59 
Suspect in shooting of 7-year-old Muncie boy spotted in Ohio | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Suspect in shooting of 7-year-old Muncie boy spotted in Ohio

Posted 5:56 PM, May 21, 2015, by Shannon Houser, Updated at 06:58pm, May 21, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





BROOKVILLE, OH (May 21, 2015) – A man accused in a shooting that left two people hurt is still on the run. Treyvon Bennett was spotted in Brookville, Ohio on Wednesday, nearly 70 miles from where the shooting took place in Muncie on May 6.
A 17-year-old male and 7-year-old boy were shot. Police say Bennett and another suspect, D’Ante Davis, are responsible for the shooting. They say the 17-year-old victim was the intended target. Davis was arrested, but Bennett is still on the run.
D’Ante Davis (left) and Treyvon Bennett (right).
Police in Brookville were patrolling in an area near the police department on Wednesday, when they came across a distressed motorist.
Major Tom Simon said the driver claimed they were having engine problems. The passenger, later determined to be Bennett, said he was going inside a nearby apartment to grab water. When police were told the man was Bennett, they called in backup, including U.S. Marshals. A woman refused to let police inside the apartment for some time, but when she finally did, police say Bennett fled, likely through a back door.
Also on Wednesday, an initial court hearing was held for Davis on unrelated charges of armed robbery. Davis’ family and friends presented letters to the media stating they believe Davis was there, but he wasn’t involved with the shooting. They said there was another man present at the time of the shooting that resembles Davis and police have the wrong guy.
The statements say:
“D’Ante Davis came to my house and told me they were shooting and he took off running.”
“When I heard gun sounds, I didn’t see D’Ante.”
Davis’ attorney, Michael Quirk, said the statements from the family were presented to help prove his innocence. The statements have not been investigated by the Delaware County Prosecutors Office and are not part of evidence.
Bennett is still considered armed and dangerous. Davis will appear in court again on June 3 for a bond hearing on the aggravated robbery charges. The initial hearing for the charges of attempted murder will be held July 17.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

One suspect arrested, another sought in Muncie shooting that injured 7-year-old boy


Crimetracker News

Police make second arrest in shooting that injured Muncie boy


News

Several suspects sought after 7-year-old boy hit by stray bullet, teen shot in hip


Crimetracker News

		1 hour ago	

Police investigate shooting death of 18-year-old Muncie teen


National & World News

Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime



 


Crimetracker News

Police identify person of interest in shooting that left boy paralyzed


News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


News

Muncie mom arrested for leaving 3-year-old son with intoxicated minors


News

One person dead, two others hurt after late Sunday night shootings


Crimetracker News

Hail of gunfire leaves one man dead, another wounded, and cars damaged



 


National & World News

Police charge 16-year-old in connection with Ohio quadruple homicide


National & World News

Woman who helped police catch Charleston church shooting suspect credits divine intervention


News

Police searching for suspect who beat, robbed 86-year-old veteran






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















