Police make second arrest in shooting that injured Muncie boy | Fox 59 
Police make second arrest in shooting that injured Muncie boy | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police make second arrest in shooting that injured Muncie boy

Posted 7:32 AM, June 2, 2015, by Matt Adams - Web Producer, Updated at 04:57pm, June 2, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 
Treyvon Bennett 


×
Police make second arrest in shooting that injured Muncie boy


 Treyvon Bennett


MUNCIE, Ind. (June 2, 2015) – Police made a second arrest in connection with the shooting of a 7-year-old Muncie boy last month.
Treyvon Bennett, 19, was taken into custody Monday afternoon. According to the Muncie Star Press, Bennett surrendered to U.S. marshals without incident at a home near Lawrence.
Bennett was wanted in connection with a May 6 shooting that seriously injured a 7-year-old boy, who was shot in the hand and abdomen while playing in a yard. Police said gunfire struck the boy after Bennett and D’ante Davis, 16, opened fire at another teen, injuring him.
Earlier images released of D’Ante Davis (left) and Treyvon Bennett (right)
Bennett was nearly captured two weeks ago in Ohio but managed to elude authorities.
Davis’ family maintains the 16-year-old was not involved in the shooting and that witnesses mistook him for someone else.
Charges in the case include two counts of attempted murder and aggravated battery.



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

One suspect arrested, another sought in Muncie shooting that injured 7-year-old boy


News

Suspect in shooting of 7-year-old Muncie boy spotted in Ohio


News

Several suspects sought after 7-year-old boy hit by stray bullet, teen shot in hip


National & World News

Police charge 16-year-old in connection with Ohio quadruple homicide


Crimetracker News

Suspect arrested in connection with road rage homicide case



 


News

Two minors facing murder charges after violent weekend


News

Muncie drug operation busted after selling to undercover agent


National & World News

Baltimore’s uneasy peace: Freddie Gray protests spread


Crimetracker News

Police seek man in connection with shooting that paralyzed teenager


Crimetracker News

Bizarre hit-and-run turns violent in Muncie



 


News

Muncie mom arrested for leaving 3-year-old son with intoxicated minors


Crimetracker News

		1 hour ago	

Police investigate shooting death of 18-year-old Muncie teen


Crimetracker News

Police make arrest in hit-and-run accident that critically injured 23-year-old woman






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















