Police investigate shooting death of 18-year-old Muncie teen | Fox 59 
Police investigate shooting death of 18-year-old Muncie teen | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police investigate shooting death of 18-year-old Muncie teen

Posted 10:02 AM, July 3, 2015, by Amanda Rakes - Digital Manager, Updated at 09:56pm, July 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





MUNCIE, Ind. (July 3, 2015)— Officers with the Muncie Police Department are investigating  the homicide of an 18-year-old man.
Christian Michael Orebaugh was fatally shot just before 11 p.m. Thursday at his house in the 200 block of West 23rd Street.
Muncie police say Orebaugh’s roommate was inside the house when authorities arrived, but that individual is not considered a suspect.
In the past,Orebaugh’s residence was a known drug house, according to Muncie Police–the motive for Thursday’s shooting is still unknown.
While the shooting is still under investigation, neighbors have their suspicious about the cameras that are posted near the front door of the home.
“It makes you wonder what was going on inside of the house at the time. If there are cameras you know they are up to something,” said neighbor Mitch Teal.
“There were several cars in and out of there late at night. It always made me wonder,” said neighbor Linda Rigel.
Orebaugh’s sister spoke to FOX59 about her brother, who was expecting a baby. She said he recently graduated Cowan High School.
An autopsy was performed on the teen Friday.


"He has a kid on the way, why would you take him? That baby can't have a dad now."–Christian's younger sister pic.twitter.com/Xm81YY9Ip4
— Charlie De Mar (@CharlieDeMar) July 3, 2015

 



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Suspect in shooting of 7-year-old Muncie boy spotted in Ohio


Crimetracker News

One suspect arrested, another sought in Muncie shooting that injured 7-year-old boy


News

Muncie grandmother holds intruder at gunpoint


Crimetracker News

Muncie mom charged with neglect after overdosing with six kids


Crimetracker News

Police make second arrest in shooting that injured Muncie boy



 


Crimetracker News

		1 hour ago	

16-year-old arrested, charged with murder in fatal shooting of Muncie teen


Crimetracker News

Bizarre hit-and-run turns violent in Muncie


News

Landscaper hit by mystery bullet while working in Columbus


National & World News

Muncie woman arrested after allegedly falling asleep while baking cookies


News

Fight over last rib at barbecue results in victim being stabbed with fork



 


News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


News

		20 mins ago	

Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home


News

Several suspects sought after 7-year-old boy hit by stray bullet, teen shot in hip






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















