Police searching for suspect who robbed man in wheelchair on northwest side of Indianapolis | Fox 59 
Police searching for suspect who robbed man in wheelchair on northwest side of Indianapolis | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police searching for suspect who robbed man in wheelchair on northwest side of Indianapolis

Posted 7:13 PM, June 24, 2015, by Alexis McAdams 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (June 24, 2015) – Police are searching for a male suspect who robbed a disabled man Tuesday night on the northwest side.
Timothy Houser, 36, uses a wheelchair due to a genetic disorder. According to IMPD, he was leaving Walmart on Lafayette Road when he was stopped by a man offering to help with his groceries.
“I’m 100% positive that he saw I was handicapped and thought I was an easy target.  It makes me so mad,” says Houser.
The suspect is described as a black male in his twenties with dreadlocks.  Police say he was driving a White Monte Carlo. The suspect climbed into Houser’s van to help unload his groceries, then asked for money.
“I told him all I had was a debit card.  I told him that I didn’t have any cash. But then I looked down on my lap and there was a twenty dollar bill, a five dollar bill and a few one dollar bills that I had just gotten back as change,” says Houser.
Police say the suspect stuck around the Walmart parking lot and then followed Houser’s minivan, waiting for the best time to stop him and rob him. The suspect sped up in front of Houser’s car and cut him off in a northwest side neighborhood.  Then, he got out of his car and approached Houser on the driver’s side window.  The suspect punched Houser in the face  and stole his wallet containing thousands of dollars. The suspect also stole Houser’s handgun.
“He actually grabbed the wheelchair and said, ‘Where is that bag?  Give me that bag!’” says Houser.
If you have any information on the robbery call IMPD or Crime Stoppers.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

Indianapolis police search for suspect who stole thousands of dollars and gun from man in wheelchair


News

Police searching for suspect who beat, robbed 86-year-old veteran


National & World News

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect


News

Police: Robbery motive in northeast side shooting


Crimetracker News

Homeowner, suspect shot in two incidents on northwest side



 


News

Bloomington police searching for suspect after sexual assault of 73-year-old woman


Crimetracker News

Indianapolis police searching for suspect after teen fatally shot on city’s northeast side


Crimetracker News

Suspect wanted in two northwest side gas station robberies


Crimetracker News

Police identify well-dressed criminal as search continues


News

Police search for suspect after Indy 500 pace car stolen from dealership



 


News

Man seriously injured in stabbing on west side of Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Indianapolis police search for man who robbed southwest side bank


Crimetracker News

CVS employees stop robbery suspect, pin him down until police arrive






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















