Burlington Police searching for suspect in attempted armed robbery at gas station | myfox8.com 
Burlington Police searching for suspect in attempted armed robbery at gas station | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Burlington Police searching for suspect in attempted armed robbery at gas station

Posted 11:31 am, June 4, 2015, by Web Staff, Updated at 11:35am, June 4, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 


BURLINGTON, N.C. — Burlington Police are searching for a suspect who robbed a gas station clerk at gunpoint as he was leaving the business. 
The robbery happened just after midnight at the Fairway One Stop located at 1382 South Church Street.
When the suspect approached the clerk and pulled out a handgun, the clerk ran around the building and escaped.
The suspect was last seen fleeing the scene on foot near South Church Street.
According to police, the suspect is approximately 5-foot-9 and was wearing black pants, a black hooded jacket with the hood covering his face, a grey/blue book bag worn on the front of his body and black and white shoes.
There were no injuries during the incident.
The investigation is ongoing and anyone with information related to this investigation is asked to contact the Burlington Police Department at (336) 229-3500 or Burlington / Alamance Crimestoppers at (336) 229-7100.

36.085314
-79.452751









Filed in: News Topics: armed robbery 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Suspect on the run after robbing, striking Burlington gas station clerk


News

1 suspect arrested, 2 on the run after armed robbery in Burlington


News

Two armed robberies reported at Winston-Salem businesses


News

Man charged in robbery, kidnapping at Burlington convenience store


News

1 arrested, 1 sought in Burlington homicide



 


News

Burlington police looking for hit-and-run driver


News

Sheetz in Kernersville, Citgo in Winston-Salem robbed at gunpoint


News

Burlington police searching for hit-and-run driver


News

One dead, one injured in Burlington shooting


News

Winston-Salem man arrested after robbery, car and foot chase



 


News

Police searching for men who robbed BP, Circle K in Greensboro


News

Burlington Hardees robbed


News

2 sought for armed robbery of Winston-Salem business






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















