Suspect identified in shooting that injured 2 women, 3 children | Fox 59 
Suspect identified in shooting that injured 2 women, 3 children | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Suspect identified in shooting that injured 2 women, 3 children

Posted 8:56 PM, April 10, 2015, by Greg Margason - Web Producer 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 
Domonique Stone 


×
Suspect identified in shooting that injured 2 women, 3 children


 Domonique Stone


INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (April 10, 2015)– Police are searching for a man wanted for his alleged involvement in a shooting that left two women and three children injured.
On April 5 officers responded to the 5000 block of Wildflower Court, near West 59th Street and Georgetown Road, on a report of multiple people shot. Five victims were located inside the residence with apparent gunshot wounds and other injuries.
Shooting victims Shelly Higgens-Jones (left) and Raychel Fitzpatrick (right)
An arrest warrant has been issued for Domonique Stone, 24, who is one of three suspects believed to be involved in the shooting. Stone faces charges of burglary, armed robbery, robbery and carrying a handgun without a license.
A different suspect was seen entering a 2002 silver Ford Focus with Indiana license plate number WOJ856. This same vehicle was stolen during a carjacking earlier in the same afternoon.
Anyone with information on the whereabouts of Stone, the identities of the other two suspects involved, or the whereabouts of the suspect vehicle is urged to call Crime Stoppers of Central Indiana at 262-TIPS (8477). Stone is to be considered armed and dangerous.


Related stories

Person of interest sought in shooting of 3 children, 2 women
Five people including three children shot on northwest side of Indianapolis




Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

Man possibly connected with the shooting of 3 children and 2 women being questioned


Crimetracker News

Person of interest sought in shooting of 3 children, 2 women


Crimetracker News

Five people including three children shot on northwest side of Indianapolis


National & World News

Guard dead after shooting at U.S. Census Bureau headquarters


News

Police: Robbery motive in northeast side shooting



 


Crimetracker News

One suspect arrested, another sought in Muncie shooting that injured 7-year-old boy


Crimetracker News

Woman shoots, fends off three men in early morning attempted robbery


News

Person shot in the face on east side of Indianapolis


News

Murder of 82-year-old man may have been retaliation


News

Suspect accused in fatal shooting turns self in



 


News

Suspect in shooting of 7-year-old Muncie boy spotted in Ohio


Morning News News

Suspect in North Carolina college killing captured sleeping on beach


News

One person dead, two others hurt after late Sunday night shootings






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















