SLCPD officer cleared in March 3 shooting that left suspect critically injured | fox13now.com 
SLCPD officer cleared in March 3 shooting that left suspect critically injured | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







SLCPD officer cleared in March 3 shooting that left suspect critically injured

Posted 12:50 pm, April 15, 2015, by David Wells, Updated at 12:52pm, April 15, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
SLCPD officer cleared in March 3 shooting that left suspect critically injured


 


SALT LAKE CITY — The Salt Lake County District Attorney’s Office released a statement Wednesday saying an officer with the Salt Lake City Police Department was legally justified in using deadly force against a suspect who allegedly pointed a gun at another officer during a traffic stop.
Authorities said the altercation started when officers pulled over a truck driven by 29-year-old Salvador Flores near 1160 S. State St. at about 3:30 a.m. on March 3.
Police pulled over Flores after receiving a report that Flores and his passenger, Amal Hourieh, appeared to be “casing” a nearby 7-Eleven store, the statement said. After stopping Flores, officers asked both Flores and Hourieh to exit the vehicle.
According to the statement, officers observed what appeared to be a shotgun on the floor of the truck and a holster on Flores’ right hip.
“Officer Ruff saw Flores’ holster and put out his arm to sweep Mr. Flores’ side and hod Mr. Flores’ arm while Officer Ruff assessed Mr. Flores’ holster.  As Officer Ruff held Mr. Flores’ right arm, Mr. Flores turned and pulled away from Officer Ruff and Mr. Flores drew another handgun from his waistband with his left hand,” the statement said.
At that point, Flores allegedly pointed the gun at Ruff.
“Officer Hansen said he heard Officer Ruff yell ‘gun!’ and saw Mr. Flores draw and point a weapon at Officer Ruff. Officer Hansen said he drew his duty weapon, pointed at Mr. Flores and fired three times,” the statement said.
Two of the bullets struck Flores in the torso. Flores was taken to a hospital in critical condition, but he survived the incident and was later booked into the Salt Lake County Metro Jail.
Police later determined the gun Flores allegedly pointed at Ruff was a pellet gun or airsoft-style pistol that had been painted black and “very closely resembled a a full-size frame, semi-automatic handgun,” the statement said, and the holstered firearm was a Colt 1911 model .45-caliber handgun.
Flores faces charges that include two counts of felony assault, one count of a weapons violation by a restricted person, one count of resisting arrest and other misdemeanor charges.

40.743427
-111.888333



Related stories

Man shot by police after traffic stop released from hospital, booked into jail
Police identify suspect officer shot during Salt Lake City traffic stop




Filed in: News Topics: crime, officer-involved shooting, salvador flores 













 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Body cam video released after high-speed chase through Zion National Park


News

DA rules officer was justified in fatal shooting in Draper, cites body cam footage


News

Man arrested after assaulting WVC officer, fleeing, police say


News

Suspect in NYPD cop shooting faces attempted murder charges


News

SLC police: officer shoots knife-wielding man after responding to woman’s screams



 


News

Suspect leads police on chase through airport, golf course before arrest


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan


News

Two gang members arrested in SLC; one accused of attacking police dog


News

Police search for suspects accused of spraying Salt Lake home with bullets


News

Chris Burbank no longer chief of Salt Lake City PD



 


News

NYPD officer Brian Moore, who was shot in head, dies


News

Shoplifting suspect evades officers during chase, rams squad car to escape


News Politics

Lawsuit over sexual harassment at SLC PD likely to go forward, even after chief’s resignation






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















