Police identify suspect officer shot during Salt Lake City traffic stop | fox13now.com 
Police identify suspect officer shot during Salt Lake City traffic stop | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police identify suspect officer shot during Salt Lake City traffic stop

Posted 6:41 am, March 3, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and Scott McKane, Updated at 01:46pm, March 3, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





29-year-old Salvador M. Flores
SALT LAKE CITY – Authorities have identified the suspect in the officer-involved shooting at 29-year-old Salvador Miranda Flores who remains in critical condition.
Authorities said the altercation started when officers pulled over a truck near 1160 S. State St. at about 3:30 a.m. Tuesday.
Police have not confirmed much information but did shots were fired during the traffic stop and no officers were injured.
Officers said two guns were found near Flores after the shooting.
28-year-old Amal Hourieh
Police said a woman, 28-year-old Amal Hourieh, was also in the truck during the shooting.
She has been arrested for outstanding warrants.
Authorities said the officers were wearing body cameras.
Check back with Fox 13 for the latest updates.

40.743481
-111.888332




Filed in: News Topics: salt lake city, shooting 








			6 comments		




 

ANOTHERBOB

And now we have another puke who will unable to attend the next police brutality demonstration.  It’s a win win.  No police officer’s were hurt and another criminal is off the streets.




							March 3, 2015 at 10:11 am						








 

boom

we’ll see when the details come to light




							March 3, 2015 at 10:40 am						








 

ANOTHERBOB

Are you going to suggest that Salvador Miranda Flores was on his way to Bible school with a box of baby kittens when he was accosted by some big bad police officer who was just desperate to find somebody he could shoot?




							March 3, 2015 at 11:34 am						








 

Hunter

When they are out of jail boom let’s give them your address and you can have them as house guests.




							March 3, 2015 at 1:40 pm						










 

ANOTHERBOB

The puke was restricted from owning or possessing firearms.  The female had  outstanding warrants.  Now when Amal Hourieh gets out of jail she’s going to have to go out and round herself up a new boyfriend.




							March 3, 2015 at 6:39 pm						








 

bob

I’m sure he’s in the country legally.  Illegals never commit crimes.  They are a fine addition to our multi-cultural family, and nothing but a positive for your society and our economy.
Time for my Prozac.




							March 3, 2015 at 10:08 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

SLCPD officer cleared in March 3 shooting that left suspect critically injured


News

SLC police: officer shoots knife-wielding man after responding to woman’s screams


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes


News

4 arrested after police chase through Salt Lake City


News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City



 


News

Police search for suspects accused of spraying Salt Lake home with bullets


News

Suspects arrested, Holladay homeowner fires shot at accused burglars


News

		26 mins ago	

Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process


News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests


News

Utah family locked themselves in room as suspect broke in, threatened them with knife



 


News

Man on motorcycle killed after hitting back of car in Salt Lake City


News

LAPD chief concerned if officer’s fatal shooting of unarmed man was ‘justified’


News

2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















