Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City | fox13now.com 
Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City

Posted 4:02 pm, May 6, 2015, by FOX 13 News 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 
A woman in police custody following a pursuit involving a reportedly stolen vehicle.  


×
Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City


 A woman in police custody following a pursuit involving a reportedly stolen vehicle. 


SALT LAKE CITY — Police are searching for two men that led them on a chase through Salt Lake City Wednesday afternoon in a vehicle that was reported to be stolen.
Police in Salt Lake City said one of their officers spotted a red Dodge Charger that was reported to be stolen out of West Valley City, but when they tried to pull it over for a traffic stop near 700 North and Redwood Road the vehicle fled.
After a brief chase police lost sight of the vehicle, but they had observed a woman being dropped off during the chase so they went to speak with her.
“We were notified that the car may have gone behind the apartment building,” said Sgt. Richard Lewis of the Salt Lake City Police Department. “We found the car behind the apartment building, empty, and [the officer] came back here and found the possible suspect.”
Police found the woman in the area of 1300 West and 491 North, and they said she told officers she was just a passenger who got a ride and that she didn’t really know the two men. The woman was taken into custody, and the West Valley City Police Department is investigating the case.



Filed in: News Topics: police chase, salt lake city police department, stolen vehicle, West Valley City Police Department 













 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests


News

Two gang members arrested in SLC; one accused of attacking police dog


News

Police find woman’s body after car spotted upside down in Jordan River


News

Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars


News

Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody



 


News

Woman arrested for DUI after leading police on chase through West Valley City


News

Shoplifting suspect evades officers during chase, rams squad car to escape


News

4 arrested after police chase through Salt Lake City


News

Intoxicated man arrested for allegedly breaking into WVC home, sexually assaulting woman inside


News

FBI sniper rifle stolen from hotel parking lot days before Obama’s visit to Utah



 


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes


News

Police: Cedar City man leads authorities on pursuit through Zion National Park in stolen deputy’s vehicle


News

Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















