Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody | fox13now.com 
Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody

Posted 8:16 am, April 9, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and Scott McKane, Updated at 03:07pm, April 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





WEST VALLEY CITY, Utah – Two 21-year-old suspects are in custody after a police chase that ended with a truck in the water and one of the suspects without her shoes. 
Authorities said they tried to pull over a truck near 2500 W. and 2700 S. but it sped off.
Police said the Nissan Titan was a rental car that was reported stolen.
Officers chased the truck but stopped the pursuit for safety reasons.
However, another police unit happened to be nearby and saw the truck pull into a mobile home park.
Police said they surrounded the single entrance neighborhood and said the suspects did everything they could to escape.
“Right back here is a fence but it’s not fenced into a parking lot, it’s got a gate there it actually goes into a canal,” West Valley City Police Lt. Lamont Cox said. “I’m pretty sure he didn’t know what was on the other side so they broke through the gate and into the canal and bailed out of the truck.”
Officers caught the driver, Darren Terry, and found a woman’s purse and shoes near the canal.
They called in a K9 unit and found the woman, Angelica Chavez, who was riding in the passenger seat.


40.716098
-111.958065









Filed in: News Topics: crime, west valley city 













 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City


News

Woman arrested for DUI after leading police on chase through West Valley City


News

Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars


News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests


News

Family of woman killed in crash while crossing street in West Valley City speaks



 


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes


News

West Valley City assault, robbery suspect escapes police chase


News

Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera


News

Suspect leads police on chase through airport, golf course before arrest


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City



 


News

West Valley City officers searching for pawn shop burglary suspects caught on camera


News

Suspect in custody after Centerville man checking on his chickens finds, tackles fugitive


News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















