Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars | fox13now.com 
Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars

Posted 11:01 am, June 5, 2015, by David Wells 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars


 


WEST VALLEY CITY — Police arrested a suspect after a brief chase in West Valley City Thursday night.
According to West Valley City police, it started when the Metro Gang Unit recognized the suspect and contacted WVCPD for assistance in arresting him.
“Our patrol car attempted to stop the suspect. They didn’t pull right over. They pulled into the neighhorhood. When they did pull over, both the driver and the suspect fled from the vehicle,” said Lt. Dalan Taylor, West Valley City Police Department. “A short foot pursuit ensued and officers were able to track down both of the suspects.”
At one point during the pursuit, an officer from the Unified Police Department was involved in an accident.
“When the suspects fled, there was actually three or four patrol cars that were here. One of the Unified officers backed up to head around the corner to head the suspect off, didn’t see a vehicle which was stopped behind him at a stop sign and backed into that car,” Taylor said.”There’s […] a complaint of minor injuries in the vehicle that got hit and that Unified officer did end up going to the hospital with some minor injuries.”
Police arrested Richard Trujillo in connection with the incident.
Trujillo faces charges of possession of amphetamine, failure to stop at the command of a law enforcement officer, possession of drug paraphernalia, distribution of a controlled substance, possessing or receiving stolen property and fleeing.



Filed in: News Topics: crime, police chase, west valley city 








			1 Comment		




 

ANOTHERBOB

Hopefully they’ll throw the book at this drug dealing puke.  There is no place for Mr. Trujillo in decent society.




							June 5, 2015 at 12:03 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City


News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests


News

Shoplifting suspect evades officers during chase, rams squad car to escape


News

Two gang members arrested in SLC; one accused of attacking police dog


News

Man arrested after assaulting WVC officer, fleeing, police say



 


News

Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody


News

Man swaps old shoes for new pair then hits, injures employee while escaping in vehicle


News

Heavily intoxicated man leads police on high-speed chase, rams several cars in the process


News

Cottonwood Heights police locate large amount of meth after short vehicle pursuit


News

West Valley City assault, robbery suspect escapes police chase



 


News

Suspect dead after man with concealed carry permit intervenes in alleged carjacking in Orem


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City


News

Woman arrested for DUI after leading police on chase through West Valley City






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















