Police still looking for suspect in deadly road rage shooting | Fox 59 
Police still looking for suspect in deadly road rage shooting | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police still looking for suspect in deadly road rage shooting

Posted 5:47 PM, May 4, 2015, by Liz Gelardi, Updated at 06:27pm, May 4, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (May 4, 2015) – Police are still looking for a suspect who shot a man during a fit of road rage. 41-year-old Nicholas Norris died from his injuries. He was shot multiple times and at least once in the head.
Detectives are talking with several witness to find out more information about the Sunday evening incident. The situation escalated when both men pulled into the parking lot of a pawn shop at E. Michigan Street and Rural.
Police said it started when an SUV cut off a motorcycle driven by Norris. Witnesses reported seeing both men continue to cut each other off and perform other illegal traffic maneuvers.
“There were some things throw outside of a window at the motorcyclist and at that point the driver or the occupant of the SUV got out of his car,” said Officer Chris Wilburn with IMPD.
When the men pulled into the pawn shop parking lot someone in the SUV pulled out a gun. Shots were fired and the vehicle took off.
Police believe most of the incident was captured on surveillance video. Detectives are looking at the video to put together a description of the SUV.
“From what we’ve been able to understand from detectives they’re pulling surveillance video from businesses and trying to really pinpoint exactly which vehicle was involved and the type of vehicle the make and model,” said Officer Wilburn.
A friend of the victim is offering a $1,000 cash reward for information leading to an arrest. Police ask anyone with info to call Crime Stoppers at 317-262-TIPS.



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

Suspect arrested in connection with road rage homicide case


Crimetracker News

Vigil to be held Friday for road rage shooting victim


News

Police justified in White County shooting


News

Suspect dies after multi-state, multi-county chase and hostage situation


Crimetracker News

Victim takes suspect’s gun in early morning shooting



 


Crimetracker News

Woman shoots, fends off three men in early morning attempted robbery


National & World News

Two men killed after opening fire at Mohammed cartoon event in Texas


Crimetracker News

Suspects break into cars at Fishers YMCA, lead police on chase


News

At least 2 people hurt after fiery crash in Morgan County


Crimetracker News

Two people shot on Indianapolis’ east side; police searching for suspects’ vehicle



 


National & World News

Police: George Zimmerman shot, injured in Florida


News

Dive team searching for stolen truck and driver in retention pond


National & World News

‘The next I know there’s a big bam': Officer scrambles to safety after sinkhole swallows police SUV






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















