Police investigate shooting death of 19-year-old on far eastside | Fox 59 
Police investigate shooting death of 19-year-old on far eastside | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police investigate shooting death of 19-year-old on far eastside

Posted 6:22 PM, June 16, 2015, by Liz Gelardi 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (June 16, 2015) – A 19-year-old was killed inside his home early Tuesday morning. Relatives say someone kicked in the door and shot him.
When officers arrived on scene in the 3100 block of Cluster Pine Drive they found the teen dead inside the home. Police later identified the man as 19-year-old David W. Phelps.
“Just tell us who did it, that’s all we want to know,” said Ayanna Robinson, the victim’s cousin.
Family members say he graduated from Warren Central High School in 2014 and had dreams of becoming a chef one day. He was taking classes at Ivy Tech. During high school Phelps liked to play football and basketball.
They also tell FOX59 the teen’s mother and two other people were inside the home when the shooting happened.
Police say everyone who was inside at the time of the shooting was questioned as officers try to piece together what happened. The teen was the only person shot inside of that home. No one else was injured. There’s no word on a person of interest right now, but police say they do not believe it was a random act.
“This is not an incident in which someone just randomly and indiscriminately picks a location and terrorizes a home or family or citizen or people group. There are relationships here, people know one another here and that’s what we want to convey,” said IMPD Officer Chris Wilburn.
Following is a breakdown of murder victims under the age of 25:
 
Jan 1 – Jun 15, 2015         18 out of 48 (38%)
Jan 1 – Jun 15, 2014         27 out of 70 (39%)
Jan 1 – Dec 31, 2014        58 out of 138 (42%)
 



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

One man dead, one in serious condition after two separate shootings on far east side


News

Teen to be charged as an adult in murder of 19-year-old Warren Central grad


Crimetracker News

		1 hour ago	

Police investigate shooting death of 18-year-old Muncie teen


News

Two minors facing murder charges after violent weekend


News

Teen brothers facing charges for firing shots near Indianapolis crowd on Fourth of July



 


News

Family of alleged teen robber killed in Kokomo police shooting hires lawyer


News

Coroner identifies young man who was shot and killed on northeast side


National & World News

Cleveland officer found not guilty in killing unarmed pair


National & World News

One-year-old shot and killed by toddler inside Cleveland home


News

Suspect arrested after teen dies from being shot multiple times on east side



 


National & World News What's Trending

‘My heart dropped as soon as he pulled his gun’ Teen speaks out after recording viral video of police at Texas pool party


Crimetracker

UPDATE: Man killed, another transported to hospital after shootings on near east side


Crimetracker News

Fishers teen arrested in stabbing of juvenile at neighborhood park






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















