Ferguson: Man admits shooting, denies he aimed for officers, police say | myfox8.com 
Ferguson: Man admits shooting, denies he aimed for officers, police say | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Ferguson: Man admits shooting, denies he aimed for officers, police say

Posted 6:33 am, March 16, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 09:15am, March 16, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
The man arrested for the shooting of two police officers during last week's protests in Ferguson, Missouri, has been identified as Jeffrey Williams, 20, St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Bob McCulloch said Sunday. He is charged with two counts of first-degree assault, among other charges, and is being held on a cash-only $300,000 bond, McCulloch said. 


×
Ferguson: Man admits shooting, denies he aimed for officers, police say


 The man arrested for the shooting of two police officers during last week's protests in Ferguson, Missouri, has been identified as Jeffrey Williams, 20, St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Bob McCulloch said Sunday. He is charged with two counts of first-degree assault, among other charges, and is being held on a cash-only $300,000 bond, McCulloch said.


FERGUSON, Mo. — Jeffrey Williams admitted he fired the shots that struck two officers in Ferguson, police said, but claimed he wasn’t aiming for them.
Nonetheless, the 20-year-old from the St. Louis area has been arrested for the shootings of two police officers during last week’s protests in Ferguson, Mo., a prosecutor said Sunday.
Williams has been charged with two counts of first-degree assault, one count of firing a weapon from a vehicle and three counts of armed criminal activity, St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Bob McCulloch said.
He described Williams as a frequent protester in the city — which some took issue with.
Bishop Derrick Robinson, an area organizer, said he spoke to Williams on Sunday.
“I asked him why would he say that he was a protester because it makes us look bad — because so many things that we’ve done to rebuild our community,” Robinson said. “It sets us like five steps back to say that it was a protester who did it, but he admitted to me that he’d never protested.”
For more than 200 days, protests have taken place in Ferguson since the August shooting death of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown. Ferguson police Officer Darren Wilson was not indicted.
At the time of his arrest, Williams was on probation for receiving stolen property.
The prosecutor thanked the public for the information that led to the arrest. He said police served a search warrant on Williams’ residence where they seized a .40-caliber handgun, “which has been tied to the shell casings that were recovered” at the scene of the shooting.
Williams is being held on a cash-only $300,000 bond, McCulloch said, adding that it’s possible Williams could face more charges and that others could be charged in the case.
Big question: Intent
One element of the case that authorities have yet to sort out is intent, McCulloch said, adding that Williams has acknowledged firing the shots but has said he wasn’t aiming at the police officers.
Investigators are not sure they “buy” Williams’ claim that he opened fire after a dispute with other individuals, McCulloch said, but he didn’t rule it out.
“It’s possible he was firing at someone else,” he said, urging any other witnesses with information to come forward.
‘We could have buried two officers’
The shots rang out from a hill overlooking the city’s police station shortly after midnight Wednesday, at the end of a protest against the Ferguson Police Department, St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said at the time.
Officers saw “muzzle flashes … about 125 yards away,” Belmar said.
“We could have buried two police officers,” Belmar told reporters last week. “I feel very confident that whoever did this … came there for whatever nefarious reason that it was.”
Public donations poured in to be used toward a reward to find the gunman and any accomplices, Belmar said.
Authorities offered a $10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of person or persons responsible for the gunfire upon the two officers, according to the St. Louis Regional CrimeStoppers website.
McCulloch said the tipster whose information led to Williams’ arrest is eligible to receive the reward.
Protesters said they had nothing to do with the shooting, and that the shots came from a grassy hill away from the crowd.
“In no way are they representative of the thousands of people … who have been protesting,” said Antonio French, a St. Louis alderman.
Belmar believes someone targeted the police, who have faced heated criticism for months, he said.
“These police officers were standing there, and they were shot just because they were police officers,” he said.
The department has been criticized since the shooting death of Brown and, more recently, since a scathing U.S. Department of Justice report documented a pattern of racial discrimination in the city. Police Chief Thomas Jackson resigned Wednesday.
“We are actively addressing the issues that have raised concerns of fairness and fair treatment. We support peaceful protesting. However, we will not allow, nor tolerate, the destructive and violent actions of a few to disrupt our unifying efforts,” the mayor of Ferguson and the City Council said in a statement Sunday.
Officers are recovering
While many protesters have decried the Ferguson Police Department, neither of the officers shot last week were from the city.
One is from Webster Groves, a St. Louis suburb 13 miles south of Ferguson. The officer — a 32-year-old with seven years’ experience — was shot at the high point of his cheek, just under his right eye, Belmar said.
The other was hit in the shoulder and the bullet came out the middle of his back, Belmar said. He is a 41-year-old officer with the St. Louis County Police Department, who has been in law enforcement for 14 years.
Both men have been treated and released.

38.744217
-90.305391




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: Ferguson, police shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video


News

Police in Burlington taking questions, suggestions to help post-Ferguson


News

Officer who stood on hood of car and shot, killed unarmed occupants found not guilty


News

4 charged in fatal shooting of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, policemen



 


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Texas biker sues Waco, officers after deadly shootout


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody


News

Teen speaks out after recording viral pool party video



 


News

Two shootings into residences reported in Greensboro; children inside during one


News

Obama will restrict military equipment from local police


News

Arizona officer who drove into suspect justified, chief says






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















