Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera | fox13now.com 
Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera

Posted 10:13 am, April 10, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and Kelly Keiter, Updated at 07:09pm, April 10, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





MAGNA, Utah – Police said a suspect accused of stealing a dump truck towing a trailer and multiple other cars is in custody after leading officers on a 90-minute chase through Utah and Salt Lake counties Friday, and police have released dash camera footage showing the chase and apprehension.
Officials said the crime spree started just before 8:30 a.m. in Pleasant Grove and involved several different vehicles before the suspect, 30-year-old Stephen White, was stopped in a dump truck in Magna. See the video below for footage of the chase. At about 1:40 into the video an officer is seen deploying spike strips, and at about 2:10 an officer is seen firing a non-lethal projectile to break a window in the stopped truck. Around 3:30 into the footage, police can bee seen firing “pepper balls” into the vehicle, and at about 3:50 the man exits the vehicle and numerous armed officers can be seen pursuing the man out of frame.



Pleasant Grove Police said White first stole a Bronco from an impound lot near 500 E. and 400 S.
Police said White drove to a home in the area, got into a fight with someone and left the house in a van.
White then drove a few miles and allegedly stole a second van which he crashed at the Courtyard Plaza strip mall.
Stolen van crashed at Courtyard Plaza in American Fork.
According to police, White then stole a car from Deseret Industries in American Fork and then eventually stole a gold truck and then a white truck.
“He had stolen two cars in Pleasant Grove, two in American Fork, one in Lehi and then ultimately stole this dump truck that’s behind us in Bluffdale,” Unified Police Lt. Justin Hoyle said. “One of those auto thefts that took place was actually a carjacking where an innocent civilian was hurt as a result of him stealing that car from him.”
Lt. Hoyle said White threatened that victim with a box cutter and gave him minor injuries.
The multi-county crime spree finally came to and end in Magna when police stopped a dump truck towing a trailer near 9200 W. and 2700 S. after a short chase.
But White wasn’t going to jail without a fight.
Officers said they used spike strips to take out the truck’s tires but White didn’t stop and rammed a police car numerous times to try to get away.
Police had to use pepper spray among other tactics to get him into custody.
No officers were injured.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (9 images)





Inline



Inline



 



40.710923
-112.110502





		Dump truck leads police on chase through Magna	



Filed in: News Topics: american fork, Bluffdale, crime, Lehi, magna, pleasant grove 








			2 comments		




 

truth

Good job by the police for being patient with the chase, by not shooting the suspect.




							April 10, 2015 at 12:02 pm						








 

Bob

Good job with the fast video replay from the police!, keep up with good work guys




							April 10, 2015 at 5:53 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Heavily intoxicated man leads police on high-speed chase, rams several cars in the process


News

Pleasant Grove police arrest second suspect in alleged bank robbery


News

Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody


News

Dallas police HQ shooting: Suspect killed during standoff


News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests



 


News

Suspect dead after man with concealed carry permit intervenes in alleged carjacking in Orem


News

Video catches brazen burglars in recent Sandy burglary spike


News

Police: Cedar City man leads authorities on pursuit through Zion National Park in stolen deputy’s vehicle


News

		26 mins ago	

Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process


News

DA rules officer was justified in fatal shooting in Draper, cites body cam footage



 


News

West Valley City assault, robbery suspect escapes police chase


News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video


News

4 arrested after police chase through Salt Lake City






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















