Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store | fox13now.com 
Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store

Posted 11:52 am, April 13, 2015, by David Wells, Updated at 03:34pm, April 13, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (12 images)





Inline



Inline



Inline



 


TAYLORSVILLE, Utah — Officers from the Unified Police Department are looking for two suspects accused of robbing a Family Dollar store in Taylorsville.
According to Lt. Justin Hoyal, Unified PD, two males walked into the store and acted like they were going to buy something, then pulled out a gun and forced a clerk into the back of the store.
Police said the clerk complied with the suspects’ demands for cash and opened some safes near the front of the store.
“While this robbery was going on, one of the other suspects – the other suspect that was with them, went to the front door as customers were walking in and telling them the store was closed,” Hoyal said.
The suspects then fled out the back of the store.
“We believe that they got into a car because, as they were leaving, they were dropping gold coins as they were going out the back door and then, ultimately, that trail stopped,” Hoyal said. “So, we believe that they got into a car and fled, but no vehicle was seen.”
Officers set up a perimeter around 1689 W 4200 S in an attempt to catch the suspects.
No one was hurt during the incident.
Police said both suspects are African-American males.
Suspect 1 description:

Approx. 6 feet 1 inch tall
Approx. 300 pounds
Black sweatshirt
Black pants
Gray beanie-type hat
Referred to as “Big Homie”

Suspect 2 description:

Approx. 5 feet 7 inches tall
Approx. 200 pounds
Black shirt
Black pants
brandished a black and silver handgun

Anyone with information that may help police identify and locate the suspects is asked to call Unified Police at (801) 743-7000.



Filed in: News Topics: armed robbery, Family Dollar 













 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Both suspects in armed robbery at Family Dollar now in custody


News

Clerk gives hilarious play-by-play of robbery in video ‘Let me double bag it for you’


News

Police investigate recent rash of Salt Lake Valley store robberies


News

Police seek public’s help in finding gas station robbery suspect


News

Police looking for suspects in Millcreek shooting



 


News

Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose


News

Shoplifting suspect evades officers during chase, rams squad car to escape


News

Two more suspects arrested in shooting of beloved Utah store clerk


News

Sole suspect flees on foot after armed robbery at shoe store


News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody



 


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes


News

Man swaps old shoes for new pair then hits, injures employee while escaping in vehicle


News

Manager pistol-whipped by suspect during robbery; crime caught on camera






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















