Police looking for suspects in Millcreek shooting | fox13now.com 
Police looking for suspects in Millcreek shooting | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police looking for suspects in Millcreek shooting

Posted 6:55 am, June 15, 2015, by David Wells 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Police looking for suspects in Millcreek shooting


 


MILLCREEK, Utah — Officers from the Unified Police Department are looking for four people involved in a shooting at a Millcreek apartment complex early Monday morning.
The shooting was reported at about 1:00 at 3923 S 700 W. Witnesses told police three men who were riding in a red Dodge Neon got out of the car approached one of the apartments. Police said two teenage boys, ages 15 and 17, answered the door and got into an argument with the men.
Witnesses said they heard shots fired and the teens went down. Police said the three men then ran back to the car, where a fourth person was waiting for them, and the car fled west on 3900 S.
“One of the things we are looking into in this case is a motive for this crime. We do believe there are some gang connections to this, and we’re looking to see if that is the main reason for this crime,” said Lt. Justin Hoyal, Unified Police Department, in an interview Monday morning. “We have detectives interviewing those victims right now, and we’re trying to identify those suspects and get them caught.”
The two victims were taken by a personal vehicle to Intermountain Medical Center in fair condition.
Witnesses told police the three men who got out of the Neon are all African-American. Anyone with information that may assist police in this case is urged to call Unified Police at (801) 743-7000.

40.686620
-111.911160




Filed in: News Topics: crime, millcreek, shooting 








			1 Comment		




 

capsaicinone

Why reports the race of the perps but not the teen victims?




							June 15, 2015 at 9:18 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Two people stabbed in Millcreek


News

Police investigating suspicious death in Millcreek after man found shot in apartment


News

Unified Police close 35-year-old cold case homicide


News

Police identify man killed in Millcreek bicycle accident


News

Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home



 


News

Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose


News

Utah Utes football player ‘suspended indefinitely’ after accused of armed robbery


News

SLC police: officer shoots knife-wielding man after responding to woman’s screams


News

Police search for suspects accused of slashing man with knife, stealing wallet


News

Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store



 


News

LAPD chief concerned if officer’s fatal shooting of unarmed man was ‘justified’


News

WVC cop involved in Danielle Willard shooting will get his job back


News

Suspect dead after man with concealed carry permit intervenes in alleged carjacking in Orem






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















