Both suspects in armed robbery at Family Dollar now in custody | fox13now.com 
Both suspects in armed robbery at Family Dollar now in custody | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Both suspects in armed robbery at Family Dollar now in custody

Posted 10:59 pm, April 14, 2015, by Tiffany DeMasters, Updated at 02:59pm, April 16, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (7 images)





Inline



Inline

 


TAYLORSVILLE, Utah — Both suspects in a Family Dollar armed robbery have been taken into custody, and one suspect was arrested Tuesday and the other on Thursday after police released photos of the second suspect and the vehicle he was seen in.
At about 11 a.m. on Monday, Unified Police was called to the incident at the Taylorsville business, 1649 W. 4200 South.
According to Lt. Justin Hoyal, spokesman for Unified Police, two males walked into the store and acted like they were going to buy something, then pulled out a gun and forced a clerk into the back of the store.
Police said the clerk complied with the suspects’ demands for cash and opened some safes near the front of the store.
After receiving several tips, police arrested Gary Grant as one of the suspects Tuesday afternoon. He has been booked into the Salt Lake County Jail on charges of aggravated robbery. Police released photos and a description of the second suspect Wednesday evening, and Thursday morning they arrested 45-year-old Jeffrey Jones at an apartment in West Valley City. Jones also faces aggravated robbery charges.
Unified police said they are grateful to the public for the many tips they received, which helped police capture both suspects.
Police said that just prior to the robbery on Monday, the pair were spotted at a Wal-Mart buying an Airsoft gun, which is a type of toy that fires plastic BBs and is modeled to look like a real firearm, though they are required to have a bright orange tip designating them as toys. It was not clear if that Airsoft gun was the weapon spotted during the crime.
 



Filed in: News Topics: Family Dollar, robbery at family dollar, unified police 













 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store


News

Pleasant Grove police arrest second suspect in alleged bank robbery


News

Police seek public’s help in finding gas station robbery suspect


News

Murray police make arrest in fatal convenience store shooting


News

Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery



 


News

Clerk gives hilarious play-by-play of robbery in video ‘Let me double bag it for you’


News

Police investigate recent rash of Salt Lake Valley store robberies


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes


News

3 arrested after armed robbery suspects fleeing from police crash SUV in Ogden


News

Sole suspect flees on foot after armed robbery at shoe store



 


News

Two more suspects arrested in shooting of beloved Utah store clerk


News

Man sentenced for murdering retired elementary school teacher in Taylorsville


News

Utah Utes football player ‘suspended indefinitely’ after accused of armed robbery






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















