Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery | fox13now.com 
Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery

Posted 8:44 pm, April 29, 2015, by Mark Green 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (3 images)





 


TAYLORSVILLE, Utah – Police have released images of a man suspected in a robbery at a credit union in Taylorsville Wednesday, and they are asking the public for help identifying and locating the man.
According to a press release from the Unified Police Department, the suspect entered the Hercules Credit Union, 3141 West 4700 South, around 4 p.m. and approached the teller.
The suspect gave the teller a note demanding money, and the suspect fled after the teller complied. There were no injuries reported and the suspect did not display or claim to have any weapons during the robbery.
The man fled on foot with an undisclosed amount of money and police searched the area but were unable to locate him.
The suspect, pictured above, is described as a Hispanic man who stands 5-feet 6-inches tall and weighs 200 pounds. He was last seen wearing a black wig and a bandana style hat as well as a long-sleeve, button-up shirt that was black and white.
Anyone with information about the man or the alleged robbery is asked to call the Unified Police Department at 385-468-9813.



Filed in: News Topics: bank robbery, credit union, Unified Police Department 








			1 Comment		




 

freewilltwo

the teller just gave him the money, he has no weapon and she complies…can ya honestly say he stole it?




							April 29, 2015 at 8:57 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Suspect in West Jordan credit union robbery turns himself in, police say


News

Pleasant Grove police arrest second suspect in alleged bank robbery


News

Police searching for bald bank bandit in hairy heist


News

Police hope public can identify bandit in black after bank robbery


News

Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store



 


News

Police seek public’s help in finding gas station robbery suspect


News

Police seek public’s help in locating suspect in RadioShack robbery


News

Sole suspect flees on foot after armed robbery at shoe store


News

Police seek public’s help in finding bank robbery suspect


News

South Salt Lake Police seek public’s help in locating suspected bank robber



 


News

Unified Police: Man, 18, stabbed brother, 36, over money


News

Man swaps old shoes for new pair then hits, injures employee while escaping in vehicle


News

Police seek public’s help in locating suspect in SLC bank robbery






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















