Murray police make arrest in fatal convenience store shooting | fox13now.com 
Murray police make arrest in fatal convenience store shooting | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Murray police make arrest in fatal convenience store shooting

Posted 11:11 am, April 15, 2015, by David Wells and Kiersten Nuñez, Updated at 10:08pm, April 15, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





MURRAY, Utah — Murray police have arrested one of the suspects who they said was involved in the death of David Marsh, a convenience store clerk who was shot to death last month.
Mug shot: Alexis Alan Garcia
Police said they arrested 20-year-old Alexis Alan Garcia and booked him into jail Tuesday night.
Marsh, 62, had worked at the store, now called Lee Mart, for 25 years.
Shortly after the store opened on  March 18, two masked suspects ran in and forced Marsh to hand over all the cash in the register. As they fled, one of them fired a single gunshot, which hit Marsh in the torso.
Marsh died from his injuries four days later.
Police said they received tips from the public that Garcia may have been involved in the robbery and they matched Garcia’s fingerprints with some prints found at the crime scene.
Police also received tips that tattoos on Garcia’s hands matched tattoos that were seen on surveillance video of the incident.
“We had a lot of information from the public, a lot of tips,” said Officer Kenny Bass of the Murray Police Department. “Through those tips, as well as finger print evidence that was found at the scene, and he has a couple of tattoos that were also evident on the surveillance video.”
Officers obtained a search warrant for Garcia and his residence. According to a probable cause statement, police found .22-caliber rounds and and clothing items believed to be used in the robbery in Garcia’s room.
Jimmy Lee, the son of the owner of the store, said they were glad a suspect is in custody.
“To be honest I was getting a little nervous,” he said. “I didn’t think they had any solid leads. We were just hearing rumors here and there.”
Brent Trane, a friend of the victim, also spoke after the arrest.
“We’ve been very scared and kinda afraid to be in this community with the crime, but now it’s a great day of relief that this has taken place and a breath of fresh air,” he said.
Bass said they are still seeking a second suspect.
“It’s a good step in the right direction, but there’s still a long way to go,” he said. “We still have another suspect to identify and apprehend as well.”


Related stories

Murray residents speak about crime concerns at city council meeting
Murray store clerk’s death devastates community; $2,000 reward offered in case
Murray store clerk dies after shot during robbery, suspects still on run




Filed in: News Topics: Alexis Alan Garcia, david marsh, Lee Mart 








			13 comments		




 

ANOTHERBOB

The tattoos on the suspected killer’s neck are either a sign of immaturity or a sign that Garcia has too much time on his hands.  The tattoos on his hands will put Garcia into prison.




							April 15, 2015 at 11:57 am						








 

Forest from the trees

Scumbag




							April 15, 2015 at 12:28 pm						








 

Joshua Wood

Anyone know what the tattoos were of?? Is this guy a gang member?? We have had quite the issue with gangs around Murray the last few months breaking into peoples homes??




							April 15, 2015 at 12:47 pm						








 

Mick14513

time to try out the firing squad…see if it works.




							April 15, 2015 at 1:31 pm						








 

Joshua Wood

This guy is a Norteno Gang Member! This is the same gang that hit my house right next to the gas station in January. The same guys I have been begging Murray PD to do something about since the beginning of January 2015.




							April 15, 2015 at 1:48 pm						








 

bob

Publicly execute him with slow torture, on live TV.  THAT is a deterrent.




							April 15, 2015 at 2:19 pm						








 

Ramrod58

I’ll get the rope.




							April 15, 2015 at 4:06 pm						








 

Kdc

Do you believe in the Bill of Rights or just the ones that benefit you?




							April 16, 2015 at 6:53 am						








 

Ramrod58

I’ll round up the lynch mob




							April 16, 2015 at 7:46 am						












 

kristina

Least we forget the wonderful man who lost his life protecting someone else’s money. The public demands his life




							April 15, 2015 at 5:52 pm						








 

Ramrod58

Looks like it evil monkey




							April 16, 2015 at 4:39 pm						








 

William Garvey

Hast la vista Garcia. Enjoy your prison time with Bubba!




							April 17, 2015 at 12:40 pm						








 

dmailand

He looks like the a hole he is, this is why when I see people that look like him, I do prejudge and attempt to avoid as much as possible, problem is, there are too many like this loser, it is precisely because of this loser that i fully support the death penalty, so sick of seeing good people getting victimized by barely legal or illegal citizens like this. The war on citizens of this country is real but not reported as such, at least 4000 people a year are killed by illegals, who knows how many are killed or hurt by those barely legal or fraudulently legal. Grow up fellow democrats and recognize this issue for what it is, this guy might have been a Dreamer . . .




							April 23, 2015 at 12:43 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Two more suspects arrested in shooting of beloved Utah store clerk


News

Murray residents meet to discuss community safety hours after shooting victim laid to rest


News

Murray residents speak about crime concerns at city council meeting


News

Both suspects in armed robbery at Family Dollar now in custody


News

Arizona police release video of fatal Wal-Mart parking lot brawl involving 8 cops, family of 8



 


News

Meagan Grunwald faces aggressive cross-examination in murder trial


News

Suspect in New Orleans cop killing had access to guns in patrol car, police say


News

		27 mins ago	

Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process


News

NYPD officer Brian Moore, who was shot in head, dies


News

Wounded deputy testifies about shooting in Grunwald trial



 


News

Police identify man found dead at Grantsville Reservoir; person of interest in custody


News

Affidavit releases new details into apparent murder-suicide in Murray


News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


















































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















