3 arrested after armed robbery suspects fleeing from police crash SUV in Ogden | fox13now.com 
3 arrested after armed robbery suspects fleeing from police crash SUV in Ogden | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







3 arrested after armed robbery suspects fleeing from police crash SUV in Ogden

Posted 3:20 pm, April 10, 2015, by Mark Green 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
3 arrested after armed robbery suspects fleeing from police crash SUV in Ogden


 


OGDEN, Utah – Three people were taken into custody by Ogden police late Thursday night after officers responded to a report of an aggravated robbery and the suspects fled the scene in a vehicle, which they later crashed.
According to a press release from the Ogden Police Department, officers responded to a couple who reported they were robbed at knife point around 11:41 p.m. in the area of 3rd and Washington Boulevard. The victims, a 34-year-old male and 21-year-old female, were not injured and the suspects had fled the scene in a 2000 Ford Explorer, green in color.
Officers responding to the area were able to locate the suspect vehicle and attempted to stop it, but the suspects did not stop and instead fled from police. After a short pursuit, the driver of the Explorer lost control and the vehicle crashed in the 2000 block of Washington Boulevard.
The SUV came to a rest on its side, and, according to the press release, “Due to the aggravating circumstances in the reported crime, officers used a non-lethal extended range kinetic energy impact beanbag round to break the rear window to the vehicle, allowing a safe exit for the suspects. Officers then safely removed three suspects.”
The suspects were detained. Two were identified as 30-year-old Javier Garcia and 20-year-old Daniel Herrera, and both were charged with aggravated robbery and possession of a dangerous weapon by a restricted person. The third suspect, 23-year-old Angelica Fresques, was charged with aggravated robbery and felony evading in a vehicle.
All three suspects were booked into the Weber County Jail.



Filed in: News Topics: aggravated robbery, armed robbery, car crash, ogden police department, police chase 








			3 comments		




 

truth

Why are they smiling for, they should get maxed out on sentences just for doing that.




							April 10, 2015 at 9:36 pm						








 

rockwelljrhank

Please, never secure the border with Mexico. Leaving it open will provide a continuous supply of entertainment for us Legal Residents.




							April 23, 2015 at 9:06 am						








 

rockwelljrhank

Please, never secure the border with Mexico. Leaving it open will provide a continuous supply of entertainment for us Legal Citizens.




							April 23, 2015 at 9:07 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Police: Three ‘Ogden Trece’ gang members arrested


News

Motorcyclist dragged about 200 feet identified; Ogden police still seek driver of van


News

Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery


News

Pleasant Grove police arrest second suspect in alleged bank robbery


News

Sole suspect flees on foot after armed robbery at shoe store



 


News

Heavily intoxicated man leads police on high-speed chase, rams several cars in the process


News

Washington, D.C., shootings: Wild chase from Census Bureau to H Street


News

Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes


News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City



 


News

Man wanted for kidnapping, robbery spotted in Glendale; police seek public’s help


News

Man arrested for alleged DUI after SUV strikes 2 parked cars in Salt Lake City


News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















