Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose | fox13now.com 
Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose

Posted 7:40 am, May 12, 2015, by Ashton Edwards, Updated at 07:55am, May 12, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





HOLLADAY, Utah – Unified Police are looking for four suspects in a home invasion robbery overnight.
Police said four Polynesian men dressed in all black kicked the door in at a basement apartment in Holladay.
According to the two victims who were home at the time, the men said they were police officers and began searching the home and taking electronics.
One of the victims was able to run down the street and call 911.
The suspects chased him a few blocks and then ran before police arrived.
Police set up roadblocks and began searching for the men but didn’t find them.
“It’s very disturbing that someone would go out there and announce themselves as police and commit a crime like this,” Unified Police Lt. Justin Hoyal said. “We’re doing everything we can to locate these suspects and get them caught and off the street but we are asking for the public’s help. If anybody knows who they are or has any information about this crime, we ask that they contact us.”
Officers said the men were armed and are considered dangerous.
If you have any information, you can contact unified police at (801) 743-7000.

40.679972
-111.839514









Filed in: News Topics: crime, holladay 








			4 comments		




 

bob

Shoot anybody who forces their way into your home without showing a warrant.




							May 12, 2015 at 7:46 am						








 

Kdc

Oh Bob, I bet you were wishing it was your house they entered. Your thirst for blood is so evident with every post you make




							May 12, 2015 at 10:37 am						










 

Andy

I think the “victim” in this one needs a little scrutiny by the police…or better yet, a neighborly persuasion to operate his business in that dope infested hipster-mecca, Sugarhouse. :)




							May 12, 2015 at 11:18 am						








 

Steve

Here is a new lock invention that may have stopped this home invasion
http://www.patentauction.com/patent.php?nb=10654




							May 12, 2015 at 4:55 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Suspects arrested, Holladay homeowner fires shot at accused burglars


News

Police looking for suspects in Millcreek shooting


News

Police seek vehicle, 2 suspects after car stolen at gunpoint in Holladay


News

Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home


News

Two arrested in connection with at least 20 burglaries in Centerville



 


News

Bullet grazes man’s back after early morning shooting in Sandy


News

Men wanted for kidnapping, forgery, exploitation; claimed to be elderly victim’s ‘personal assistants’


News

Salt Lake police looking for suspect in attempted child abduction


News

Police search for suspects accused of spraying Salt Lake home with bullets


News

Utah massage parlors raided in human trafficking, prostitution crackdown



 


News

Police searching for bald bank bandit in hairy heist


News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City


News

Mom who reported child abduction now accused of false police report, suspect released






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















