Citizen takes action, leads South Jordan police to suspect who has at least 127 alleged victims | fox13now.com 
Citizen takes action, leads South Jordan police to suspect who has at least 127 alleged victims | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Citizen takes action, leads South Jordan police to suspect who has at least 127 alleged victims

Posted 3:25 pm, April 18, 2015, by Mark Green, Updated at 04:21pm, April 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (3 images)





 


SALT LAKE CITY – A tip from a citizen helped police arrest a woman accused of stealing mail belonging to 127 different people, and the woman was also allegedly in possession of drug paraphernalia as well as credit cards not in her name that may have been stolen.
According to information from the South Jordan Police Department, police received a tip around 11:15 p.m. Thursday about a possible mail theft in progress, as a vehicle was observed driving on the wrong side of the street and stopping at mailboxes so a person inside could remove mail.
The witness called police and followed the suspect from a safe distance. Police responded and encountered a female walking away from the silver van associated with the alleged thefts, and the woman dropped a methamphetamine pipe while talking to police. She also admitted to the mail theft in the area, according to the press release from South Jordan PD.
Police arrested 44-year-old Jennifer E. Cutsforth of Draper and booked her into the Salt Lake County Adult Detention Center on charges related to mail theft and possession of drug paraphernalia.
Police searched the vehicle and found hundreds of pieces of mail belonging to 127 separate, known victims from Eagle Mountain to Salt Lake City.
According to the press release, Cutsforth also possessed “numerous credit cards that do not bear her name. South Jordan Investigators are in the process of contacting each of those victims to determine if the property was stolen.”
Master Officer Samuel Winkler praised the actions of the witness who reported the alleged theft.
“The witnesses in this case did exactly what they were supposed to do: they observed something out of the ordinary and quickly notified law enforcement,” Winkler stated. “They also maintained visual observation of the suspect from a safe distance to assist law enforcement in taking this suspect into custody. This cooperation between citizens and police is what made it possible to arrest this suspect who potentially could have committed an identity theft crime against these 127 victims.”



Filed in: News Topics: drug paraphernalia, identity theft, mail theft, south jordan police department 








			4 comments		




 

JEWLZZZ

Jennifer Cutsforth is only 44?  She looks a lot older.  Maybe its the meth.




							April 19, 2015 at 3:07 pm						








 

truth

So why is she not being federally indicted




							April 19, 2015 at 4:30 pm						








 

Kelly Springfield

What a skagg!




							April 20, 2015 at 11:24 am						








 

https://www.linkedin.com/pub/dr-robi-ludwig/26/334/132

You have remarkeԀ very interesting points! ps decent
site.




							April 20, 2015 at 9:24 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Police ask help finding suspect accused of stealing money at South Jordan Walmart


News

Meth, heroin, weapon, $5,000 seized in Price drug bust, suspects arrested


News

Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding


News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody


News

Missing driver from South Jordan rollover found hiding in trunk of realtor’s vehicle, police say



 


News

Shoplifting suspect evades officers during chase, rams squad car to escape


News

Mom with 4 unbuckled kids in car arrested for DUI after passing out, hitting trees during paper route


News

Mom who reported child abduction now accused of false police report, suspect released


News

Police seek vehicle, 2 suspects after car stolen at gunpoint in Holladay


News

Suspect caught on camera stealing $2,000 of packages from Utah home in broad daylight



 


News

Man swaps old shoes for new pair then hits, injures employee while escaping in vehicle


News

Man in custody after taking ex-girlfriend, her current boyfriend on wild ride in disputed vehicle


News

Police seek burglary suspect who has outstanding warrants for assault, theft






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















