Police ask help finding suspect accused of stealing money at South Jordan Walmart | fox13now.com 
Police ask help finding suspect accused of stealing money at South Jordan Walmart | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police ask help finding suspect accused of stealing money at South Jordan Walmart

Posted 11:12 am, July 9, 2015, by Ashton Edwards, Updated at 11:14am, July 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 


South Jordan PD looking for woman accused of theft.
SOUTH JORDAN, Utah – Officers are asking the public for help identifying a woman they say was involved in a theft at Walmart back in April.
Authorities said a victim accidentally left an envelope with cash at the register after paying at the Walmart at 11328 S. Jordan Gateway.
The suspect was caught on surveillance video taking the envelope and leaving the store.
South Jordan Police said the suspect is a Caucasian woman with dark, medium-length hair.
They said the woman appears to be in her 30s, about 5’6″ and 180 pounds.
She was wearing a white patterned shirt, blue jeans and was pushing a boy in a cart.
Officers said they would like to speak to anyone with information at (801) 840-4000 referencing case 15F004641.
Callers can remain anonymous.

40.546194
-111.901355




Filed in: News Topics: crime, south jordan 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



 



			3 comments		




 

trevor

That’s definitely a Great Value camera… You would think Wal-Mart could afford a better one.




							July 9, 2015 at 12:11 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Tina

That’s not theft that’s finders keepers ppl. If I find money and I don’t turn it in…like most ppl wouldn’t …. that makes me a jerk not a thief. That’s a shotty thing to do by not being honest and turning it in. Shes a dishonest person not a thief. She didn’t steal a purse or something from the store and personally in my opinion I feel this is abuse of surveillance video. Yes even if it was mine I’d think that because I feel we need to use that for real thieves and kidnappers etc.




							July 9, 2015 at 1:16 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Jamie

If this happened in April why are we just hearing about it now?




							July 9, 2015 at 3:11 pm						

Reply
Report comment











 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody


News

Citizen takes action, leads South Jordan police to suspect who has at least 127 alleged victims


News

Suspect caught on camera stealing $2,000 of packages from Utah home in broad daylight


News

Police searching for car theft suspect who caused 5-car crash in West Jordan


News

Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding



 


News

Police: Suspects break smoke shop employee’s face with rock, rob store


News

2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan


News

Missing driver from South Jordan rollover found hiding in trunk of realtor’s vehicle, police say


News

Mom who reported child abduction now accused of false police report, suspect released



 


News

‘Polygamous ninja’ Raven Blackwing sentenced to prison after break-in, sword fight


News

Autopsy completed on woman found in Jordan River, cause of death undetermined


News

Police search for suspects accused of slashing man with knife, stealing wallet






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















