2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say | fox13now.com 
2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say

Posted 8:36 am, April 12, 2015, by Tiffany DeMasters, Updated at 04:23pm, April 12, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say


 


SOUTH JORDAN, Utah — Two males were arrested Saturday after breaking into a popular clothing store and stealing hundreds of dollars in clothing and long boards, according to police Sunday morning.
At approximately 2:38 a.m. Saturday, South Jordan police officers were in the area of a Zumiez, located in the District, 11465 S. District Main Drive, when they heard unusual banging noises from the business area.
When officers went to check it out they noticed the front window of Zumiez had been broken out and two suspects were running from the store, according to a press release from South Jordan police.
The officers pursued and were able to apprehend to males, Michael Burgess, 21, of West Jordan, and Joshua Rash, 18, of Herriman.
Burgess and Rash were found with long boards and clothing in the amount of $500, the release states. Damage to the business is estimated to be more than $400.
Burgess and Rash were booked into the Salt Lake County Adult Detention Center on burglary charges and fleeing police.
“This case is an example of outstanding police work. These officers heard an unusual sound and investigated the origin of the sound, which lead to the discovery of a burglary in-progress and quick apprehension of these two suspects,” said Master Officer Samuel Winkler, spokesman for South Jordan police.



Filed in: News Topics: burglary, south jordan police 








			3 comments		




 

truth

I’m pretty sure that these two fine gentlemen are the ones that were breaking in the state liquor stores as well. Case closed.




							April 12, 2015 at 8:07 pm						








 

Matt

As a U.S. Marine it would be my pleasure to invite these two dirt bags to join the USMC and let’s see how long they have smirks on their faces. Too bad we still don’t have the “Old Corps” functioning. These two would be – well – getting stronger by way of bucket lifting. (I give them 10-minutes and they would be in tears.)




							April 12, 2015 at 9:58 pm						








 

boom

i know the burgess kid, hes an idiot




							April 13, 2015 at 4:18 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding


News

Man taken to hospital in critical condition after accidental shooting following firearms training


News

Mom with 4 unbuckled kids in car arrested for DUI after passing out, hitting trees during paper route


News

Police: Suspects break smoke shop employee’s face with rock, rob store


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan



 


News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody


News

Citizen takes action, leads South Jordan police to suspect who has at least 127 alleged victims


News

Missing driver from South Jordan rollover found hiding in trunk of realtor’s vehicle, police say


News

Juveniles busted for underage drinking at West Jordan house party, police say


News

Man arrested for alleged DUI after SUV strikes 2 parked cars in Salt Lake City



 


News

Police ID suspect fatally shot in alleged Orem carjacking; shooter not identified


News

68-year-old man pulled under water by 7-foot shark; attack is 7th off N.C. coast since June


News

South Salt Lake police seek help locating 2 teens who escaped juvenile detention center






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts




































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















