Detectives catch serial robber red-handed | Fox 59 
Detectives catch serial robber red-handed | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Detectives catch serial robber red-handed

Posted 12:27 PM, April 15, 2015, by Jill Glavan and Matt Adams - Web Producer, Updated at 10:36pm, April 15, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS (April 15, 2015) – An undercover investigation led to the arrest of a man suspected in a series of robberies in Indianapolis and the surrounding area.
On Monday, investigators with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department and FBI Violent Crimes Task Force were trailing the man when they saw him approach two employees at Advanced Auto Parts in the 2900 block of Kentucky Avenue. The man and two employees went back into the business, where investigators saw the suspect hold out his arm as if holding a gun. He then stepped behind the counter where employees would stand and left the business.
Investigators approached the suspect—identified as Jeffery Wilson Jr., 32—and took him into custody. They recovered a handgun and some cash. During questioning at IMPD headquarters, Wilson admitted to the robbery and was preliminarily charged with robbery and two counts of criminal confinement.
“It’s a good thing that he’s off the streets, yes, absolutely,” Advance Auto Parts Manager Geoff Garland said.
Garland never expected to get a call that the store had been robbed at gunpoint, much less by a man police had been watching. He got the full story from a fellow manager who was one of those robbed.
“The guy came in with a gun, pointed it at them, made them open the safe and then forced them in the bathroom,” Garland.
Police said Wilson is suspected of carrying out 24 robberies in 10 central Indiana communities dating back to 2013, hitting targets like GameStop, Cash America, EZ Pawn and Check Into Cash.
“A lot of the robberies he committed, he was masked. That made it difficult,” IMPD Ofc. Rafael Diaz said.
Masked and on camera, though. In addition to 11 hits in Indianapolis, he was caught on surveillance video robbing a Check and Go in Kokomo, then one in Anderson two weeks later. The next week, he’s seen in Columbus, where he’d been once before, and Lafayette caught him on tape, too.
Police believed Wilson is the man behind all of those surveillance photos. FOX59 learned that it was a tip to Central Indiana CrimeStoppers that led detectives to follow him and wait.
“It truly is like a puzzle, having to comb through all these different investigations,” Diaz said.
A puzzle Garland wished didn’t end in the robbery of his employees, but he was glad to see detectives get their man.
“It’s just good that they got this guy. … He didn’t shoot at anybody but who’s to say that the next person he wouldn’t have shot at?” Garland said.
Investigators are working with other agencies to piece together the many robberies and Wilson is likely to eventually face federal charges.



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

CVS employees stop robbery suspect, pin him down until police arrive


Crimetracker News

Police investigate armed robbery at Bloomington McDonald’s


News

Suspect accused in fatal shooting turns self in


News

Police: Robbery motive in northeast side shooting


Crimetracker News

‘Career bank robber’ sentenced to 27 years after being captured during Fishers robbery



 


Crimetracker News

Police make arrest after man stabbed 13 times during robbery


Crimetracker News

Woman shoots, fends off three men in early morning attempted robbery


News

Thieves steal phones from AT&T stores, then apologize


Crimetracker News

Police arrest 3 people after robbery at Noblesville CVS store


Crimetracker National & World News

Man winds up in jail after pepper spraying himself during botched robbery



 


News

Police searching for suspect who robbed man in wheelchair on northwest side of Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Victim takes suspect’s gun in early morning shooting


Crimetracker National & World News

Bank robber is arrested after stopping to buy biscuits






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















