Bloomington police searching for suspect after sexual assault of 73-year-old woman | Fox 59 
Bloomington police searching for suspect after sexual assault of 73-year-old woman | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Bloomington police searching for suspect after sexual assault of 73-year-old woman

Posted 5:30 PM, June 15, 2015, by Greg Margason - Web Producer and James Gherardi, Updated at 10:20pm, June 15, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (June 15, 2015)– Bloomington police are searching for a suspect accused of sexually assaulting a  woman twice on Sunday.
Just before 6 a.m. Sunday, the Bloomington Police Department received a call saying that a woman, 73, woke up on her couch to find a man holding his hand over her mouth and pressing his forearm into her neck.
Police say the man sexually assaulted the victim in the living room before assaulting her again in the bedroom area, at an apartment complex on the southeast side of Bloomington. The suspect may have entered the apartment at around 4:30 a.m.
The victim was able to press a medical alert button in the bedroom that emitted a series of tones that startled the suspect, who fled out a sliding door. There was no sign of forced entry. Police say the suspect might have entered through the same sliding door he used to flee. The victim said it might not have been locked completely.
Medical alert personnel notified Bloomington Police and within minutes, she was taken to the hospital.
You’ve likely heard of the devices before, the tiny buttons with huge, lifesaving potential. If pressed, they notify medical personnel immediately of an emergency.  A reality check for folks with elderly relatives living alone.
“It’s a good thing that she had that, that’s wonderful for people to be able to use that if they don’t have any other means of calling for help,” said one woman.
“If that person is ill and trying to live by themselves, which I respect that, I think it’s a good idea,” said one man.
Police say the suspect is described as a light-skinned black male, early to mid-20’s with short “buzzed” hair and a medium build. He was wearing a bright red shirt with thin blue horizontal lines, possibly gray pants or shorts and white shoes that may have been canvas versus traditional leather tennis shoes.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












Crimetracker News

Bloomington police arrest suspect in connection with alleged sexual assault of 73-year-old woman


Crimetracker

Bloomington rape suspect’s DNA linked to 1999 cold case sexual assault of 62-year-old woman


Crimetracker News

IU student police cadet resigns following alleged rape at residence hall


Crimetracker News

Homeowner, suspect shot in two incidents on northwest side


News

Woman reports she was attacked while taking out the trash



 


News

Greenwood police arrest man accused of beating and raping an elderly woman


Crimetracker News

Police shoot suspect on city’s near east side


Crimetracker News

Indiana University student arrested on attempted murder charges in shooting of 23-year-old man


Crimetracker News

Murder suspect could face additional charges after two children were abducted


Crimetracker News

Official charges filed in IU student Hannah Wilson’s murder; police search for link in Lauren Spierer case



 


News

Female student reports attack in Indiana University dorm bathroom


News

Police step up patrols after attack on popular Bloomington trail


Crimetracker News

Pregnant woman tased, kicked in stomach during attempted robbery






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















