Double murder, kidnapping suspect James Horn Jr. shot and killed | myfox8.com 
Double murder, kidnapping suspect James Horn Jr. shot and killed | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Double murder, kidnapping suspect James Horn Jr. shot and killed

Posted 7:41 pm, May 23, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
James Barton Horn Jr. 


×
Double murder, kidnapping suspect James Horn Jr. shot and killed


 James Barton Horn Jr.


SEDALIA, Mo. — A Missouri woman kept captive in a wooden box for four months escaped in April, only to be shot to death this week along with her son — and the suspect in their deaths was killed Saturday, authorities said.
James Barton Horn Jr. — who had been charged with two homicides, kidnapping, armed criminal action and unlawful use of a weapon — was fatally shot by police in a home in Johnson County, said Lt. Sonny Lynch of Rural Missouri Major Case Squad.
“He was in a closet. He was armed. He refused to surrender, he threatened officers, and he was shot and killed,” Lynch told reporters.
Police had said Horn, 47, kept Sandra Sutton, his ex-girlfriend, in a box at a home in Sedalia, in the west-central part of the state, from January to April 30.
Free, but in hiding
Authorities were called Thursday to a house in Clinton, about 45 miles from Sedalia, where they found Sutton, 46, and her son, Zachary Sutton, 17, shot to death.
They had been staying with Sutton’s relatives after she fled from her alleged captor, police said.
Sutton’s body was in the bedroom and her son’s was on the stairs. Relatives found them about 4:30 a.m.
“They were discovered by family members who were working on the overnight shift,” Lynch, who works for the Clinton Police Department, said Friday. “They had been away working when this happened.”
Why didn’t she have police protection?
The fatal shootings sparked questions on why Sutton didn’t have police protection because the man who allegedly kept her captive was on the run.
The two moved in with Sutton’s brother, and local authorities didn’t know that she lived in Clinton, Lynch told KSHB.
“We did not know she was living in our community,” Lynch said. “We’re still investigating those details. We were not notified that she was in our community.”
Victim advocacy groups urged Sutton to get police protection, but she said she felt safe, Lynch told the affiliate.
The suspect knew her relatives, where they lived and what shifts they worked, according to Lynch.
Police have searched various homes linked to the suspect, including the one in Sedalia where she was allegedly kept in a box.
Horn had been in prison several times, including one stint in the early 1990s for kidnapping and raping an ex-girlfriend in Tennessee, according to The News & Observer of Raleigh, North Carolina. He also went to a federal prison in North Carolina for another kidnapping and rape in Mississippi, the paper reported.
In 2011, prosecutors in the second case argued Horn should not be released as scheduled because he was too dangerous. In a court order obtained by the newspaper, a judge wrote there was no clear proof that Horn had a mental impairment. So after almost 13 years in prison, he was released.
Sutton’s escape
In Sedalia, authorities had been looking for the suspect since Sutton’s box ordeal surfaced.
She escaped at 6 p.m. April 30, and ran to a neighbor’s house, who helped her notify authorities, KSHB reported.
When police arrived, a “hysterical” Sutton told them Horn had kept her in a wooden box on and off for four months inside a house they shared, according to the affiliate.
She was allowed to get out of the box when the suspect was home in the evenings, police said.
Authorities went to the home and found a box that matched the victim’s description, the affiliate reported. More details about her kidnapping case were not immediately available.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Woman who said boyfriend held her in box for 4 months found dead


News

Police: Woman held in box for months found dead, man sought


News

NC man found not guilty in self-defense murder shot dead


News

Officer who stood on hood of car and shot, killed unarmed occupants found not guilty


News

Investigators look into possibility of hate crime in Wayne Community College shooting



 


News

Suspect killed after opening fire on officers outside Dallas police headquarters


News

Arizona officer who drove into suspect justified, chief says


News

1 charged in connection to death of Winston-Salem man found dead in driveway


News

Suspect sought for shooting at occupied vehicle in Burlington


News

At least two people shot outside Muhammad cartoon exhibit in Texas



 


News

Homicide suspect had standoff with Greensboro police


News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

‘Today is not a good day:’ Driver, teen shot to death after vehicle hits and kills 2-year-old






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















