Charleston, S.C., Church Shooting: Live Updates - The New York Times 



Charleston, S.C., Church Shooting: Live Updates - The New York Times




Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content











			                Live Coverage			        
|
        Charleston, S.C., Church Shooting: Live Updates        
    



Advertisement





Search
 
Log In
0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go








 












U.S. Charleston, S.C., Church Shooting: Live Updates



						The New York Times					
June 18, 2015
June 18, 2015 











Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



What We Know 

A gunman  opened fire at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on Wednesday evening, killing nine people, including the pastor.
The police arrested a suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, 21, on Thursday in Shelby, N.C. He was taken to the jail in Charleston County, S.C. Officials said Mr. Roof would make a court appearance on Friday afternoon.
Federal and state officials have opened a hate crime investigation into the attack.





Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



Suspect Is Returned to Charleston 
Dylann Storm Roof waived extradition and was flown to South Carolina aboard a private plane Thursday evening and, amid extraordinary security, walked into the jail in Charleston County at 7:25 p.m. 
As Mr. Roof, who was wearing a striped jail jumpsuit, entered the jail through a secured entrance, a police dog barked, cameras clicked and one woman uttered an epithet.
Nearby, a 15-year-old boy from North Charleston held a handwritten sign: “Your evildoing did not break our community! You made us stronger!”
The boy, Hikaym Rivers, said that he doubted Mr. Roof saw his message — and he questioned whether the suspect would have cared if he noticed the sign — but he said it was important to make a public statement one night after the shooting in Charleston.
“We’re supporting our community, and we’re taking a stand that no one can just take this away from us,” he said. “It’s our peace of mind.”
Jail officials said that Mr. Roof would make a court appearance on Friday afternoon.




Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



U.N. Experts Deplore Killings of African-Americans in Church 
A statement by Mireille Fanon Mendes France, chairwoman of the United Nations’ Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent:
“We utterly condemn the appalling attack on the Emanuel African Methodist Church in Charleston, South Carolina, yesterday and the killing of nine African-Americans. We welcome the prompt action by the authorities to investigate this hate crime. Every effort must be made to ensure the person guilty of this act is prosecuted and punished accordingly. Urgent measures must be taken to prevent gun violence and racist crimes motivated by prejudice that affect the security of Afro-Americans, their communities and society as a whole. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the people of the U.S.A., especially the families and friends of those who were murdered while in worship at church.” 




Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



A Prayer Vigil in Charleston 
The City of Charleston will hold a prayer vigil to mourn the victims of Wednesday’s massacre. The vigil will be held Friday at 6 p.m. at the College of Charleston TD Arena. 




Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



A Nagging Hunch Led to Arrest 
According to one report, the suspect in the Charleston church massacre was arrested based on a tip from a woman who decided to check out a hunch that made her “a little late” to work.
The Shelby Star reported Thursday that Debbie Dills was driving to work at Frady’s Florist in Kings Mountain, N.C., when she spotted a black Hyundai Elantra that looked familiar.
“I saw the news coverage last night and the picture of the car,” Ms. Dills told the newspaper on Thursday. “I knew it was a black car, and it had a tag on the front. I saw the pictures of him with the bowl cut.”
“I said, ‘I’ve seen that car for some reason,’ ” she said. “I look over, and it’s got a South Carolina tag on it. I thought, ‘Nah, that’s not his car.’ Then, I got closer and saw that haircut.”
Ms. Dills, who is the minister of music at West Cramerton Baptist Church and said she was at church Wednesday night, said she followed the car for several miles, then turned off the highway for work. Then, acting on a hunch, she decided to double back to see if she could provide more details.
“If it that was him and something would happen again, what would I do?” she told The Star. “It kept eating at me and something told me to keep following him.”
Ms. Dills said she called her boss, Todd Frady, for advice, leading to a call to police at 10:35 a.m. and the arrest of Dylann Storm Roof by the Shelby Police Department.
It was not a high-speed chase, Ms. Dills told The Star.
“He wasn’t doing anything abnormal,” she said. “He wasn’t driving slow, he was just driving. He just kept going.”




Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 

Rick Gladstone and Karen Zraick 



Hate Crime? Or Terrorism? 
The Charleston church massacre of nine African-Americans has been classified as a possible hate crime, but many civil rights advocates — along with a wide range of commentators online — are asking why the attack has not been called terrorism.
A White man enters a historic church of the Black freedom struggle, utters racist remarks, and murders 9 Black people. THIS IS TERRORISM.
— Marc Lamont Hill (@marclamonthill) June 18, 2015

Against the backdrop of rising worries about violent Muslim extremism in the United States, many see hypocrisy in the way that both the attack and the suspected attacker have been described.
While assaults like the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013 and the attempted shooting attack on an anti-Islam art exhibit in Garland, Tex., last month have been described as terrorism carried out by Islamic extremists, critics say that assaults against African-Americans and Muslim Americans are never called terrorism.
They also argue assailants who are white are far less likely to be described by law enforcement authorities as terrorists.
“We have been conditioned to accept that if the violence is committed by a Muslim, then it is terrorism,” said Nihad Awad, executive director of the Council on American Islamic Relations, a civil rights advocacy group based in Washington.
“If the same violence is committed by a white supremacist or apartheid sympathizer and is not a Muslim, we start to look for excuses — he might be insane, maybe he was pushed too hard,” Mr. Awad said. “But the act fits perfectly the definition of terrorism.”
The range of voices making that point, or a version of it, has been growing throughout the day.
The hacker group Anonymous weighed in.
Can we call it terrorism yet? #CharlestonShooting #AMEShooting pic.twitter.com/MxnQzvmJn3
— Anonymous (@YourAnonCentral) June 18, 2015

So did a number of black writers, from Jelani Cobb of The New Yorker, to Khalilah L. Brown-Dean, a political scientist and blogger, who sought to put the Charleston attack into a broader historical context.
Those who characterize #Charlestonshooting as just another example of "gun violence" deny the history of terrorism targeting Black churches
— DR.BROWN-DEAN (@KBDPHD) June 18, 2015

Muslims, in the United States and around the world, also said it should be obvious that the Charleston killer was a terrorist.
“We have a man who intentionally went to a black church, had animus toward black people and assassinated an elected official and eight other people,” said Dean Obeidallah, a Muslim American radio show host and commentator. “It seems he was motivated by a desire to terrorize and kill black people.”
“How was he radicalized? He went from a run of the mill racist to the radicalized racist who wanted to use violence to effectuate his view of how the world should be,” he said. “It seems, in this case, without black people.”
While President Obama, Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch and South Carolina police and government officials described the assault as a hate crime, many social-media reactions were bitter and caustic about the perceived double standard.
“A white supremacist massacres 9 black people in Charleston. It is a hate crime, it is terrorism, it is America 2015,” Remi Kanazi, a Palestinian-American activist and poet, said in a Twitter post.
Samuel Sinyangwe, a civil-rights activist, pointed out that the double standard even extended to clothing, noting that Mr. Roof chose to adorn himself in a photograph on Facebook with a flag long associated with white supremacy.
#CharlestonShooting terrorist wore an Apartheid flag on his jacket.

If a Muslim man wore an ISIS flag, he wouldn't get past mall security.
— Samuel Sinyangwe (@samswey) June 18, 2015





Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



A History of Violence 
Selected other violent attacks against black churches are listed here:




Violent History: Attacks on Black Churches

The killing of nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., is among a long list of attacks targeting predominantly black churches in the United States.





Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



On the Trail of a Suspect 


Chuck Burton/Associated Press

In a 14-hour manhunt after the shootings in Charleston, S.C., investigators combed leads and social media postings, eventually arresting the suspect,  Dylann Storm Roof, more than 200 miles away in Shelby, N.C.




Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 

Amy Chozick 



Hillary Clinton: ‘This time we have to find answers together’ 
A day after Hillary Rodham Clinton held a campaign event in Charleston, S.C., she addressed the killing of nine people at a prayer session at a historic black church there, calling for a national conversation about race and collaboration on gun control.
“As we mourn, and as our hearts break a little more and as we send this message of solidarity that we will not forsake those who have been victimized by gun violence,” Mrs. Clinton said in Las Vegas. “This time we have to find answers together.”
She evoked the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s response to the 1963 bombing at the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Ala. “Today we say to the families of Mother Emanuel and to all the people of Charleston, ‘You do not walk alone,’ ” she said. “Millions of Americans, regardless of race or creed or religion, are walking with you, in grief, in solidarity, in determination.”
Mrs. Clinton, who made the remarks on Thursday at the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, did not elaborate on how she would go further on gun control than the Obama Administration.
But just focusing on gun control in the wake of the Charleston attacks puts her in contrast to one Democratic primary rival. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont voted against several moderate gun control bills. 




Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



Profiles of the Victims 
The county coroner has identified the nine victims of the Charleston church shooting. They ranged in age from 26 to 87, and include a librarian, a legislator and several ministers.
Rev. Clementa Carlos Pinckney, 41, pastor of Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, where the shooting occurred, began preaching at 13 and was elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives at 23, becoming the youngest African-American to be elected to the State Legislature.
Cynthia Hurd, 54, served as the regional manager of the St. Andrews branch of the county library, a job she loved because it brought her closer to people.
DePayne Middleton Doctor, 49, was the mother of four daughters – the youngest is in junior high school and the oldest is in college.
Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45, was a coach for the girls’ track and field team and a speech therapist at Goose Creek High School. She was on the church staff.
Tywanza Sanders, 26, had graduated from Allen University, a historically black college, as a business administration major last year and was looking for employment.
Ethel Lee Lance, 70, was a sexton at the church and had worked there for more than three decades. Her cousin, Susie Jackson, was a longtime church member and died along with her.
Susie Jackson, 87.
Rev. Daniel L. Simmons Sr., 75, a retired pastor from another church in Charleston, attended Emanuel A.M.E. every Sunday for services and Wednesdays for bible study, according to his daughter-in-law, Arcelia Simmons of Newport News, Va.
Myra Thompson, 59, was the wife of the Rev. Anthony Thompson, vicar of Holy Trinity Reformed Episcopal Church in Charleston.




Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 

Daniel Victor 



Former Attorney General Eric Holder: ‘My heart breaks – again.’ 
Eric H. Holder Jr., the former attorney general, appeared to join Twitter on Thursday, and his first tweet was a comment on the shooting.
Hate and gun violence. How often? How long? My heart breaks – again. Condolences to victims, survivors and families at Mother Emanuel
— Eric Holder (@EricHolderJr) June 18, 2015

The account was not verified by Twitter, but Matthew Miller, a former spokesman for Mr. Holder, said the account was authentic.
Mr. Holder’s successor as attorney general, Loretta E. Lynch, joined Twitter on Wednesday, when she was sworn in, but has not yet tweeted about the shooting. She called it “a heartbreaking event,” today.


 










Related Coverage



Church Massacre Suspect Held as Charleston Grieves

						After a 14-hour search, the suspect was caught some 200 miles away from the historic black church where nine people were killed.						
							U.S.							June 23, 2015





The Shootings in a Charleston Church

						Where the attack happened, some statistics behind hate crimes, and maps of Charleston’s shifting population.						
							U.S.							June 23, 2015





With Charleston Shooting, a Time to Stop Teaching Children About the ‘History’ of Racial Violence

						How many of your children have come home from school to tell you that black people “used to” be treated differently?						
							U.S.							June 22, 2015



 
 







Advertisement










                    © 2015

 The New York Times Company




Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












