Suspect Is Returned to Charleston - The New York Times 



Suspect Is Returned to Charleston - The New York Times




Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content











			                Live Coverage			        
|
        Suspect Is Returned to Charleston        
    



Advertisement





Search
 
Log In
0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go








 











U.S. Charleston, S.C., Church Shooting: Live Updates



						The New York Times					
June 18, 2015
June 18, 2015 











Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



What We Know 

A gunman  opened fire at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on Wednesday evening, killing nine people, including the pastor.
The police arrested a suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, 21, on Thursday in Shelby, N.C. He was taken to the jail in Charleston County, S.C. Officials said Mr. Roof would make a court appearance on Friday afternoon.
Federal and state officials have opened a hate crime investigation into the attack.





Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



Suspect Is Returned to Charleston 
Dylann Storm Roof waived extradition and was flown to South Carolina aboard a private plane Thursday evening and, amid extraordinary security, walked into the jail in Charleston County at 7:25 p.m. 
As Mr. Roof, who was wearing a striped jail jumpsuit, entered the jail through a secured entrance, a police dog barked, cameras clicked and one woman uttered an epithet.
Nearby, a 15-year-old boy from North Charleston held a handwritten sign: “Your evildoing did not break our community! You made us stronger!”
The boy, Hikaym Rivers, said that he doubted Mr. Roof saw his message — and he questioned whether the suspect would have cared if he noticed the sign — but he said it was important to make a public statement one night after the shooting in Charleston.
“We’re supporting our community, and we’re taking a stand that no one can just take this away from us,” he said. “It’s our peace of mind.”
Jail officials said that Mr. Roof would make a court appearance on Friday afternoon.


 









Related Coverage



Church Massacre Suspect Held as Charleston Grieves

						After a 14-hour search, the suspect was caught some 200 miles away from the historic black church where nine people were killed.						
							U.S.							June 23, 2015





The Shootings in a Charleston Church

						Where the attack happened, some statistics behind hate crimes, and maps of Charleston’s shifting population.						
							U.S.							June 23, 2015





With Charleston Shooting, a Time to Stop Teaching Children About the ‘History’ of Racial Violence

						How many of your children have come home from school to tell you that black people “used to” be treated differently?						
							U.S.							June 22, 2015



 
 







Advertisement










                    © 2015

 The New York Times Company




Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












