City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department | FOX40 
City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department

Posted 7:28 PM, July 9, 2015, by Marin Austin 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





MARYSVILLE —
“Jared poses no threat to society,” those are the words coming from Marysville City Attorney Brand Bordsen. A letter signed by that name was addressed to a judge in Butte County and written on behalf of Jared Tomlinson, a convicted child molester and former Marysville Police Department Reserve Officer.
“If there were ever a case where minimum punishment were in order,” it reads, “this would be such a case.” Bordsen has since been removed by this law firm, contracted by the city to do City Attorney work, from his position as city attorney.
“I am really disappointed in the entire city,” Rose Davis told FOX40 Thursday. Davis’ son was molested when was 14, almost a decade ago.
She, and other Marysville residents are questioning why city officials didn’t fire Bordsen.
“The city council should have stepped up to the plate as a moral thing and said you know we’re not going to tolerate this” business owner Brenda Robbins said Thursday.
In addition to Bordsen’s letter, several other letters were written to the same judge. One, written by Detective Chris Miller asks the judge to give Tomlinson “minimum punishment.”
Detective Miller is now on administrative leave.
“I was not aware of the letter. We have department letterhead that is supposed to go out with the chief’s signature.” Chief Aaron Easton told FOX40.
Additionally, a letter on Tomlinson’s behalf written by the chief’s office secretary was also sent to the judge.
“There are some questions as to whether or not the letters violate our internal policy.” Easton told FOX40 Thursday, adding that the city has hired an outsider investigator to look in to any misconduct.
The City of Marysville was not available for comment, but did release a statement, “…When the report of the independent outside investigator is received, the City will take appropriate discipline in all cases of employee misconduct.”
Tomlinson was sentenced last month to two years in prison.



Filed in: News 













 






 Join FOX40 Tonight at 10
Watch on FOX40 News at 10







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Mother of Sex Crime Victim Pleads for Justice for Son


Local News

Police: ‘Peeping Tom’ Caught on Surveillance, Arrested Next Day


National and World News

Freddie Gray Death Ruled Homicide; 6 Officers Charged


Local News News

Complaint Details Allegations of Sexual Harassment, Secret Recordings Against Ceres PD


National and World News

Freddie Gray Death: Grand Jury Indicts Police Officers



 


Local News

Marysville Police Investigate Fight, Shooting


National and World News

Video Shows Delaware Police Officer Kicking Man in Head


Political Connection

Loretta Lynch Confirmed as New Attorney General


Local News

Marysville Man Killed Over Medical Marijuana Was ‘Caring,’ ‘Giving’


National and World News

Maryland Governor Declares State of Emergency, Activates National Guard to Help with Riot



 


Local News

Yuba City Officer Accused in Cocaine Trafficking Scheme


Local News

Woodland’s MRAP Gets a Makeover, New Name


Local News

Turlock Teen Found Safe, Alleged Abductor Arrested in Las Vegas






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















