Marysville Police Investigate Fight, Shooting | FOX40 
Marysville Police Investigate Fight, Shooting | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Marysville Police Investigate Fight, Shooting

Posted 3:14 PM, June 8, 2015, by Ian McDonald 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


MARYSVILLE–
Police in Marysville are investigating a shooting that happened late Sunday along Sampson Street.
According to investigators, an argument be a man, later identified as 50-year-old Gene Tanksley Jr., arguing with two men in a 90’s model Honda Accord.
The man’s sister, 49-year-old Darla Stillwell, came outside to see what was happening, one man got out of the car and attacked her, police said. According to detectives, Stillwell said she defended herself and had one of her fingers bitten.
Tanksley tried to intervene, police say, but was shot one time in the abdomen. He was taken to Rideout Hospital.
Both suspects left the area.
Police say one of the men is described as an Asian male in his 20’s, with a dark complexion and dark hair tied in a bun. He was wearing a white t-shirt and may have had tattoos on his face. The second man was described as an Hispanic male with a green shirt and short brown hair.
Anyone with information is asked to contact the Marysville Police Department at (530) 749-3900.



Filed in: Local News 













 






FOX40 Rewards
More Ways To Get Points. Join Now!







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal


Local News

Police: Man Kidnapped, Driven Around on 4-Hour Joyride


Local News

Police Searching for Suspect in Elk Grove Chase Bank Robbery


National and World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


Local News

Police: ‘Peeping Tom’ Caught on Surveillance, Arrested Next Day



 


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


National and World News

Charleston Victims: 9 Lives Lost to Family and Community


Local News

Suspect Identified in Fatal Shooting Outside Stockton Church


National and World News

Man Accused of Beating, Strangling Dog with Shoelace


News

Sac State Police Look for Assault Suspect



 


Local News

Elk Grove Police Investigating Armed Bank Robbery


National and World News

New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting


National and World News

Judge Says of Dallas Suspect: ‘I Knew He Was Going to do Something’






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















