South Carolina Ex-Police Officer Indicted in Walter Scott Killing | FOX40 
South Carolina Ex-Police Officer Indicted in Walter Scott Killing | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







South Carolina Ex-Police Officer Indicted in Walter Scott Killing

Posted 9:33 AM, June 8, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 




 
This still, released by the family of Walter Scott, appears to show North Charleston, South Carolina police officer Michael Slager shooting Scott in the back as he ran away from the officer. The incident took place Saturday, April 4, 2015. (Courtesy: Scott Family) 


×
South Carolina Ex-Police Officer Indicted in Walter Scott Killing


 This still, released by the family of Walter Scott, appears to show North Charleston, South Carolina police officer Michael Slager shooting Scott in the back as he ran away from the officer. The incident took place Saturday, April 4, 2015. (Courtesy: Scott Family)


NORTH CHARLSTON, South Carolina (CNN)–
South Carolina prosecutor Scarlett Wilson said Monday that a grand jury has indicted former North Charleston police officer Michael Slager on a murder charge. 
Slager is accused of shooting and killing motorist Walter Scott. In April, Slager pulled Scott over, reportedly for a faulty brake light. Video released showed the men talking then Scott getting out of his vehicle and running away.
According to a police report, Scott, a 50-year-old African-American man, did not comply with an officer’s demands and tried to grab Slager’s stun gun. Slager is white.
A widely circulated video taken by a bystander with a phone shows Scott attempting to run. His back is to Slager, who, from a few yards away, raises his gun and fires.
Slager shot eight times, and Scott was hit five times. Scott died at the scene. 
Slager was fired from the department, arrested and charged with murder.
Slager’s attorney, Andy Savage, told CNN Monday that his defense team has not yet been given prosecutors’ investigative materials as requested and would not comment on “any aspect” of the case until they have that information.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News Topics: Walter Scott shooting 













 






Like FOX40 on Facebook!
Join the conversation by commenting on the FOX40News Facebook page







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












National and World News

South Carolina Police Shooting: Authorities Release Dash Cam Video


National and World News

New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting


National and World News

Officer Charged with Murder after Video Shows him Shooting Man in Back


National and World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are Jail Neighbors, Police Confirm


Local News

Former Sheriff John McGinness Weighs in on South Carolina Shooting



 


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War


News

FBI Investigating Cause of Latest Church Fire


National and World News

Gov. Nikki Haley Calls for Removal of Confederate Flag from South Carolina Capitol Grounds


National and World News

Baltimore Riots: Security Beefed Up After Looting, Fires



 


National and World News

Woman Says Charleston Shooter Spared Her to ‘Tell Everyone’ What Happened


Local News

Protesters Take Over the Streets in Stockton


National and World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















