Stockton Police Department Investigating Four Separate Shootings | FOX40 
Stockton Police Department Investigating Four Separate Shootings | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







UPDATE: Stockton Police Investigate Five Separate Shootings

Posted 9:48 PM, May 25, 2015, by Genny McLaren 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


STOCKTON-
The Stockton Police Department was busy Monday night as officers investigated five separate shooting scenes in which at least nine people were injured.
At 8:30 p.m. a shooting was reported at 8th and Lincoln streets. The victim is an adult female with non-life-threatening injuries, according to police.
A second shooting was reported at 8:47 p.m. on the 1500 block of Spring Street. The victims in this shooting are two adult males with what appear to be non-life-threatening injuries. The victims are not being cooperative, according to police.
A third shooting was reported in the Cal/Park Area at 8:50 p.m. An adult victim showed up at an area hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. The victim is very uncooperative, according to police.
A fourth shooting was reported on the 1000 block of North Wilson Way about 9 p.m. Three adult males were injured. One is listed in critical condition. The other two have what appear to be non-life-threatening injuries.
A fifth shooting was reported in the area of West and Morada lanes at 10:30 p.m. Two victims have what appear to be non-life-threatening injuries.
Officer Joe Silva with the Stockton Police Department said Tuesday morning that the shooting appeared to be related to an “ongoing group or gang dispute.”
As of 10:30 p.m. Monday night, there were no fatalities reported.
Stay with FOX40 and FOX40.com for updates on this developing story.



Filed in: Local News 













 






FOX40 Rewards
More Ways To Get Points. Join Now!







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Increased Stockton Police Presence Expected after String of Shootings


Local News

UPDATE: Two Killed in Separate Incidents in Stockton


Local News

7-Year-Old Vallejo Child Hit by Gunfire


News

Sac PD Investigates Two Saturday Morning Shootings


News

Three Shooting Victims Discovered In Vallejo



 


National and World News News

Another Shark Attack Reported Off NC Coast


Local News

Tracy Woman Accused Of Shooting Husband


National and World News

Security Guard Killed During Shooting at U.S. Census Bureau


Local News

Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal


Local News

Suspects Accused of Burglary, Killing Tire Shop Employee Arraigned



 


News

One Dead, One Injured in Two North Sacramento Shootings


National and World News

Another Shark Attack Along NC Coast; 8th Attack in Less than a Month


National and World News

Shark Attack Reported Off NC Coast; Video, Photos Shared on Social Media






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















