Police Investigate Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton | FOX40 
Police Investigate Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Suspect Killed in Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton

Posted 7:09 PM, June 14, 2015, by Genny McLaren and Nicole Comstock 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





STOCKTON —
A 28-year-old man is dead after Stockton Police say he assaulted a woman, led them on a dangerous chase in a stolen vehicle, and attempted to hit officers with the car.
“They saw this man attacking this woman so they were just doing their jobs and basically went to stop it,” Stockton Police Officer Joe Silva said.
Silva told FOX40 two Stockton police officers witnessed the man, later identified as Kenneth Garcia, violently assaulting the woman in that stolen vehicle near Pershing and Rosemarie. When officers approached the vehicle, Silva said Garcia sped away, leading police on a dangerous chase.
“It got so dangerous because the suspect got on I-5 in the wrong direction, so the officers terminated the pursuit,” Silva said.
Police spotted Garcia again off the freeway and resumed the pursuit. It eventually came to an end in a residential neighborhood near Delano Avenue and Calariva Drive. Silva said when officers approached the vehicle, the suspect drove directly at two separate officers, an action that constituted assault with a deadly weapon. Silva confirmed the two officers fired multiple rounds at Garcia. He was transported to a hospital where he later died.
Kenneth Garcia (Courtesy: Stockton Police Department)
“He was swerving in their direction, trying to hit officers, with what turns out to be a stolen vehicle,” Silva said.
Neighbors told FOX40 they feel the officers were justified using deadly force.
“Basically he didn’t try to stop the car, he tried to run over the cop,” neighbor Brandon Jaggars said. “I heard them say stop the car.”
“It escalated somewhere else and ended here. What if it would have continued on? Who knows how many other people, how many officers could have been injured? We’re out here at this time walking our kids around the block everyday,” neighbor Rochelle Mesa said.
“For something like this to happen here is very unusual even to have gunfire and car chases it totally out of the norm. That’s why we don’t even know what to do,” neighbor Mike Halliwell said.
Silva said the woman who was reportedly being assaulted remained in the car throughout the pursuit and was not injured during the shooting. Stockton Police were questioning her to determine exactly how she knew Garcia.
Police later determined that Garcia was on post-release community supervision on gun-related charges.



Filed in: Local News 













 






Circle FOX40 on G+!
Join the conversation by circling FOX40 on Google+







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Police Capture Mother’s Day Kidnapping Suspect


Local News

Suspected Subway Shooter Taken into Custody


Local News

Man Robbed at Gunpoint After Arranging Meet-Up with Woman He Met Online


Local News

POLICE: Stockton K9 Dies on Duty After Air Conditioner in Vehicle Fails


Local News

Suspected Copper Wire Thief Electrocuted in Stockton



 


Local News

Suspect Hits Sacramento Police Car During Pursuit


Local News

Stockton Police Report Spike in Armed Robberies


National and World News News

Dallas Police HQ Attack: Suspect Believed Killed During Standoff


Local News

Stockton Police Investigating Homicide Near Railroad Tracks


Local News

Stockton Police Mourn Loss of K9; Review Department Policies



 


Local News

Increased Stockton Police Presence Expected after String of Shootings


Local News

Home Invasion Goes Wrong… for the Robbers


Local News

Stockton to Get Rid of Red Light Cameras






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















