Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal | FOX40 
Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal

Posted 8:15 AM, June 12, 2015, by Ian McDonald 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 




STOCKTON–
Police in Stockton are investigating four shootings that happened Thursday. Two of the shootings were fatal.
South Grant Street
The first shooting happened shortly before 3:30 p.m. along South Grant Street in the Seaport District. Police say a man demanded the victim’s cell phone. When the victim refused, he was shot, police said.
The man was taken to a hospital.
Investigators describe the suspect as a Hispanic man in his early 20’s, about 5 feet 7 inches tall, between 140 and 160 pounds with short hair, a light complexion and a small goatee, last seen wearing a white t-shirt and dark denim shorts.
East Alpine Avenue
Police say a man was shot at 4 p.m. along East Alpine Avenue in the Civic District. According to investigators the man was accused by the suspect of doing “something” to a family member of the suspect, and shot. The suspected shooter left in a green car down Sutter Street. The victim was taken to a nearby hospital.
East Martin Luther King Boulevard
A man was shot and killed in what appears to be an attempted robbery, police said. Two men demanded money from a man along East Martin Luther King Boulevard and South Stanislaus Street in the Seaport District shortly before 6 p.m.
Investigators say the man was shot while he was reaching into his pocket.
East Sonora Street
A man walking down Sonora Street was approached by a car full of people around 9:30 p.m. Thursday. A passenger got out of the car and shot the man at least once before the car sped off.
The man later died at the hospital.



Filed in: Local News 













 






Like FOX40 on Facebook!
Join the conversation by commenting on the FOX40News Facebook page







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Suspected Subway Shooter Taken into Custody


Local News

Man Shot, Killed in Oak Park Home


Local News

UPDATE: Two Killed in Separate Incidents in Stockton


Local News

Marysville Police Investigate Fight, Shooting


Local News

Increased Stockton Police Presence Expected after String of Shootings



 


Local News

Suspects Accused of Burglary, Killing Tire Shop Employee Arraigned


Local News

Stockton Man Found Shot, Killed near Smith Canal


Local News

Turlock Man Shot to Death


Local News

Shooting in Stockton Leaves One Man Dead


Local News

Man Shot, Killed in Front of Broadway Target



 


Local News

Police Search for Suspect After Man Shot Multiple Times in South Sacramento


Local News

7-Year-Old Vallejo Child Hit by Gunfire


Local News

Stockton Family Foils Home Invasion with Baseball Bat






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















