Sac County Deputy Shoots Suspected Gunman in North Highlands | FOX40 
Sac County Deputy Shoots Suspected Gunman in North Highlands | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Sac County Deputy Shoots Suspected Gunman in North Highlands

Posted 2:07 PM, April 10, 2015, by Ian McDonald, Updated at 02:06pm, April 10, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





SACRAMENTO-
A Sacramento County Sheriff’s deputy shot a man Friday afternoon near Watt Avenue and Elkhorn Boulevard, in the North Highlands area.
According to department spokesperson Sergeant Lisa Bowman, a man was seen harassing a woman in front of a store, cussing and her and refusing to leave her alone. Bowman said it wasn’t clear if the two knew each other.
When deputies arrived, they attempted to contact the suspect who dropped a backpack he was carrying and fled through an adjacent parking lot. At one point, he pulled a gun and fired a shot at an uninvolved citizen who was attempting to assist deputies. The citizen was not hit.
Joanne Miller witnessed the events.
“I just heard shots. We were eating, then shots. Then the cops started coming. I heard the helicopter. How crazy was it here? It was really crazy,” she said.
He then ran through a hole in a chain fence into an open field. More Samaritans followed, attempting to aid the deputies.  When he was cornered, the suspect fired at least one additional round toward the crowd of people.
A deputy fired a shot at the suspect and hit him in the arm, disabling the weapon from his grip. He was taken into custody and transported to the hospital for a non-life threatening gunshot wound.
There were no citizens hit by gunfire during the incident.
Once medically cleared, the suspect will be booked into the Sacramento Main Jail.
The deputy who fired the shot that hit the suspect is a 19 year veteran of the department, currently assigned to field and investigative services.



Filed in: Local News 













 






FOX40 Rewards
More Ways To Get Points. Join Now!







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

19-Year Sheriff’s Deputy on Administrative Leave After Shooting


Local News

Suspect in Carmichael Shooting, Standoff Identified


Local News

Grenade Discovered in North Highlands Storage Unit


Local News

Police Search for Suspect After Man Shot Multiple Times in South Sacramento


Local News News

Man Shot and Killed in Rancho Cordova, Deputies Searching for Shooter



 


Local News

Community Continues to Mourn Death of Jadianna Larsen


Local News News

Woman Shot in Front of Apartment Complex Near Arden Fair Mall


Local News

Detectives Investigating Shooting at North Highlands Gun Range


National and World News

Deputy Charged in Deadly Tulsa Shooting


Local News

New Details Emerge about Man Shot Multiple Times by Officer



 


Local News

Widow Pleas to Bring Deputy’s Memorial Bench Back


Local News

Deputies Investigating Leads in Search for Missing 6-Year-Old Girl


Local News

Woman Uses Facebook to Escape Attacker






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















