Dallas Police HQ Attack: Suspect Believed Killed During Standoff | FOX40 
Dallas Police HQ Attack: Suspect Believed Killed During Standoff | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Dallas Police HQ Attack: Suspect Believed Killed During Standoff

Posted 10:19 AM, June 13, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


(CNN) — A man unleashed a barrage of gunfire on Dallas’ police headquarters and planted explosives outside the building early Saturday — but narrowly failed to wound anyone — leading to a chase to a suburb that ended with officers shooting him in his parked van at a restaurant parking lot.
Police believe they killed the suspect, though they haven’t confirmed his death yet. Late Saturday morning were using a robot to probe the van in the suburb of Hutchins because the suspect claimed he had rigged the vehicle with explosives, Dallas Police Chief David Brown told reporters.
“We believe this suspect meant to kill officers,” Brown said. “We barely survived the intentions of this suspect.”
Before he was shot, the suspect ranted to police by phone, giving his name and alleging police were responsible for his child having been taken from him, but investigators haven’t confirmed his identity, Brown said.
Police planned controlled explosions at the van in the parking lot of a Jack in the Box restaurant in Hutchins to ensue the vehicle could be safely approached, Brown said.
The attack began shortly after midnight, with the man firing an assault weapon and then a shotgun from the outside, riddling police cars and the windows of the headquarters, which sits across the street from a large apartment and office complex.
Officers, staffers and perhaps others narrowly avoided being shot. The chief said rounds hit not only an occupied squad car but also the police headquarters’ front lobby, its information desk and the building’s second floor.
One lobby staffer had just risen from a desk to get a soda — and bullet holes there suggest that the worker would have been shot otherwise, Brown said.
Bullets might have been whizzing near residents across the street, too. Rick Birt, who lives in the South Side on Lamar complex, was taking a phone video of the gunfire from his open apartment window.
“I heard snaps overhead, so I could tell that was rounds coming in our direction,” Birt, a former Marine, told CNN.
Parts of the initial attack were caught on video by several people nearby, and the police chief said he believed the sounds indicated some of the gunfire came close to those making the recordings. But based on the suspect’s calls to police, “we think he was specifically targeting police officers,” Brown said.
The attacker also planted at least one set of pipe bombs in a bag outside, designed to “explode upon touch,” Brown said.
Police returned fire and gave chase. Video recorded by a witness and aired on CNN shows the dark van ramming the nose of a police car before retreating in reverse.
Chase, another shootout, and standoff
After the shootout at police headquarters, the suspect called 911 and gave a four- to five-minute rant, accusing of police of being to blame for him losing custody of a child, Brown said.
Police later found his number and called him back, eventually allowing SWAT officers to negotiate.
Officers pursued the van to the restaurant parking lot in Hutchins — roughly 13 miles to the southeast of the Dallas police headquarters — and the man opened a van door and again shot at police, injuring no one, Brown said.
Police called the man for negotiations. The suspect in the vehicle gave police the name James Boulware. Police said that they cannot independently confirm that it is the suspect’s real identity.
Police found a previous record of domestic violence by a man under that name. The suspect told police that he was angry because they took away his child and labeled him a terrorist.
He threatened to blow them up and broke off negotiations, Brown said.
Shortly after 4:30 a.m. (5:30 a.m. ET), police used a .50-caliber rifle to hit the engine block, disabling the van, Brown said, because the man on the phone had been increasingly hostile and agitated. Police didn’t want him to drive away and threaten anyone else, Brown said.
About a half-hour later, SWAT snipers shot the man through the van’s front windshield, Brown said.
The man had become increasingly angry and made threats before cutting off the negotiations, the chief said.
“They (SWAT officers) made the call, and I believe it’s the right call … to stop his violence,” Brown said.
Officer almost tripped on bomb near HQ, ‘wouldn’t have survived’
Back outside headquarters, police found at least one package of pipe bombs. It was set to detonate upon touch, Brown said.
“(An officer), during the searching, almost tripped over it. If he had touched it, he wouldn’t have survived,” Brown said.
The package exploded when a bomb-squad robot tried to move it Saturday morning, police said.
Dallas police posted a tweet showing that vehicles were damaged in the blast.
Former Marine captured video
The crackling sound of the Dallas shootout got the attention of Birt, the ex-Marine who lives across the street from the police headquarters with his wife.
“We heard loud noises, my wife asked if I thought they were shots,” he said. “I went over to the window and put one of them up. And we heard more shots being fired, and I turned to my wife and said, ‘Yeah, that’s definitely gunfire.'”
He got his cell phone and recorded video. After the van fled, police informed him and his wife that they and others to evacuate the building.
Dallas police said the complex’s residents might have to stay away for hours, since officers needed to determine whether more bombs were planted in the area.
As for the suspect, investigators have no reason to believe the man had “any nexus to terrorism,” Brown said.
Investigators are looking into whether a van sold in Newnan, Georgia, on eBay last week may be the van used in the Dallas attack, a source familiar with the investigation said. They are investigating, among other things, who may have purchased the vehicle.
 

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (6 images)





Inline



 





Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News, News 













 






 Join FOX40 Tonight at 10
Watch on FOX40 News at 10







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












National and World News

Explosives Found, Suspect Cornered after Gunfire Targets Dallas Police HQ


National and World News

Judge Says of Dallas Suspect: ‘I Knew He Was Going to do Something’


National and World News

New Orleans Police Officer Killed While Transporting Prisoner


National and World News

Freddie Gray Investigative Files Go to Prosecutors, Police Say


Local News

Fatal Drive-by Shooting in South Sacramento Leaves One Dead



 


National and World News

2 Police Officers Shot Dead in Mississippi; Suspects in Custody


Local News

POLICE: Suspect Caught Committing Crime — Twice


National and World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


Local News

Suspect Identified in Fatal Shooting Outside Stockton Church


National and World News

Security Guard Killed During Shooting at U.S. Census Bureau



 


Local News

Suspect Killed in Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton


Local News

Police Investigate Fatal Shooting in North Sacramento


National and World News News

Cincinnati Man Calls 911 On Self, Kills Responding Officer






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















