POLICE: Suspect Caught Committing Crime — Twice | FOX40 
POLICE: Suspect Caught Committing Crime — Twice | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







POLICE: Suspect Caught Committing Crime — Twice

Posted 5:36 PM, June 17, 2015, by Sara Zendehnam 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





ROSEVILLE —
A suspect on a crime spree is caught doing the same thing not once, but twice, according to police.
According to the Roseville Police Department, a suspicious man was reported riding a bike on the 1600 block of Soledad Drive on May 27.
That suspect turned out to be 28-year-old Pavel Ustimchuk, who was detained by officers.
Another officer found a woman inside a pickup truck, and upon searching the vehicle, found another bike, drugs including heroin and methamphetamine, burglar’s tools and suspected stolen property including credit cards.
Ustimchuk and the woman from Rio Linda were arrested on suspicion of theft, drug possession and other charges, according to the Roseville Police Department.
Ann Sokolsky, who lives in the area Ustimchuk hit first, said she moved to the neighborhood because she thought it was safe, but now she has concerns.
“Just to know that something like that happened to you it’s a little nerve rattling,” she said.
That wasn’t the end of Ustimchuk’s alleged crime spree.
He was released on $60,000 bond on June 3, after being slapped with additional charges of being an ex-felon in possession of a stolen firearm and ammunition, and just nine days later was caught in the act again, police said.
This time he was in a grocery store parking lot at Woodcreek Oaks Boulevard and Pleasant Grove Boulevard.
“We detained him and found pretty much the same stuff we found the first time,” said Dee Dee Gunther, public information officer with the Roseville Police Department.
Ustimchuk is being held at the Placer County Jail on $70,000 bail and is facing several charges including vehicle theft, possession of drugs and possession of burglar’s tools and for allegedly committing a felony while out on bail.
Proposition 47 played a role in the drug charges Ustimchuk is currently facing. Those charges were lowered from felonies to misdemeanors.



Filed in: Local News 













 






Circle FOX40 on G+!
Join the conversation by circling FOX40 on Google+







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Roseville Police Need Help IDing Woman Accused of Using Stolen Checks


Local News

Woman Running Alone at Night Assaulted in Roseville


Local News News

Suspects Arrested After Roseville Motorcycle Dealership Heist


National and World News

2 Police Officers Shot Dead in Mississippi; Suspects in Custody


California Connection

Suspect in Killing of San Francisco Woman Had Been Deported Five Times



 


Local News

Creative Ruse Helps Lead Roseville Police to Identity Theft Suspect


Local News

More Racist Acts Tied to Roseville’s Oakmont High School


Local News

Modesto Police Chase Woman in Stolen Ambulance


Local News

Police Investigate Triple Shooting in Fairfield


Local News

Suspect in Carmichael Shooting, Standoff Identified



 


Local News

Suspected Subway Shooter Taken into Custody


National and World News

Photo Shows 2 Chicago Cops Posing Over Black Man Wearing Deer Antlers


Local News

Lincoln Police Investigating Drowning of Woman in Auburn Ravine






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















