Man Suspected in String of South Sacramento Liquor Store Burglaries | FOX40 
Man Suspected in String of South Sacramento Liquor Store Burglaries | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Man Suspected in String of South Sacramento Liquor Store Burglaries

Posted 7:41 PM, June 23, 2015, by Kimberly McDougall 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





SOUTH SACRAMENTO —
It turns out the third time wasn’t the charm for a suspect believed to be behind a string of burglaries in South Sacramento.
Police have identified the suspect as 29-year-old Zachary Chapman.
“What he had done, is he removed the air conditioning unit, and he made his way into the sub-floor of the roof,” Sacramento police Sgt. Dustin Smith said.
The store’s owners said the suspect allegedly cut two holes in the roof of the business, lowered in his ladder and then climbed down into the store.
“They have been taking alcohol, cigarettes and scratchers,” Smith said.
This was the third liquor store to be burglarized in South Sacramento in the past three weeks.
Pints-N-Fifths Liquors is located on Stockton Boulevard and 48th Street. The other two were on Stockton Boulevard and Fowler Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard.
In all three burglaries, police said a suspect used a ladder and went through the roof. Police said this allowed the suspect to be undetected by people on the street — until Tuesday.
“An alert citizen called and said a male subject took a ladder and put it against the building behind us and crawled up on top of the building and grabbed the ladder and pull it up on top of of roof,” Smith said.
Police quickly responded, surrounded the building and trapped the suspect on the roof.
Officers sent a K9 on the roof with the help of the fire department’s ladder. And within minutes, police had the suspect in custody.
“We wouldn’t be able to do our job without the citizens of this great community we live in, and work in, so without them, we wouldn’t be able to catch people like this,” Smith said.
Police are still waiting to officially link the suspect will all three break-ins, but they do know all three liquor store that were hit had good surveillance video and that the suspect matches the man in the video.



Filed in: Local News 













 






A SILVER ANNIVERSARY
How one group is taking the Americans with Disabilities Act to the next level – Friday on FOX40 News at 8 a.m.







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Suspects Accused of Burglary, Killing Tire Shop Employee Arraigned


Local News

Police Investigating Two South Sac Liquor Store Robberies


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War


Local News

Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal


Local News News

Authorities Investigate Car Crash, Shooting in South Sacramento



 


Local News News

Suspects Arrested After Roseville Motorcycle Dealership Heist


News

One Dead, One Injured in Two North Sacramento Shootings


Local News

Suspect Hits Sacramento Police Car During Pursuit


Local News

Stockton Police Report Spike in Armed Robberies


Local News

Increased Stockton Police Presence Expected after String of Shootings



 


Local News

Girl Grabbed by Stranger


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


Local News

POLICE: Suspects Pull Man into Hotel Room, Steal Shoes, Car






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















