Police Searching for Suspect in Elk Grove Chase Bank Robbery | FOX40 
Police Searching for Suspect in Elk Grove Chase Bank Robbery | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police Searching for Suspect in Elk Grove Chase Bank Robbery

Posted 7:42 PM, May 26, 2015, by Genny McLaren 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


ELK GROVE-
Elk Grove police are looking for a suspect after the Chase Bank on the 7400 block of Laguna Boulevard was robbed on Tuesday.
(Courtesy: Elk Grove Police)
Police say a man demanded money from a teller at about 12:43 p.m. Tuesday. He indicated he had a weapon, but the employee did not actually see it. However, she feared for her safety and complied with the man’s demands.
After grabbing the money, he took off.
No one was injured during the robbery.
There’s no word on how much money the suspect got away with.
The suspect is described as a black male, about 40 years old, 6-feet-five-inches tall with an athletic build. He has short dark hair and was last seen wearing a white shirt with squared patterns, blue jeans and black shoes.
The FBI believes the person responsible for Tuesday’s robbery is connected to a series of bank robberies in the Bay Area.  The suspect in the Bay Area robberies has been identified as 48-year-old Darius Gilbert.
Gilbert has an active felony warrant out of San Francisco for his arrest and should be considered armed and dangerous.
Anyone with information regarding this robbery is asked to call the Elk Grove Police Department Detective Bureau at (916) 478-8060 or Crime Alert at (916) 443-HELP (4357).  Callers to Crime Alert can remain anonymous and may be eligible for a reward of up to $1,000.



Filed in: Local News 













 






A SILVER ANNIVERSARY
How one group is taking the Americans with Disabilities Act to the next level – Friday on FOX40 News at 8 a.m.







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Elk Grove Police Investigating Armed Bank Robbery


Local News

Attempted Robbery at Elk Grove Bank of America


Local News News

Elk Grove Police Searching for Armed Robbery Suspects


California Connection

‘Clean Cut Bandit’ Bank Robbery Suspect Arrested in Los Angeles


Local News

Santa Cruz Police Looking for Suspect in ‘Mrs. Doubtfire Bank Robbery’



 


Local News

Police Investigating Armed Robbery at Fairfield IHOP


News

Man Accused of Beating His Dog to Death and Running From Police


Local News

Car Dealership Shooting Investigated as Suicide


Local News News

U.S. Bank in Lincoln Robbed, Suspect Demands Money with Note


Local News

Elk Grove Church’s Lawn Mowers Stolen



 


Local News

Suspects Accused of Burglary, Killing Tire Shop Employee Arraigned


Local News

Death Penalty Sought Against Man Charged in Stockton Bank Robbery, Chase


Local News

Five Different Robberies of Three Pharmacies in the Past Month






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















