‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 71°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  87°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 GOAL! Explore PIX11’s full coverage of the World Cup Ticker Tape Parade						








 







‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral

Posted 11:37 AM, June 19, 2015, by PIX11 Report, Updated at 11:50am, June 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 





















HENRICO COUNTY, Va. — A message written by Gospel musician Marcus Stanley and posted to Dylann Roof’s Facebook page is going viral.
He posted the message that include the phrase “I love you Dylann” while Roof was on the run after allegedly murdering nine people at a church in Charleston, South Carolina.
Give your heart to Jesus and confess your sins with a heart of forgiveness. He is the only one that can save your soul and forgive you for the terrible acts you’ve done. I love you Dylann, even in the midst of darkness and pain you’ve caused.
The Henrico County man told WTVR that he prayed that his words posted on Roof’s Facebook page would reach the suspected killer. According to the message, Stanley encouraged the suspected shooter to take responsibility for the shooting and try to make amends with God.
Marcus Stanley’s posts message on Dylan Roof’s Facebook page.
Years ago, Stanley was shot eight times at point blank range by a gang member and was left to die. Stanley said his own story of survival is a testimony to what he knows God can do.
Stanley told WTVR that he knew his message was something many people would not understand, but encouraged people to stop attacking and instead reach out with love.



Filed in: News Topics: Charleston, Dylann Roof, Gospel musician Marcus Stanley, South Carolina 













 






BUCKLE UP BOSTON! Yankees take on the Red Sox, Friday at 7 on PIX11
Don’t miss this key game in the ancient rivalry between the Yanks and the Sox, exclusively on PIX11. Catch the pre-game at 6:30 p.m. 







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Program helps kids of incarcerated parents in NYC



NJ family plagued by mysterious illness



Web extra: Christian Borle talks historic dressing room, show us his costumes



Web extra: Brad Oscar and Brooks Ashmanskas talk their dressing room decor





 












News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter



 


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

‘Hate will not win': Victims’ families tell suspected church shooter they forgive him


News

How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC


News

Officers bought Burger King for Dylann Roof after arrest


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting



 


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


Queens

De Blasio, church leaders, rally in Queens for Charleston victims






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















