Off-Duty Ceres Police Officer Accused of Shooting Man Loses Job | FOX40 
Off-Duty Ceres Police Officer Accused of Shooting Man Loses Job | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Off-Duty Ceres Police Officer Accused of Shooting Man Loses Job

Posted 6:59 PM, April 20, 2015, by Kay Recede, Updated at 07:44am, April 21, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





MODESTO-
The off-duty Ceres police officer who allegedly shot a man dead in a Modesto Park has been fired from the department.
The Ceres Police Department confirmed the information with FOX40 and claimed that Thomas Miller did not meet department standards.
They did not say, however, if his termination was related to the shooting that happened at Beyer Park, which is located right next to Beyer High School, in Modesto.
When FOX40 visited Kathleen and Victor Dubose on Monday, one of Jason Moland’s friends stopped by and shared just how much of a positive impact he had on her life.
The Dubose family said they’re comforted with who he was when he was alive, but are looking for answers surrounding his death.
In spite of the pain and grief of losing their son Jason, the Dubose family continues to press on and spoke out on Monday for the first time since his death.
“Cause we want to find out what happened… I’m sorry,” Victor Dubose, the stepfather of Jason said, solemnly.
They’re hoping for more information about what happened at the park.
Jason, they said, was not only an aspiring Stanislaus County deputy, he was a well-loved father and uncle.
“Please. Just asking if anybody has any information. Video, or a witness. Anything,” Kathleen Dubose, his mother said.
As we’ve reported, Modesto Police investigators said off-duty Ceres police officer Thomas Miller was at the park around 10 p.m. with Jason’s wife, Rosio Moland.
Officers claimed, Jason may have been worried about an extra-marital affair between Thomas and Rosio.
They said he confronted the pair with a pellet gun. Miller, who was armed, shot Jason twice.
“Detectives are still investigating. They’re processing evidence and interviewing witnesses at this time,” Heather Graves, spokeswoman with the Modesto Police Department said.
We tried reaching out to Miller, who before his job loss, was a reserve police officer.
When FOX40 crews were leaving a man yelled, “I don’t want to talk to you, go away!”
FOX40 also tried to get Rosio’s side of the story and met the same kind of luck. She said she would release her dogs if crews didn’t get off her property.
Jason’s parents are still reeling from their loss, but they’re finding the courage to speak up and seek closure.
“Please, we just want answers and help,” Kathleen Dubose said.
The Stanislaus County District Attorney’s Office and the Ceres Police Department are also looking into the shooting. The results may be released days or even months from now.
Kathleen Dubose is asking anyone with information about that night to call their family at (916) 896-0521.



Filed in: News 













 






FOX40 Rewards
More Ways To Get Points. Join Now!







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News

Man Dies in Fiery Crash in Modesto


Local News News

Complaint Details Allegations of Sexual Harassment, Secret Recordings Against Ceres PD


National and World News

New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting


Local News

Modesto Police Chase Woman in Stolen Ambulance


Local News

Mother of Man Shot by Officer at Cesar Chavez Park Speaks Out



 


National and World News

South Carolina Police Shooting: Authorities Release Dash Cam Video


Local News

One Shot to Death, Two Suffer Gunshot Wounds at Rancho Cordova Party


National and World News

Officer Charged with Murder after Video Shows him Shooting Man in Back


Local News

Police Investigate Fatal Machete Stabbing at Modesto Park


Local News

Car Dealership Shooting Investigated as Suicide



 


Local News

Man Arrested on Drug Charges After Crashing Car into Boat


Local News

Turlock Police Investigating Possible Drug Related Shooting


Local News

Suspected Subway Shooter Taken into Custody






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















