Santa Cruz Police Looking for Suspect in ‘Mrs. Doubtfire Bank Robbery’ | FOX40 
Santa Cruz Police Looking for Suspect in ‘Mrs. Doubtfire Bank Robbery’ | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Santa Cruz Police Looking for Suspect in ‘Mrs. Doubtfire Bank Robbery’

Posted 2:25 PM, April 7, 2015, by Genny McLaren 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


Surveillance footage shows the bank robbery suspect dressed like a female. (Courtesy: Santa Cruz Police Department)
SANTA CRUZ-
Police in Santa Cruz are looking for a suspect in what they’re calling the “Mrs. Doubtfire bank robbery.”
A suspect used a note demanding money to rob the US Bank on Morrissey Avenue on Friday afternoon. An undisclosed amount of money was given to the suspect. No weapons were seen and no one was injured.
About an hour prior to the robbery, the same suspect was seen at the Rabo Bank on Mission Drive acting suspiciously.
When bank employees contacted the suspect, they were surprised to see that although the suspect was dressed like a female, the suspect was actually a male. The suspect left the bank without committing a crime.
Police have dubbed the case the “Mrs. Doubtfire bank robbery.”
The suspect is described as a male, with dark skin, 25 to 35 years old, weighing between 160 and 170 pounds and standing 5-feet-5-inches tall. The suspect was last seen wearing prescription glasses, a wavy blond wig, dark blue scrubs and a purple long-sleeved undershirt.
Anyone with information on the suspect’s whereabouts or identity is encouraged to contact the Santa Cruz Police Department.



Filed in: Local News 













 






A SILVER ANNIVERSARY
How one group is taking the Americans with Disabilities Act to the next level – Friday on FOX40 News at 8 a.m.







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












News

Unknown Suspect Robbed U.S. Bank In Tracy


Local News

Police Searching for Suspect in Elk Grove Chase Bank Robbery


Local News

Elk Grove Police Investigating Armed Bank Robbery


Local News News

U.S. Bank in Lincoln Robbed, Suspect Demands Money with Note


Local News

Attempted Robbery at Elk Grove Bank of America



 


Local News

Citrus Heights Police Need Help Identifying Suspect Wearing Gorilla Mask


Local News

Roseville Police Need Help Identifying Bank Robbery Suspect


Local News

Tracy Police Need Help IDing Bank Robbery Suspect


Local News

Police Investigating Armed Robbery at Fairfield IHOP


Local News

Stockton Police Seek Help Identifying Robbery Suspect



 


Local News

Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal


National and World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


Local News

Death Penalty Sought Against Man Charged in Stockton Bank Robbery, Chase






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















