Creative Ruse Helps Lead Roseville Police to Identity Theft Suspect | FOX40 
Creative Ruse Helps Lead Roseville Police to Identity Theft Suspect | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Creative Ruse Helps Lead Roseville Police to Identity Theft Suspect

Posted 6:34 PM, April 8, 2015, by Mark Demsky, Updated at 06:33pm, April 8, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





ROSEVILLE-
A creative ruse, along with some help from a citizen, led police in Roseville to arrest a man accused of identity theft.
Ed Tatosian though, isn’t your average citizen. He’s a retired lieutenant from Sacramento.
So, when he woke one morning recently and had received a text alert to his mobile phone that a purchase had been made with his wife’s credit card, he knew something wasn’t right.
“It was about an $1,100 purchase,” Tatosian recalls.  “So, I asked my wife if she had made a purchase while we were sleeping. She said no, and if it were $1,100 I would have told you about it.”
Tatosian knew this probably wasn’t a high-priority crime.  So he did most of the detective work himself.  Calling the company, finding out that a 3D printer was ordered, and the address it was being shipped to.
Coincidentally, that address was nearby, in Sacramento.
“So, I did a little snooping around,” Tatosian explained.  “I found the place, went back and called Roseville PD.  I made a police report, sat down with the officers. The detective did a great job with the information.”
The detective creatively posed as a delivery man, complete with a box the correct size and weight of the printer that was ordered.  When the suspect answered the door, the detective made the arrest.
Robert Porter Jr. was arrested on charges of identity theft and grand theft.
“Too many of these bad guys get away with what they are doing, and the more people can help themselves, the better,” said Tatosian, who gave one last piece of advice.  “Without putting themselves in harms way.”



Filed in: Local News 













 






Like FOX40 on Facebook!
Join the conversation by commenting on the FOX40News Facebook page







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












Local News News

Suspects Arrested After Roseville Motorcycle Dealership Heist


Local News

Family of November Oakmont Hate Crime Victim Speaks Out


Local News

Parents File Lawsuit Against Roseville City School District Over Abuse of Autistic Children


Local News

Man Suspected in String of South Sacramento Liquor Store Burglaries


National and World News

Judge Says of Dallas Suspect: ‘I Knew He Was Going to do Something’



 


Local News

Downey High School Coach Accused of Having Sex with a Student


National and World News

Head of Spokane, Wash. NAACP Chapter Accused of Lying About Her Race; Parents say She’s White


Local News

POLICE: Suspect Caught Committing Crime — Twice


National and World News

Baltimore Riots: Security Beefed Up After Looting, Fires


Local News

Woman Uses Facebook to Escape Attacker



 


National and World News

Police Reveal Real Reason Girl Jumped from Bridge after Shaming Video was Posted


Local News

Police Capture Mother’s Day Kidnapping Suspect


Local News

Roseville Police: Man Threatened to Kill Officers, Blow Up School, Mall






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















