New Orleans Police Arrest Suspect in Killing of Officer | FOX40 
New Orleans Police Arrest Suspect in Killing of Officer | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







New Orleans Police Arrest Suspect in Killing of Officer

Posted 12:07 PM, June 21, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


(CNN) —
The man wanted in the killing of a New Orleans police officer during a prisoner transport is back in custody after a nearly 24-hour manhunt.
“On this Father’s Day Morning, we’re happy to report that Travis Boys, wanted for the killing of New Orleans Police Department Officer Daryle Holloway, has been taken into custody,” read a Louisiana State Police statement.
The New Orleans Police Department’s Twitter account posted at 9:39 a.m. that it had arrested Boys, the man who a day earlier allegedly shot and killed Holloway in his patrol car.
Holloway, a 22-year veteran of the force, was transporting Boys to the Orleans Parish Prison when Boys allegedly freed himself from handcuffs, grabbed a weapon, and shot Holloway as he drove.
The initial investigation indicates that after Boys shot Holloway, the police vehicle crashed and he fled, New Orleans police said in a statement.
Holloway, 45, later died at the hospital.
“Officer Holloway was a dedicated police officer who proudly served his community for more than 20 years and was a father of three,” Superintendent of Police Michael Harrison said Saturday. “He will be deeply missed by all who knew him,” the chief said.
Boys, 33, was initially arrested on outstanding warrants, according to police.
Crime Stoppers announced mere minutes before Boys’ arrest that it had doubled its initial $10,000 reward for information leading to his recapture.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News 













 






FOX40 Rewards
More Ways To Get Points. Join Now!







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












National and World News

New Orleans Police Officer Killed While Transporting Prisoner


National and World News

Teen Speaks Out after Recording Viral Pool Party Video


National and World News

Natalee Holloway’s Father Reveals Details Shared by New ‘Witness’


National and World News

Google Earth Offers New Clues, Raises Questions in Natalee Holloway Case


Local News

Man Shot, Killed by Police After Firing Gun at Citrus Heights Officers



 


National and World News

Judge Says of Dallas Suspect: ‘I Knew He Was Going to do Something’


Local News

Suspected Subway Shooter Taken into Custody


Local News

Former Sheriff John McGinness Weighs in on South Carolina Shooting


National and World News

2 Police Officers Shot Dead in Mississippi; Suspects in Custody


National and World News

Escapee David Sweat Shot, in Custody



 


National and World News

Milwaukee Man Wanted in Killings after Toddler Fatally Run Over Kills Himself in Chicago


National and World News

New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting


Local News

New Details Emerge about Man Shot Multiple Times by Officer






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















