70 Killed in Kenyan University Shooting | FOX40 
70 Killed in Kenyan University Shooting | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 60°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







70 Killed in Kenyan University Shooting

Posted 9:26 AM, April 2, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 




 



×
70 Killed in Kenyan University Shooting


 


A swarm of gunmen stormed a Kenya university before dawn Thursday, opening fire and taking hostages.
At least 70 people were killed at Garissa University College, the Kenyan Interior Ministry said. More than 500 students remain unaccounted for at the campus that had about 815 students, according to the Kenya National Disaster Operation Center.
All staff members are accounted for “and are helping with the tracking of students,” the center said.
The Somalia-based Al-Shabaab militant group claimed responsibility for the assault.
Two terrorists have been killed in an ongoing security operation, the Kenyan Interior Ministry said.
One terrorist was arrested as he tried to slip through a security cordon and flee the scene, security and ministry officials said.
Witness: Gunmen shot non-Muslims
Gunmen burst into early-morning Christian prayers, said Joel Ayora, who was on the campus and witnessed the attack. Taking hostages from the service, the gunmen then “proceeded to the hostels, shooting anybody they came across except their fellows, the Muslims.”
The attackers separated students by religion, allowing Muslims to leave and keeping an unknown number of Christians hostage, Agence France-Presse reported.
“We were sleeping when we heard a loud explosion that was followed by gunshots and everyone started running for safety,” student Japhet Mwala said.
“There are those who were not able to leave the hostels where the gunmen headed and started firing. I am lucky to be alive because I jumped through the fence with other students.”
Eventually, as many as 50 students were freed, and at least 65 people were hospitalized from the attack, the Kenyan Red Cross said.
Nine hours after the attack began, heavy gunfire and explosions continued, said Dennis Okari of CNN affiliate NTV.
Okari said he was told to take cover as hundreds of students fled, some crawling.
Kenyan forces cleared three of four dormitories and had cornered the militants in the last one, the Interior Ministry said.
Photo of wanted man released
The ministry posted a “Most Wanted” notice for a man in connection with the attack. The notice offers a reward of 20 million Kenyan shillings, which is about $215,000. The name listed is Mohamed Mohamud.
The post does not say what role the man may have played in the attack, if any.
It includes the words “Kaa Chonjo,” which means to be on the lookout.
President: Kenya suffering from police shortage
Garissa is about 145 kilometers (90 miles) from the border with Somalia. Al-Shabaab militants have often launched attacks inside Kenya ever since the Kenyan government sent troops across the border to fight the group.
“This is a moment for everyone throughout the country to be vigilant as we continue to confront and defeat our enemies,” Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said.
He called on the inspector-general of police “to take urgent steps” to ensure that 10,000 recruits whose enrollment is pending “promptly report for training at the Kenya Police College, Kiganjo. I take full responsibility for this directive. We have suffered unnecessarily due to shortage of security personnel. Kenya badly needs additional officers, and I will not keep the nation waiting.”
Waking up to terror
The gunshots started going off “like fireworks” around 5 a.m. at the time of the morning prayers, witness Milka Ndung’u told NTV. She and others escaped to a field, but gunshots followed them.
Augustine Alanga told CNN he woke up to the sound of gunfire and described students running around, seeking safety.
Assailants forced their way onto the campus by shooting at guards at the front gates, Kenya National Police said.
From there, attackers moved into a nearby girls’ hostel, the Red Cross said.
It’s not clear how many gunmen were on campus.
“We don’t know how many there were, but there are probably more than 10,” said Robert Alai Onyango, a blogger in Nairobi. “We believe the attackers were wearing something close to military fatigues.”
Onyango said the attackers appeared to be shooting indiscriminately and “basically from all angles.”
“They surrounded the mosque. … We don’t know why they were surrounding the mosque,” Onyango said.
About 300 students who escaped sought refuge at a Kenya Defense Forces camp, local newspaper journalist Steven Astariko said.
“We are saddened & angered by today’s terrorist attack @ #Garissa Univ.,” the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi tweeted. “Our deepest condolences 2 family/friends of victims.”
The university was established in 2011 and is the only public university in the region.
There are usually 800 students in the dormitories when school is in session, Jackstone Kweyu, dean of students, told Citizen TV. There are 1,000 staff members on a normal workday, he said. And there are usually four guards at the campus gates overnight.
The Kenyan Red Cross and the country’s health ministry are organizing a blood drive to help the victims.
Al-Shabaab’s carnage in Kenya
The dangerously porous border between Somalia and Kenya has made it easy for Al-Shabaab militants to cross over and carry out attacks.
The deadliest assault by Al-Shabaab in Kenya was in September 2013 when the group attacked the Westgate shopping center in Nairobi, killing 67 people.
In a December attack on a quarry, Al-Shabaab militants separated Muslims and executed the non-Muslims, a spokesman for the group said.
Last month, the U.S. Embassy warned of possible attacks “throughout Kenya in the near-term” following the reported death of a key al-Shabaab leader, Adan Garaar.
“Although there is no information about a specific location in Kenya for an attack, U.S. citizens are reminded that the potential for terrorism exists,” the warning said.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News, News 













 






 Join FOX40 Tonight at 10
Watch on FOX40 News at 10







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












National and World News

Officials: Two Gunmen Killed Outside Muhammad Cartoon Contest


National and World News

37 Killed by Gunmen at Tunisia Hotel


National and World News News

U.S. Special Operations Conducts Raid in Syria, Kills ISIS Commander


National and World News

Suspect Detained After Beheading, Explosion in France


National and World News

White House: 2 Hostages Accidentally Killed by U.S. Counterterror Forces



 


National and World News

Texas Shooting Suspect Linked Himself to ISIS in Tweets


National and World News News

Sinai Attacks Kill 20 Egyptian Soldiers; ISIS Claims Responsibility


National and World News

U.S. Boosting Security Measures Ahead of July 4th


National and World News

Friend of Boston Marathon Bomber Sentenced to Six Years


National and World News

Source: New York Escapee Richard Matt Shot, Killed by Police; Sweat Being Pursued



 


National and World News

Red Cross Calls for Immediate Ceasefire in Yemen


National and World News

Animals Roam Streets of Tbilisi after Flooding Kills 12, Frees Zoo Animals


Local News National and World News

U.S. Military Bases Under Heightened Security After Terrorist Threats






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















