North Carolina man accused of accidentally shooting, killing his girlfriend | myfox8.com 
North Carolina man accused of accidentally shooting, killing his girlfriend | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







North Carolina man accused of accidentally shooting, killing his girlfriend

Posted 8:27 pm, May 2, 2015, by Web Staff 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Derrick Williams 


×
North Carolina man accused of accidentally shooting, killing his girlfriend


 Derrick Williams


WILSON’S MILLS, N.C. — A North Carolina man is accused of accidentally shooting and killing his girlfriend.
WNCN reported that 42-year-old Derrick Williams faces a charge of second-degree murder in connection to the death of 18-year-old Moesha Lockamy.
Wilson’s Mills police were called to a home on Saturday and found the victim suffering from a single gunshot wound to the chest, according to the TV station. She was pronounced dead at the scene.
Authorities believe the suspect was playing with a firearm at the time of the shooting. The incident remains under investigation.
The suspect was placed in jail under a $100,000 bond and has court planned for next week.



Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

NC man accused of shooting, killing pregnant girlfriend; baby survives


News

North Carolina man shoots, kills man trying to rob him


News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

16-year-old wearing bulletproof vest shoots, injures NC officer


News

North Carolina man accused of assaulting news photographer filming house



 


News

Archdale man accused of shooting, killing man after argument at mobile home park


News

12-year-old murder suspect arrested hundreds of miles away from crime scene


News

Suspect in Wayne County Community College killing captured sleeping on beach


News

Homicide suspect had standoff with Greensboro police


News

Teenager killed in NC shooting



 


News

Milwaukee man wanted in killings after toddler fatally run over kills himself in Chicago


News

Suspect in Chapel Hill shooting deaths of three college students to face judge


News

GoFundMe page for sister of accused Charleston church shooter taken down






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















