North Carolina man shoots, kills man trying to rob him | myfox8.com 
North Carolina man shoots, kills man trying to rob him | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







North Carolina man shoots, kills man trying to rob him

Posted 1:20 pm, June 20, 2015, by Joe Borlik 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





















CUMBERLAND COUNTY, N.C. — A North Carolina man fought back against three men accused of trying to rob him, killing one and scaring off the other two.
The Fayetteville Observer reported that it happened early Thursday morning at a neighborhood in Hope Mills.
The victim was near his vehicle when he was approached by three men who tried to rob him at gunpoint, according to the paper.
The victim then took out a firearm from his vehicle and fired it, killing one of the suspects and scaring off the two others, according to reports.
The victim was also shot, and suffered a gunshot wound to the abdomen area, according to officials. He was taken to the hospital to be treated.
Authorities are still looking for the other two suspects. The deceased suspect was pronounced dead at the scene.

34.954260
-78.747621




Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

NC man accused of trying to offer children money to leave baseball field with him


News

NC Girl Scout troop scammed with fake $100 for cookies


News

Man forced from truck in Winston-Salem armed robbery


News

Prosecutor: SC teen planned to kill NC soldiers at military base, join ISIS


News

NC business owner’s son shoots man trying to steal chainsaw



 


News

Man accused of driving nearly 140 mph on North Carolina highway


News

Man charged in stabbing death at North Carolina hotel


News

North Carolina man attacked by pack of dogs while mountain biking


News

Man accused of masturbating naked outside of university in North Carolina


News

What’s behind increase in shark attacks off the Carolinas?



 


News

NC man accused of walking into gas station, pulling down pants while on meth


News

12-year-old murder suspect arrested hundreds of miles away from crime scene


News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















