Police officer charged with murder after shown on video shooting black man in back | FOX2now.com 
Police officer charged with murder after shown on video shooting black man in back | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX 2 News  

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

71°







71°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Police officer charged with murder after shown on video shooting black man in back

Posted 7:06 pm, April 7, 2015, by Tribune Media 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 



CHARLESTON, S.C. — A South Carolina officer has been charged with murder after a video surfaced that appears to show him shooting an unarmed man who was running away.
Editor’s note: The video is graphic. Viewer discretion advised. 
Michael Slager, an officer with the North Charleston Police Department, was arrested Tuesday, according to a statement from the Suth Carolina Law Enforcement Division, or SLED. If found guilty of murder, he could face up to life in prison or death.
 Michael Slager, an officer with the North Charleston Police Department
The shooting took place Saturday after a traffic stop, SLED said. Video obtained by The New York Times shows what happened.
A black man breaks away from the white officer. Something falls, and the officer fires eight shots at the man as the man runs away.
The man, who appears to be unarmed, drops to the ground.
“I can tell you that as the result of that video and the bad decision made by our officer, he will be charged with murder,” North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey told reporters Tuesday. “When you’re wrong, you’re wrong.”
CNN affiliate WCIV identified the victim as 50-year-old Walter Scott. His family spoke to WCIV over the weekend, before the officer was arrested, describing Scott as a good man who was about to be married.
“All we want is the truth, and we’ll go any length to get that so that my brother can rest in peace,” Anthony Scott told the affiliate.
According to WCIV, Slager initially said through his attorney, David Aylor, that he followed the appropriate policies and procedures.
Aylor later told CNN that he no longer represents the officer, and it was unclear whether Slager had obtained new representation.



Filed in: Trending Topics: charged, man in the back, murder, police officer, video shooting 













 






STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Smart phone app to help recovering heroin addicts



Nixon signs bill setting municipal court limits



Former Oakland Raiders QB Stabler dead at 69



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook





 












News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

The Latest: Rally for black man killed by cop draws about 50


News

Officer charged with murder after shooting black man in back: What we know


News

Officer who killed Walter Scott fired; protesters demand justice


News

South Carolina ex-police officer indicted in Walter Scott killing



 


News

South Carolina shooting: Walter Scott didn’t grab Taser, video witness says


News

Walter Scott’s family plans burial as questions swirl in his death


News

New audio captures officer ‘laughing’ after deadly South Carolina shooting


News

New witness, dash cam video emerge in South Carolina shooting case


News

5 things to know for your New Day — Tuesday, April 14



 


Trending

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect


News

Cameras roll while police actions go wrong — and right


News

Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















