How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 71°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  87°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 GOAL! Explore PIX11’s full coverage of the World Cup Ticker Tape Parade						








 







How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC

Posted 7:40 PM, June 18, 2015, by James Ford, Updated at 08:00pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 





HARLEM — He’s a 21 year-old with a clear interest in white supremacy, who has almost as many black friends on his Facebook page as he does whites. To say that accused Charleston church mass murderer Dylann Roof is enigmatic may be an understatement. One thing is clear, however. Even though he is innocent until proven guilty of this hate crime, he’s shown numerous times recently support for white domination.
The profile photo on Roof’s Facebook page shows that sewn onto his high school jacket were two flags: one of South Africa during apartheid a that of Rhodesia, which was what the African country Zimbabwe was called when it was under apartheid — rule by a minority of white people over the black majority.
Also, South Carolina has only rear license plates, so the front plate holder can legally remain empty or contain any image. In the case of Roof (pronounced Raaf), he displayed a Confederate States of America license plate.
It was the same car that Roof was seen on surveillance video driving away from the church in, and in which he was found, 240 miles northwest of the mass murder scene, in North Carolina.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (2 images)




 


“He was stopped because a citizen alerted law enforcement to a suspicious activity,” said Charleston police chief Gregory Mullen at a news conference late Thursday morning, “and law enforcement went out and they knew that, once they arrived there, that it was the individual that we were looking for.”
People who know Roof said that he regularly told racist jokes, to which they paid little mind. People who survived the shooting reported that he made further, more harsh racist comments to them, before opening fire.
“I’m here to kill black people,” he said, as well as, “You rape our women and you’re taking over the country. You have to go.”
He killed nine people, then fled. Because surveillance video from the scene captured images of Roof, a friend was able to identify him, and police were able to capture Roof.



“How did this person go from being a beautiful infant to this?” asked Graham Witherspoon, a director of the Brooklyn based organization Black Law Enforcement Alliance. “What brought him to this point?”
Witherspoon, a retired 20-year veteran NYPD detective, has trained a variety of people in church security, and said in an interview with PIX11 News that it’s even more pertinent now in the wake of the Charleston shooting. In fact, Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Thursday that the NYPD was increasing patrols at African American churches in New York.
At Abyssinian Baptist Church, perhaps the most the most prominent church in Harlem, there’s typically a security detail of off-duty state police and other officers, but they were in greater number and vigilance on Thursday, both because of added events in reaction to the Charleston shooting, and because of the heightened need for security that the mass murder provoked.
“Sometimes it’s necessary to have security at churches,” said Witherspoon, “uniform or plainclothes.”


PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]


PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit


DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says


New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]



Related stories

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community




Filed in: News 













 






Watch The CW Now!
See last night’s episodes now on The CW







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Program helps kids of incarcerated parents in NYC



NJ family plagued by mysterious illness



Web extra: Christian Borle talks historic dressing room, show us his costumes



Web extra: Brad Oscar and Brooks Ashmanskas talk their dressing room decor





 












News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Officers bought Burger King for Dylann Roof after arrest


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter



 


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre



 


News

‘Hate will not win': Victims’ families tell suspected church shooter they forgive him


News

South Carolina lawmakers to debate Confederate flag on Monday


News

Manifesto allegedly belonging to accused Charleston shooter found online






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















