Body cam video released after high-speed chase through Zion National Park | fox13now.com 
Body cam video released after high-speed chase through Zion National Park | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Body cam video released after high-speed chase through Zion National Park

Posted 11:21 am, April 22, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and Zach Whitney, Updated at 04:09pm, April 23, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





KANE COUNTY, Utah – Authorities have a suspect in custody after they said he led them on a high-speed chase through two Utah counties and a national park Tuesday.
The Kane County Sheriff’s Office arrested Oscar Manuel Flores after federal, state and local agencies got involved with the chase that started in Kane County.
Austin Gomez.
Officials said he originally lied about his identity and gave them the false name Austin Gomez when he was apprehended.
Deputies said the pursuit started when Kanab City Police were called about a stolen car just before 7 p.m.
Kane County deputies spotted the black Mitsubishi on U.S. 89 north of Kanab.
“They ran the plate to verify that it was stolen,” said Kane County Sheriff deputy Marvin Hoyt. “When they verified that, they tried to initiate a stop and the vehicle sped up.”
Hoyt said Flores drove into Zion National Park and as luck would have it, Kane County deputies were at their annual tactical tracking class east of the park.
The Utah DPS helicopter team was at the training and immediately started following Flores in the air.
The chase went through Zion National Park and into Springdale. Hoyt said cooperation with cities and agencies along Highway 9 helped ensure no one was injured in the pursuit.
Deputies radioed ahead so those agencies were prepared. Still, Hoyt said Flores was all over the road.



“He almost hit a pedestrian,” Hoyt said. “He had to stop and go into the oncoming lane to pass people on double yellow through the towns.”
Officials were able to spike two of the car tires in Virgin, but Flores was able to drive on to La Verkin. There a Washington County sheriff deputy preformed a PIT maneuver, which crashed the car into a guardrail.
Hoyt said Flores tried to run but was caught soon after and is in custody at the Washington County Purgatory Correctional Facility.
Investigators said Flores is a transient from Tucson, Ariz.
Flores is facing numerous charges including evading police, proving false info to police, criminal mischief, theft and failure to stop.





37.293251
-112.429146




Filed in: News Topics: chase, crime, Kane County, st. george, Zion National Park 








			1 Comment		




 

rockwelljrhank

Please, never secure the border with Mexico. Leaving it open will provide a continuous supply of entertainment for us Legal Residents.




							April 23, 2015 at 9:04 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Police: Cedar City man leads authorities on pursuit through Zion National Park in stolen deputy’s vehicle


News

Search and Rescue responds to fatal fall in Kane County


News

Wounded deputy testifies about shooting in Grunwald trial


News

Deputies arrest nursing bra bandit in Weber County


News

Weber County searching for man accused of kidnapping woman in car



 


News

Heavily intoxicated man leads police on high-speed chase, rams several cars in the process


News

Missing elderly man found dead near Canyonlands National Park, truck appeared stuck in sand


News

Flash flood warning for portions of southern Utah; all slot canyons at Zion National Park closed


News

Spike strips used to stop suspect fleeing from UHP


News

Jury finds Meagan Grunwald guilty of aggravated murder, other charges



 


News

Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera


News

Prosecution wraps up its case in Grunwald murder trial


News

Ten California deputies put on leave after video shows man being beaten in San Bernardino County






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















