Suspect accused of breaking into churches is on run in Utah County | fox13now.com 
Suspect accused of breaking into churches is on run in Utah County | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Suspect accused of breaking into churches is on run in Utah County

Posted 3:09 pm, May 20, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and Scott McKane, Updated at 05:22pm, May 20, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





LEHI, Utah – For the second time this spring, someone broke into and a Utah County church and got away with electronics and a few other items.
This time the suspect was caught on camera and police now say he may be a serial burglar.
The latest break-in happened Monday night at the Alpine Bible Church in Lehi.
In the surveillance video, the suspect uses a pry bar to force his way in the door.
Then, once inside, he helped himself to a laptop and some other things.
The pastor of the church said this is the second time they’ve been broken into and robbed.
Lehi police are investigating and said, based on the general appearance of the suspect, he may be linked to even more, unsolved crimes in the area.
In this latest case, the burglar left behind potential evidence, some of his burglary tools.
Detectives sent those to the crime lab to see if there are fingerprints.
If you know the suspect or have any information about the case, call Lehi Police at (801) 768-7110.

40.391617
-111.850766




Filed in: News Topics: crime, Lehi 













 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera


News

Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding


News

Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home


News

Two arrested in connection with at least 20 burglaries in Centerville


News

Saudi Arabian government says Orem rape suspect has no ties to royalty



 


News

New hospital in Lehi opens its doors to patients Monday


News

Paraglider expected to survive after crashing into mountain in Lehi


News

One teen killed, others injured in Utah County rollover accident


News

Video catches brazen burglars in recent Sandy burglary spike


News

Utah church choir director arrested after admitting to sex acts with 12-year-old



 


News

Video released of deadly shooting in Tulsa; police say deputy accidentally used firearm


News

Suspect in custody for Provo arson cases


News

Both suspects in armed robbery at Family Dollar now in custody






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















