Police seek help identifying suspect in assault at club in Taylorsville | fox13now.com 
Police seek help identifying suspect in assault at club in Taylorsville | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police seek help identifying suspect in assault at club in Taylorsville

Posted 9:04 pm, April 12, 2015, by Mark Green 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 


 

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (3 images)





 


SALT LAKE CITY – Police are asking the public for help identifying a man wanted in connection with an assault that occurred at a club in Taylorsville last month.
According to information from the Unified Police Department, the assault occurred around 1:12 a.m. on March 29 at Club DJ’s, located at 3849 West 5400 South in Taylorsville.
The suspect was with two females who got into an argument. The male victim got in between the two females.
After the argument, the victim went to apologize for getting in the middle of the argument. One of the females grabbed the victim by the hand and told him to leave. While the victim was looking at her, “The suspect stood up from the table and punched the victim in the face while the victim was distracted.”
The suspect, who is pictured above, fled the scene. Anyone who knows the identity of the man is asked to contact police at 385-468-9814.



Filed in: News Topics: assault, Unified Police Department 








			2 comments		




 

truth

All you have to do is create a free clothing give a way at a local gen x, boom, got him, case closed, may ever get a couple more warrant arrests as well.




							April 12, 2015 at 10:24 pm						








 

JOEY

hahaha that’s the funniest comment ive seen on this site! its funny because its true!




							April 14, 2015 at 8:25 am						








Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Man swaps old shoes for new pair then hits, injures employee while escaping in vehicle


News

Unified Police: Man, 18, stabbed brother, 36, over money


News

Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery


News

‘F— you pig!’ Drunken suspect allegedly left infant in hot car, assaulted 4 people including police


News

Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store



 


News

Police looking for suspects in Millcreek shooting


News

DNA links serial rapist to assaults in Utah, Wyoming; investigation ongoing


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City


News

Police seek burglary suspect who has outstanding warrants for assault, theft


News

Two people stabbed in Millcreek



 


News

Bullet grazes man’s back after early morning shooting in Sandy


News

Police in Utah County seek suspect after stabbing


News

Pleasant Grove police arrest second suspect in alleged bank robbery






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















