Police in Utah County seek suspect after stabbing | fox13now.com 
Police in Utah County seek suspect after stabbing | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					66°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  89°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police in Utah County seek suspect after stabbing

Posted 9:52 pm, June 14, 2015, by Mark Green 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Police in Utah County seek suspect after stabbing


 


SPRINGVILLE, Utah – Police are seeking a man who allegedly stabbed another man in the chest following a fight in Springville Sunday evening.
According to a press release from the Springville Department of Public Safety, officers seek 21-year-old Jordan Willey Wood, who is also known as “Montel Showtime”, in connection with a stabbing that occurred around 6 p.m.
Witnesses report a 22-year-old Springville resident walked to a neighbor’s home and began arguing with a resident there. As the argument continued, Wood—who does not live at the home—began to insert himself into the argument and at one point pulled out a knife as if he intended to use it in a fight.
The homeowner wanted to stop the fight, and he told everyone to leave and that he wouldn’t allow fighting at his home. As the victim began walking away, Wood reportedly followed him and then lunged with the knife.
The victim suffered a stab wound just beneath the rib cage on his left side, and when he fled the suspect initially chased him. The victim made it to another neighbor’s home, where he called 911.
The victim was taken to a hospital, and family members tell authorities the knife “Barely missed his heart.”
Police said they believe Wood is still in the Utah County area, and anyone who spots him is asked to call police.



Filed in: News Topics: Springville, stabbing 








			1 Comment		




 

bob

“Montel Showtime”, eh?  
Loser.




							June 15, 2015 at 3:38 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



More homes flooding on Ogden’s east bench, water source unknown



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds





 












News

Police arrest ‘Montel Showtime’ wanted for stabbing man in Springville


News

Unified Police: Man, 18, stabbed brother, 36, over money


News

Bullet grazes man’s back after early morning shooting in Sandy


News

Father of victim speaks after alleged murder in Brigham City


News

DA rules officer was justified in fatal shooting in Draper, cites body cam footage



 


News

Man stabbed multiple times at West Jordan apartment


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City


News

‘F— you pig!’ Drunken suspect allegedly left infant in hot car, assaulted 4 people including police


News

Child sex offenders ditch ankle monitors, arrested in Utah


News

Suspect in custody after Centerville man checking on his chickens finds, tackles fugitive



 


News

Layton woman stabbed, flown to University Hospital


News

Men wanted for kidnapping, forgery, exploitation; claimed to be elderly victim’s ‘personal assistants’


News

SLC police: officer shoots knife-wielding man after responding to woman’s screams






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















