Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash | Fox 59 
Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash

Posted 7:34 AM, June 12, 2015, by Matt Adams - Web Producer, Updated at 11:59am, June 12, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 
Matthew Edmonds 


×
Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash


 Matthew Edmonds


INDIANAPOLIS (June 12, 2015) – A man accused of stealing from a Beech Grove Walmart and leading police on a chase that led to a fatal crash faces a dozen charges related to the incident.
During a hearing Friday, bond was set at $250,000 for Matthew Edmonds, 21, Indianapolis. He was also advised of his rights and given court-appointed counsel.
According to police, Edmonds was behind the wheel when his SUV ran a red light and slammed into a pickup truck and car in the Fountain Square area Monday morning. He was trying to escape police at the time.
Donna Niblock, 63, died as a result of the crash. Her 11-year-old grandson was seriously injured and taken to Riley Hospital for Children at IU Health. LaDonna Rogers, 37, another passenger in the pickup, was also injured and taken to Eskenazi Hospital.
Edmonds faces three counts of resisting law enforcement with a vehicle, one count of reckless homicide, three counts of driving with a suspended license causing death or bodily injury, three counts of failing to remain at the scene of an accident causing death or serious bodily injury, one count of theft and one count of failing to remain at the scene of a crash.
The pursuit began after police say Edmonds stole items from the Walmart in Beech Grove on Monday morning. A Beech Grove police officer tried to stop Edmonds, but he continued at a high rate of speed. The pursuit moved from Beech Grove Police Department territory into IMPD’s jurisdiction. Both departments called off the pursuit because of safety concerns.
Edmonds briefly evaded police, but IMPD officers spotted him. According to IMPD, Edmonds ran a red light at South State Avenue and East Prospect Street a minute later, leading to the fatal crash. He got out of his vehicle and tried to run away, but police quickly caught him.



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Suspect in police chase causes fatal accident near Fountain Square; woman killed identified


Crimetracker News

Man turns himself in, faces murder charge in fatal Indianapolis stabbing


Crimetracker News

Man turns himself in after hit-and-run that critically injured woman


News

Motorcyclist seriously injured in east side Indianapolis crash


National & World News

Cleveland officer found not guilty in killing unarmed pair



 


News

Police: Three injured after driver crashes into car and two bicyclists in Madison County


News

Police guidelines determine when to pursue suspects in a chase


News

Two people hurt after pickup truck, bicycle crash in Johnson County


News

At least 2 people hurt after fiery crash in Morgan County


News

IMPD recruit trainee arrested on drunk driving charge after driving wrong way on I-465



 


Crimetracker News

Former Jared Foundation Director Russell Taylor attempted to commit suicide in Marion County Jail


Crimetracker News

Police arrest men accused of leaving scene of crash that killed child


Crimetracker News

Prosecutors charge two in massive auto theft ring in Hancock County






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















