Police identify men involved in fatal shooting stemming from chase | Fox 59 
Police identify men involved in fatal shooting stemming from chase | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police identify men involved in fatal shooting stemming from chase

Posted 7:17 PM, June 23, 2015, by Kylee Wierks - Web Producer and Charlie De Mar 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (June 23, 2015) – A man is dead and another in custody following a Tuesday night police chase on the northeast side of Indianapolis.
Matthew Cole
On Wednesday, police identified the driver as Matthew Cole, 41, Indianapolis. The passenger was identified as Joshua Dyer, 34, Huntington.
According to IMPD, an officer approached the two men, who were parked in the Washington Park parking lot on Tuesday night. Police say the car was in an area that is not authorized for vehicles. Next, the driver, Cole, took off in the white Nissan Maxima.
“At some point, the driver sped off and a short pursuit ensued,” said IMPD Sgt. Kendale Adams.
A police chase began and lasted for several blocks, winding through busy city streets.
The car crashed through several fences before stopping in an alley near the intersection of East 38th Street and North Tacoma Avenue.
IMPD officers surrounded the car with their guns drawn.
Cole got out of the car, and then jumped back inside and slammed it in reverse.
“What we know at this point is an officer fired a shot striking a passenger,” said Adams.
As the car was backing up, an IMPD officer shot into the car, hitting Dyer.
“I saw the police officer limp off and they told us to get away and we left,” said a witness who shot cell phone video of the shooting.
Cole was taken into custody a short time later on a charge of resisting arrest. Dyer was unresponsive and declared dead at the scene. An autopsy is scheduled for Wednesday.
“It’s senseless and  crazy– just to see a dead body on the back of those peoples’ houses,” said witness Kenneth Walker.
It is unclear why the driver initially sped away from officers.
The IMPD officer who shot Dyer will be placed on administrative leave pending an internal investigation.
No officers were injured in the incident.



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Suspect in police chase causes fatal accident near Fountain Square; woman killed identified


News

Police search for suspect who struck and killed pedestrian on Indy’s north side


News

Police investigate 3 accidents involving pedestrians over the weekend; 2 people killed


Crimetracker News

Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash


News

Police guidelines determine when to pursue suspects in a chase



 


Crimetracker News

Victim takes suspect’s gun in early morning shooting


News

Several law enforcement agencies target Southwest side for ‘Guns, drugs and warrants’


News

IMPD officer opens fire after avoiding speeding car; driver arrested on OWI charge


News

UPDATE: Woman killed in motorcycle accident involving off-duty IMPD officer in Downtown Indy


Crimetracker News

IMPD targets speeders to reduce hit and runs



 


Crimetracker News

Suspects break into cars at Fishers YMCA, lead police on chase


News

Two in custody after police chase at Castleton Square Mall


Crimetracker News

Fleeing narcotics suspect crashes into car, injures innocent driver on east side of Indianapolis






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















