Police search for suspect who struck and killed pedestrian on Indy’s north side | Fox 59 
Police search for suspect who struck and killed pedestrian on Indy’s north side | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police search for suspect who struck and killed pedestrian on Indy’s north side

Posted 11:20 PM, June 28, 2015, by Alexis McAdams 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (June 28, 2015) – Cars whizzed by on Kessler Boulevard and Crestview Avenue on the city`s north side Sunday afternoon, just a few hours after a man was struck by a car and killed in yet another hit-and-run incident. The call came through around 4 a.m.  Police found the victim lying in the street and pronounced him dead at the scene. He was later identified as Thomas Abell, 27, of Indianapolis.
“If you obviously hit someone, you stop. But this individual felt that as if fleeing was the appropriate course of action and this is where we are,” says IMPD Officer Chris Wilburn.
Neighbors who live near the scene of the hit-and-run on Kessler say there are several accidents that stem from people driving over the speed limit.
“The road goes from wide to narrow and people do not realize it, and they are going too fast.  It is not that safe,” says neighbor Adam Issacson.
Another hit and run happened Saturday around 3 a.m. Twenty-three-year old Brogan Price Corya was hit while crossing the street near Georgia and Meridian.  Police say the driver, 20-year-old Shyann Thompson, took off in her Black PT Cruiser.  A witness yelled out the car`s description to an officer, and Thompson was arrested just minutes later.  An officer says Thompson appeared to be high, listing in his police report that he could smell marijuana in the car.  Thompson`s grandma tells us it was an accident – and says the 20-year-old feels terrible is praying the victim recovers quickly.
“It was an accident, purely an accident. My granddaughter did not mean to do anything wrong.”
Police say if you hit someone, leaving the scene only makes it worse.
“What we want people to understand is, you made a mistake, stay put, own it, and let us as a law enforcement agency and a community at large address those issues,” says Wilburn.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Police investigate 3 accidents involving pedestrians over the weekend; 2 people killed


News

Police investigate fatal hit-and-run on Northside; 2nd incident this weekend


News

Two people hit by car after accident on city’s northwest side


News

Police looking for driver after fatal hit-and-run on near northwest side


Crimetracker News

IMPD targets speeders to reduce hit and runs



 


News

Suspect detained, victim identified after fatal hit-and-run on south side


Crimetracker News

Jury finds woman guilty in connection with hit-and-run crash that killed Franklin man


News

Pedestrian seriously hurt in hit-and-run accident on Indy’s northeast side


Crimetracker News

Five vehicles damaged after hit-and-run crash at west side apartment complex


News

Man hurt after after hit-and-run crash on northeast side



 


News

Juvenile struck by vehicle on north side


News

Bicyclist seriously hurt after Monday morning crash on east side


Crimetracker News

Man, 82, fatally shot on eastside of Indianapolis, vehicle of interest identified






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















