Indianapolis police search for suspect who stole thousands of dollars and gun from man in wheelchair | Fox 59 
Indianapolis police search for suspect who stole thousands of dollars and gun from man in wheelchair | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Indianapolis police search for suspect who stole thousands of dollars and gun from man in wheelchair

Posted 4:10 PM, July 7, 2015, by Kylee Wierks - Web Producer 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (2 images)




 


INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (July 7, 2015) – Indianapolis police are asking for your help identifying a suspect who robbed a man in a wheelchair on June 23.
According to IMPD, the victim was leaving Walmart on Lafayette Road around 10 p.m. when he was stopped by a man offering to help with his groceries. The man climbed into the victim’s van to help, and then he asked for money.
The victim refused, and the man returned to his car.
Police say the suspect stuck around the Walmart parking lot waiting for the victim to leave. He then followed the victim’s van.
The victim was driving southbound in the 5400 block of North Alton Avenue when the suspect sped up in front of his van and cut him off.
The suspect got out of his car and approached the victim on the driver’s side window.  The suspect punched the victim in the face and stole his bag which contained a handgun and thousands of dollars in cash and checks.
The suspect is described as a black male in his twenties. He is 6’0” to 6’2”, skinny build, had shoulder length dreadlocks, and wore glasses.
He was driving a white Chevy Monte Carlo. His car has a sunroof, an In God We Trust license plate, a small round bumper sticker on the left side of the bumper, and possible damage near the trunk lock.
Additionally, the suspect was with a female and four children – two boys and two girls.
If you have any information, please call IMPD or Crime Stoppers at 262-TIPS.



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Unique electronic detection K9 sniffs his way through Jared Fogle’s house





 












News

Police searching for suspect who robbed man in wheelchair on northwest side of Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Police shoot suspect on city’s near east side


Crimetracker News

Homeowner, suspect shot in two incidents on northwest side


Crimetracker News

Victim takes suspect’s gun in early morning shooting


Crimetracker News

Police identify well-dressed criminal as search continues



 


News

Police: Robbery motive in northeast side shooting


Crimetracker News

Good Samaritan robbed while trying to help stranded driver in Columbus


News

Man seriously injured in stabbing on west side of Indianapolis


News

Police searching for impersonator who pulled over, attacked Castleton man


News

Police search for suspects after man shot while mowing lawn on east side



 


News

Bloomington police searching for suspect after sexual assault of 73-year-old woman


Crimetracker News

Two people shot on Indianapolis’ east side; police searching for suspects’ vehicle


National & World News

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















