Suspect in Davidson County breaking and entering leads police on high-speed chase | myfox8.com 
Suspect in Davidson County breaking and entering leads police on high-speed chase | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

80°







80°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Suspect in Davidson County breaking and entering leads police on high-speed chase

Posted 8:43 am, May 11, 2015, by Web Staff 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
James Loomis III 


×
Suspect in Davidson County breaking and entering leads police on high-speed chase


 James Loomis III


DAVIDSON COUNTY, N.C. — A 21-year-old led deputies on a high-speed chase through Davidson County Saturday.
Deputies were called to the scene of a residential breaking and entering in progress at 6368 E. Old U.S. Highway 64 in Lexington.
On the way to the scene deputies saw a vehicle driving away from the home that matched the description of the suspect’s vehicle.
When deputies tried to pull the vehicle over but the driver led them on a chase that reached speeds in excess of 90 mph.
Deputies said James Loomis III, 21, led them into Thomasville city before the chase ended on N.C. Highway 109 South and Liberty Drive.
Loomis was taken into custody and was charged with breaking and entering; eluding arrest with a motor vehicle; failure to heed to lights or siren; reckless driving and speeding.
He was placed in the  Davidson County Detention Center under a $25,000 secure bond.
Loomis is scheduled to appear on  Lexington District Court on June 17.

35.765864
-80.170650









Filed in: News Topics: breaking and entering, high speed chase 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Lexington man leads police on chase, crashes into 2 patrol cars


News

3 arrested in connection to series of breaking and entering attempts in Davidson County


News

Lexington man faces 19 counts of breaking and entering


News

Man accused of leading deputy on chase in Burlington, shooting patrol car, crashing into another


News

Victims identified in fatal motorcycle crash in Davidson County



 


News

High Point man leads Guilford deputies on high-speed chase


News

Alleged home invaders used stun gun on 4-month-old NC baby


News

Photos reveal severity of Burlington crash involving deputy and K-9


News

NC mother accused of jumping out of moving car with baby inside during chase


News

Driver accused of hitting 9-year-old girl, fleeing in High Point arrested



 


News

Police: Driver with 2-year-old child, meth arrested after 100 mph chase


News

Man arrested after sexually assaulting another inmate in Davidson County


News

Suspect in stolen vehicle chase causes motorcycle accident in Kernersville






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















