Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 71°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  87°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 GOAL! Explore PIX11’s full coverage of the World Cup Ticker Tape Parade						








 







Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings

Posted 8:32 AM, June 20, 2015, by PIX11 Report and CNN, Updated at 08:38am, June 20, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 





CHARLESTON, S.C. — The family of the man accused of killing nine people at a Charleston church has issued their first statement on the slayings.
The statement read:
“The Roof Family would like to extend their deepest sympathies and condolences to families of the victims in Wednesday night’s shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston. Words cannot express our shock, grief, and disbelief as to what happened that night. We are devastated and saddened by what occurred. We offer our prayers, sympathy for all of those impacted by these events.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of those killed this week. We have all been touched by the moving words from the victims’ families offering God’s forgiveness and love in the face of such horrible suffering.”
“Our hope and prayer is for peace and healing for the families of the victims, the Charleston community, and those touched by these events throughout the state of South Carolina and our nation.”
Roof appeared before a judge via video conference Friday and showed little reaction or emotion when addressed by the victims’ loved ones. He is accused of nine counts of murder and possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime, police in South Carolina said.
The suspected gunman confessed to investigators that he opened fire Wednesday evening inside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, CNN reports. He allegedly told them he had wanted to start a race war.
A survivor who was inside the church when shots rang out said Roof answered one man’s pleas to stop by saying, “No, you’ve raped our women, and you are taking over the country … I have to do what I have to do.”
A friend recalled a drunken Roof ranting one night about his unspecified six-month plan “to do something crazy” in order “to start a race war.” And the Berkeley County, South Carolina, government tweeted a picture of him in a jacket with flags from apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that was ruled by a white minority until it became independent in 1980.
After the massacre inside the church, the gunman hopped in a car and headed north, investigators said. He was spotted by a woman heading to work who called police then trailed him for more than 30 miles, keeping authorities updated along the way.
Police in Shelby, N.C., — about 245 miles from Charleston — pulled over Roof and took him into custody.
The federal Department of Justice is probing the attack as a hate crime.
CNN contributed to this report.
 


Related stories

Emotional vigil held in Brooklyn for Charleston victims
One of the victims in South Carolina church massacre has ties to New Jersey
NRA board member blames church shooting victim Clementa Pinckney for Charleston shooting




Filed in: News Topics: Charleston massacre, Dylann Roof, family statement, roof family 













 






Watch NJ Lottery drawings live
Winning numbers and daily results







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Program helps kids of incarcerated parents in NYC



NJ family plagued by mysterious illness



Web extra: Christian Borle talks historic dressing room, show us his costumes



Web extra: Brad Oscar and Brooks Ashmanskas talk their dressing room decor





 












News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Vigils held in Harlem to remember victims of South Carolina church shooting


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre



 


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

‘Amazing Grace': President Obama eulogizes Rev. Clementa Pinckney, slain in church massacre  



 


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















