World Animal Protection - Animals in Disasters Blog - Update: assisting evacuations, ready to deploy: Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby)
World Animal Protection - Animals in Disasters Blog - Update: assisting evacuations, ready to deploy: Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby)










World Animal Protection - Animals in Disasters Blog







Home
About disaster management
The Disaster Response Team
About World Animal Protection
ARCH members
Subscribe
Archives










« Philippines braces for Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby)  |
	Main
	| Update: Typhoon Hagupit, disaster response team on the way to help animals »








Update: assisting evacuations, ready to deploy: Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby)


While preliminary news reports suggest that human fatalities were low, Typhoon Hagupit is slowly making its way across The Philippines now.
  
The Philippines regularly experiences floods and storm surges brought by typhoons. Filipinos go to great lengths to save their animals, sometimes putting themselves at risk to do so. © Ezra Acayan/World Animal Protection 2014
We're cautiously optimistic that the mass evacuations - among the largest ever in peacetime - have kept people safe. What we now want to determine is the impact the storm has had on the animals.
  
While our Mayon response is focused chiefly on evacuating and caring for livestock due to the rural setting, urban disasters demonstrate the  importance people place on their pets as well. We are always ready to help animals in all settings survive and, in turn, help their owners. © Ezra Acayan/World Animal Protection 2014
Hagupit crossed over Bicol Region where we're already evacuating animals from Mount Mayon's eruptions. With over thirteen years experience in the area, we were able to immediately get in touch with local vets and government to ensure animals were being evacuated to safe places to survive the storm.
 
A young girl holds her cat at an evacuation centre. © Ezra Acayan/World Animal Protection 2013
With the sheer size of the storm, we are concerned about other areas that may have not been as prepared. As well, it will lash both urban and rural settings so we'll be identifying where the need is greatest and focus our initial efforts there if our help is needed. Whether it is farm animals or pets, we are ready to help.
 
We work to ensure that entire communities - people and animals have the help they need in disasters. © Ezra Acayan/World Animal Protection 2013
We've been working through the weekend and stand ready to deploy if the animals and their owners need us. I'll keep you posted but rest assured, the preparations we've put in place are being used, and many livestock and pets that would otherwise have been left to the mercy of the once Super Typhoon are safe in the areas where we've been working.





Posted by Scott Cantin on 12/08/2014 at 08:44 AM | Permalink




 | Digg This
 | Save to del.icio.us
 | 
Tweet This!
 | 








Comments


Update: assisting evacuations, ready to deploy: Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby)
While preliminary news reports suggest that human fatalities were low, Typhoon Hagupit is slowly making its way across The Philippines now.
  
The Philippines regularly experiences floods and storm surges brought by typhoons. Filipinos go to great lengths to save their animals, sometimes putting themselves at risk to do so. © Ezra Acayan/World Animal Protection 2014
We're cautiously optimistic that the mass evacuations - among the largest ever in peacetime - have kept people safe. What we now want to determine is the impact the storm has had on the animals.
  
While our Mayon response is focused chiefly on evacuating and caring for livestock due to the rural setting, urban disasters demonstrate the  importance people place on their pets as well. We are always ready to help animals in all settings survive and, in turn, help their owners. © Ezra Acayan/World Animal Protection 2014
Hagupit crossed over Bicol Region where we're already evacuating animals from Mount Mayon's eruptions. With over thirteen years experience in the area, we were able to immediately get in touch with local vets and government to ensure animals were being evacuated to safe places to survive the storm.
 
A young girl holds her cat at an evacuation centre. © Ezra Acayan/World Animal Protection 2013
With the sheer size of the storm, we are concerned about other areas that may have not been as prepared. As well, it will lash both urban and rural settings so we'll be identifying where the need is greatest and focus our initial efforts there if our help is needed. Whether it is farm animals or pets, we are ready to help.
 
We work to ensure that entire communities - people and animals have the help they need in disasters. © Ezra Acayan/World Animal Protection 2013
We've been working through the weekend and stand ready to deploy if the animals and their owners need us. I'll keep you posted but rest assured, the preparations we've put in place are being used, and many livestock and pets that would otherwise have been left to the mercy of the once Super Typhoon are safe in the areas where we've been working.



View the entire comment thread.
Please enable JavaScript if you would like to comment on this blog.









Donate Now







Share on Facebook


Share




Share on Twitter


Tweet




Archives


December 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
March 2014
February 2014
December 2013




Categories


Animal Welfare
Animals in Disasters
Current Affairs
Disasters
Travel
Web/Tech
Weblogs







 





Powered by TypePad






























