AmeriCares: Emergency Air Shipment Arrives in the Philippines 
AmeriCares: Emergency Air Shipment Arrives in the Philippines












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Emergency Air Shipment Arrives in the Philippines
AmeriCares ongoing flood relief helps more than 10,000 families









Tweet










														  
														January 10, 2012


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                
















Two thousand pounds of urgently needed medical aid arrived in Manila, the Philippines, on December 28—the most recent shipment in AmeriCares’ ongoing effort  to help ease  profound human suffering for more than 10,000 families in this flood-ravaged nation.  

Join us in saving lives in the Philippines and around the world. »

Immediate Response


Within 48 hours of the December 18 flood disaster, triggered by Tropical Storm Washi, AmeriCares medical donations—strategically pre-positioned and warehoused in Manila earlier in 2011 —were airlifted to Mindanao for distribution to injured and displaced survivors. 
Once in Mindanao, many disaster items were delivered immediately by helicopter to the most remote, heavily flooded communities of Iligan and Cagayan de Oro.  This advance planning and logistical coordination enabled lifesaving nutritionals, along with pain relievers and other medications, to rapidly reach those most in need.






Rapid Air Shipment 

To supplement the prepositioned aid, AmeriCares rushed the most recent air shipment from its warehouse in Stamford, CT containing:



1,452 courses of antibiotics to combat infection

1,355 courses of dermatological and antifungal medications

500 courses of cardiovascular medicines

250 hygiene kits

180 blankets


$10,000 Flash Grant


In addition, AmeriCares awarded a $10,000 flash grant to a local partner to procure items that fill crucial resource gaps, including medicines to treat leptospirosis, an infectious disease that poses a serious threat to flood survivors, enough clean drinking water for 15,000 people, and relief items for evacuees.


Since 1985, AmeriCares has delivered more than $165 million in medicines, medical supplies and humanitarian aid to the Philippines to support more than 70 institutions, medical and disaster relief teams helping people in need.


Donate Now



















Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

