AmeriCares: Field Report:  Meeting Immediate and Long-Term Health Needs on Panay Island 
AmeriCares: Field Report:  Meeting Immediate and Long-Term Health Needs on Panay Island












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Field Report:  Meeting Immediate and Long-Term Health Needs on Panay Island
Large scale response addresses immediate and long-term health needs









Tweet










														  
														December 19, 2013


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                















Brian Hoyer, director of AmeriCares post-emergency programs and a member of our Haiyan response team, worked with our partner the International Organization for Migration (IOM) on Panay Island in the Philippines in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan to help meet the immediate needs of survivors. 
“The typhoon cut directly through Capiz and Iloilo provinces on the island,” said Brian. “In some coastal areas, up to 95% of structures were lost – including many health care facilities. Our immediate support included providing emergency medicines, supplies, and access to electricity at key health units. We worked side-by-side with local health authorities to help quickly fill urgent gaps.”
AmeriCares distributed 10 emergency primary care kits for delivery to several hard hit areas in Capiz and Iloilo.  The kits included enough medicines, antibiotics and medical supplies for an estimated 300 patient consultations.
“The kits were delivered to health facilities in Pilar, and Pontevedra municipalities and to mobile medical teams working in the outlying islands of Panay municipality where health facilities have been completely destroyed,” said Brian. “An additional supply of 40 more kits, tailored to meet the changing health needs, were prepared overnight and sent to Iloilo Province for use at Buenavista, Carles, an island about a one hour by boat from the hard hit town center of Estancia, as well as Lumbia, another remote area on the eastern coast.”
One survivor, 72-year-old Estelita from Tabok, Pontevedra, received the antibiotics she needed to heal a severe foot infection she sustained after the storm.
We have benefited greatly from AmeriCares and IOM support which was delivered as promised.”  Dr. Nolasco, Physician in charge at Pilar Rural Health Unit in Pilar Municipality.
For weeks following the storm, power outages throughout Capiz and Northern Iloilo continue to disrupt healthcare for many communities.
“Nurses and midwives at the Regional Health Units explained that they are concerned to continue with routine child immunizations because they have no nighttime electricity to power a refrigerator used to store vaccine,” said Brian. 







In addition, health units designed to accommodate labor and delivery had to turn women away for referral to the overcrowded district or regional hospitals to give birth. 
“To fill this urgent need, we were able to quickly procure four generators,” explained Brian.  “We delivered the first two to Pilar and Pontevedra health units on November 23 followed a few days later by two additional generators to other outlying health centers.”
Brian continued to work on our long-term response strategy together with our partner, IOM, establishing a recovery project whichincludes the restoration and expansion of primary health care services in Capiz province.  This project has since served as one model for other affected areas.
“From the very early days of AmeriCares’ response, we included the perspective of recovery,” explained Brian. “For example, our support in Western Visayas region has been modeled with the pre-existing primary health care system in mind.  Instead of establishing a new parallel structure, we worked with IOM to reinforce primary care centers in key areas.”
The next stage of support includes physical repairs to several damaged health centers, along with enhancing local health systems with a focus on emergency care and primary health.”


Read More
											  
											Donate Now


















Philippines Disaster Relief Fund
Please help deliver lifesaving aid to families suffering from Super Typhoon Haiyan. Your gift will be restricted to support AmeriCares disaster response in the Philippines.  
Donate Now




Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

