BBC News - Typhoon Hagupit sweeps across Philippines







BBC News - Typhoon Hagupit sweeps across Philippines














        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help   
BBC iDSign in
  BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Asia







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


China
India


























7 December 2014
Last updated at 09:59 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Typhoon Hagupit sweeps across Philippines









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Rupert Wingfield-Hayes reports on the damage done by Typhoon Hagupit



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Typhoon Hagupit in pictures and tweets


Typhoon Hagupit forecast Watch


Typhoon preparation 'has paid off' Watch



Typhoon Hagupit is sweeping across the Philippines, toppling trees and power lines and threatening areas with heavy rain, flooding and mudslides.
About a million people have fled their homes for shelter. The storm has killed at least three people, officials say.
In Tacloban, where thousands were killed by typhoon Haiyan last year, roofs have been blown away and streets are flooded.
But Hagupit does not appear to have been as severe as many had feared.
Hagupit, known locally as Ruby, weakened on Sunday as it continued to move slowly across the Philippines.
It was packing maximum sustained winds of 140km/h (90mph) and gusts of 170km/h (105 mph) at 17:00 local time (0900 GMT), government forecaster Pagasa said. 
The BBC's Jonathan Head in Legazpi, about 200km (125 miles) north of Tacloban, said Hagupit was clearly a powerful storm but nowhere near as powerful as Haiyan.
The authorities believed they were well prepared this time, he adds, but it could be some time before the extent of damage in more remote areas becomes clear.
Correspondents say the Philippines has undergone its largest peacetime evacuation in history. 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Typhoon Hagupit slow to clear



Homes destroyed
Officials say at least three people have been killed by Hagupit. One person was killed by a falling tree in the eastern town of Dolores.
Another two people in the central province of Iloilo reportedly died from hypothermia.
"The devastation in homes is huge because of the strong winds," Philippine Interior Secretary Manuel Roxas told local radio DzBB.
"Many people voluntarily returned to evacuate centres tonight... because they do not have homes anymore."


The BBC's Maria Byrne in Tacloban sent this image of people beginning to clear up along the seafront on Sunday morning

The government has warned residents in low-lying and mountainous areas to be alert to possible flash floods and landslides, while those on the coast were warned of the risk of big waves associated with storm surges.
Soldiers have been deployed to major roads along the typhoon's path, to clear debris from roads and prevent looting.
Joey Salceda, governor of Albay province where Legazpi is situated, told the BBC that the main lesson from Typhoon Haiyan had been to prepare well and to evacuate people from vulnerable areas.
"It doesn't happen overnight so you need to train people. I feel confident we can achieve our zero casualty goal," he said.


High winds sent waves crashing into the coast at Legazpi



Though trees were brought down in Legazpi the city appeared to have escaped extensive damage



Joey Salceda, governor of Albay province, says widespread evacuation has been vital




At the scene: Saira Asher, BBC News, Legazpi
The main cities that have so far been in the path of Typhoon Hagupit look to have avoided major damage. But Northern and Eastern Samar are the big worry now, with many small communities that are isolated. 
The Philippines Red Cross says their teams are trying to get into some of these areas, but floods or fallen trees blocking roads mean they are unreachable. 
Until rescue teams can get to the isolated communities, we will not know the extent of the damage or the loss of life. 
Hagupit is a slow-moving typhoon which means a higher risk of prolonged rain that can cause flooding and mudslides. While we may not be seeing the scenes of mass devastation we saw after Typhoon Haiyan, there is still cause for concern.



The typhoon first made landfall in the Philippines on Saturday. 
It is expected to cross Sibuyan island in the early hours of Monday. According to forecaster Pagasa, it is expected to leave Philippine territory on Thursday morning.


In Borongan city, north-east of Tacloban, buildings were brought down by the strong winds

Maulid Warfa, the head of Unicef's field office in Tacloban, said their five-storey concrete building was shaking under the force of the storm.
Speaking early on Sunday he said: "We're in this dark building and it's raining heavily and there's no electricity and we are using candles.
"We have a generator... but because of the rain and the flood and power problems we have switched it off. It's too dangerous."
Mr Warfa added: "Our concern now is not us sitting in this building. Our concern is for the little children who have had to go through this experience for the second time in 13 months."
About 19,000 people from coastal villages are in 26 evacuation centres, Tacloban's disaster office spokesman Ilderando Bernadas told Reuters.
Haiyan - known as Yolanda in the Philippines - was the most powerful typhoon ever recorded over land. It tore through the central Philippines in November 2013, leaving more than 7,000 dead or missing.







More on This Story


Related Stories



Typhoon Hagupit in pictures and tweets

08 DECEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                ASIA



Typhoon Hagupit forecast Watch

06 DECEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                FEATURES



Typhoon preparation 'has paid off' Watch

07 DECEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                ASIA



Powerful typhoon nears Philippines

05 DECEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                ASIA



Philippines marks Haiyan anniversary

08 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                ASIA



Typhoon Haiyan: Images of then and now

06 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                ASIA



Super Typhoon Haiyan: Satellite images

08 NOVEMBER 2013,                                                
                                                WORLD



Still mourning and trying to survive in Tacloban

07 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                ASIA



Philippines profile

24 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                ASIA











Related Internet links


Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA)



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Asia stories
RSS




Failed bid to raise AirAsia fuselage

The Indonesian official leading efforts to recover AirAsia flight QZ8501 says the fuselage appears to be too fragile to be lifted, after failed bids to raise it.



India and US seal nuclear deal




Murray beats Dimitrov in epic match












Top stories



Greek exit polls suggest Syriza win


Boko Haram attacks key Nigeria city


Murray beats Dimitrov in epic


Sixteen killed in Egypt protests


Ukraine vows to 'calm' fighting









Features & Analysis




The rich world 

Where do the wealthiest 1% live? 	
				  




Laughing together?  Watch

A comedian's take on India US relations 	
				  




Trailer park tales

Share your stories of mobile home living 	
				  




Yoga to drones

President Obama heads for India, but what will get done? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Mickey Mouse and measles



2: American Sniper: An American hero?



3: Where do the wealthiest 1% live?



4: Five things Delhi is doing to keep Obama safe



5: German men 'free to pee standing up'



Read




1: Greek exit polls suggest Syriza win



2: Where do the wealthiest 1% live?



3: Eyes on Pluto for historic encounter



4: Why Finnish babies sleep in boxes



5: Cruise ship hit by engine room fire



6: Sniper film 'stoking Islamophobia'



7: Obama starts three-day India visit



8: Boko Haram attacks key Nigeria city



9: Nisman reporter flees Argentina



10: Ukraine vows to "calm" fighting



Video/Audio




2: Laughing the Indian America way Watch



3: Sharpton: 'Permanent change is coming'  Watch



4: 'Brutal' backlash to Fox News pundit Watch



5: Rusting ship in the South China Sea Watch



6: The drone operator who said 'No'  Watch



7: HMS Victory 'rotting from the inside' Watch



8: Icy mystery: Pluto ready for close-up Watch



9: Bolivia's festival of miniatures Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Shaping our world

The 25 biggest turning points in Earth's history











Programmes



Click Watch

The laser-etched metal surfaces that repel water, plus other technology news






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       Copyright © 2015 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
































    









