Typhoon Haiyan’s Devastating Violence Leaves Millions in Need across the Philippines | Action Against Hunger
Typhoon Haiyan’s Devastating Violence Leaves Millions in Need across the Philippines | Action Against Hunger


Jump to Navigation











Learn about our response to the worst food insecurity situation in the world. Read more » 











Blog
Fundraiser Login
 










AboutACF International
Leadership
Humanitarian Experts
Our Partners
Financials
Careers
Contact

HungerWindow of Opportunity

ImpactNutrition
Water, Sanitation & Hygiene
Food Security & Livelihoods
Emergency Response

Countries
Take ActionDonate
Give Monthly
Fundraise
Buy Gifts
Partner with Us
Attend an Event
Race Against Hunger

Donate


















Typhoon Haiyan’s Devastating Violence Leaves Millions in Need across the Philippines


With over four million affected, Typhoon Haiyan has left thousands dead and tens of thousands cut off.


by James PhelanNovember 10, 2013


Facebook Twitter Google+














Typhoon Haiyan devastates the Philippines. Photo: ACF-Philippines, J. Maitem





Typhoon Haiyan (known as Yolanda in the Philippines) crossed the Philippines with devastating violence two days ago, leaving behind untold destruction and an initial estimate of 1,200 deaths that early evidence suggests may exceed 10,000. An estimated 4.3 million survivors have lost everything and are in need of immediate assistance, with some regions completely cut off from humanitarian assistance. 
Initial surveys suggest a dramatic need for emergency supplies of drinking water, food, and preventative sanitation measures, given the extensive destruction to local water networks and food sources. To date, an official state of emergency has been declared for 38 cities, 215 municipalities, 37 provinces and 9 regions.
Emergency response: Teams already on the ground
With extensive experience working across the Philippines since 2000, Action Against Hunger’s experts were able to mount an immediate emergency response, with teams carrying out initial surveys to assess needs while preparing distributions of drinking water and survival kits containing buckets, soap, and chlorine tablets.
In anticipation of such disasters, ACF maintains stocks of emergency water and sanitation equipment to help stave off outbreaks of waterborne diseases. Our teams have begun setting up mobile water treatment plants, massive “bladders” for distributing clean water, and emergency pumps and filtration systems to ensure access to water in the coming weeks. Additional staff and emergency materiel are also en route as reinforcements.
While the Philippines is prone to such natural disasters year in and year out, Haiyan may have been one of the strongest typhoons witnessed this year, and may even be one of the most violent to arrive in decades.
“There is massive destruction… The last time I saw something of this magnitude, it was the [2004] tsunami in the Indian Ocean.”
– Sebastian Rhodes Stampa, UN Disaster Management Team

Our teams are already hard at work, assessing a situation that is very much in flux, with many areas still inaccessible and cut off from all means of communication. Please consider supporting our efforts as we race to help those affected in the coming hours and days ahead.
 



FacebookTwitter


Help us respond in the Philippines


Donate







 About James Phelan 
  
 James is Action Against Hunger's Deputy Director for External Relations, keeping an eye on global events and program developments.
  


 
 




Tags


2013 Typhoon Haiyan




Philippines




Emergency Response






Comments

View the discussion thread. 







 









Subscribe
Join thousands of hunger fighters and receive our latest updates.
 



 



 


Help Us Save Lives


Help us reach our 2014 lifesaving goals by making a tax-deductible gift. We are a top rated nonprofit, consistently ranked in the top 2% for efficiency.

$50 $100 $250
 


Stay Connected

 


New Video: Ending Deadly Hunger for Good!



Share on Facebook Share on Twitter
 

 
 

 
 










Our Impact:

    Action Against Hunger provides lifesaving assistance and restores self-sufficiency to over 9 million people in 45 countries.  


3.5M

    3.5 million people were treated for malnutrition and illness in 2013.



 


3.5M

    3.5 million people accessed safe water and sanitation in 2013.




 


2M

    2 million people gained economic self-sufficiency in 2013. Learn more about our impact »



 















 





 








 








Our Mission

    Action Against Hunger | ACF International is a global humanitarian organization committed to ending world hunger.
France  |  UK  |  Spain  |  Canada  |  ItalyGermany 


About

ACF International
Experts
Partners
Financials
Employment
Contact
 


Media

Blog
Press
Media Mentions
Publications
Technical Surveys
Policies & Manuals
Evaluations
 


Hunger

Window of Opportunity
 


Emergencies

South Sudan
Syria
The Philippines
Donate
 






        Our teams are delivering tools and clearing snow as #SyrianRefugees in #Lebanon are hit by #winterstorms. http://t.co/WSuQaUVgCL 
 acfusa 3 hours ago   


 
 










Search form

Search 





 



 



© 2013 Action Against Hunger | ACF-USA
Contact | Privacy Policy | Tenders




Action Against Hunger | ACF-USA is a recognized 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization by the IRS.






 










 



