Millions need help in the Philippines — About Plan — Plan InternationalMillions need help in the Philippines — About Plan — Plan International
[skip to content]

Plan International
Sponsor a child
Media

Resources

Contact

Jobs

FAQ




Plan InternationalHome
About Plan
What we do
Where we work
What you can do



You are here:
Home »

About Plan »
              
           
      

Resources »
              
           
      

News »
              
           
      

          
              
              Millions need help in the Philippines
           
      




How we work


Finance


Who's who


History


Contact us


Resources

News


Blog


Media centre


Publications


Videos


Policy papers


Schools


Virtual village


FAQ



Annual review


Jobs






                
                 
              

Info


Millions need help in the Philippines




16 Nov - Military personnel helping to load vital aid supplies for distribution in Tacloban - one of the worst affected areas
More aid on its way to Tacloban - where thousands of people have been killed by Typhoon Haiyan
Lola, 77, being evacuated from Tacloban to Manila with her granddaughter, after her 80-year-old husband was swept away by the storm.
Plan staff member Frank Manfredi preparing relief goods for distribution
One of Plan’s emergency response team members carries 2 children to an evacuation centre in Kambal, Eastern Samar.
People clambering on the ruins of their homes in Tacloban - one of the areas worst hit by Typhoon Haiyan.
Vital Plan aid being unpacked by volunteers in Samar
Plan staff member supporting a family at an evacuation centre.
Children playing at a Plan-supported evacuation centre in Southern Leyte
Plan temporary shelters and jerry cans being used by residents in Eastern Samar.
Children carrying relief items through the devastation in Tacloban
Plan staff prepare emergency shelter kits to be distributed to affected families.
St. Redemtorist church in Tacloban is sheltering 323 families.
Children waiting in an evacuation centre.




One of the largest storms ever to make landfall has hit the the Philippines, killing thousands and affecting more than 13 million people.
Plan emergency teams are on the ground right now - helping families affected by Typhoon Haiyan, which struck communities with wind speeds of over 310 kmh (195 mph).
Please support the relief effort and make a donation now
Highest level of response
Plan International Chief  Executive Officer Nigel Chapman said: "Plan  has spent many years  successfully helping to build communities'  resilience to disasters and  emergencies in the Philippines - but the  sheer strength and impact of  this typhoon is simply unprecedented and  overwhelming. Many communities  are now in dire and urgent need.
"We have launched the highest possible level of reponse to this   tragedy and are committing many extra resources and staff to help those   affected get back on their feet as quickly as possible."
Bracing for the worst
Plan's country director in the Philippines, Carin van der Hor, said:
“The Philippines is living between disasters. We've seen floods, numerous typhoons and then an earthquake in Bohol. People who were still in tents were evacuated after Typhoon Haiyan struck, as their tent cities were flooded and because the winds were so dangerous.
“Due to communications being down, it’s still difficult to know the true scale of devastation caused by Typhoon Haiyan. We are bracing ourselves for the worst.
“Plan staff report dead bodies blocking the road to Tacloban. This means passing through the roads is proving difficult.
Children and remote areas priority
“Those living in remote areas remain on our priority list, as are children. Children are always badly affected by disasters like this; some will lose their lives, or lose parents, siblings and extended families. Everything that is familiar and safe is disrupted or destroyed, including homes, schooling and family livelihoods. Some of these children will witness things no child should have to see."
Water and shelter
Before Haiyan hit land, Plan positioned 4,000 water kits and 4,000 pieces of plastic sheeting for shelter so if roads become impassable items can be quickly distributed by the community. These will serve about 20,000 people. In addition, there are similar numbers of kits in reserve for further distributions.
Haiyan could be even more devastating than typhoon Bopha, which  lashed the Philippines in 2012, killing at least 1,146 people and doing  more than US$1 billion worth of damage.
All of Plan Philippines’ programme units, home to about 40,000 sponsored children, are likely to be affected by the storm.
Learn more about Plan's Typhoon Haiyan emergency response work
Help us deliver life-saving aid - make a donation






Share this page:

Facebook


del.icio.us


Digg


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


My Space



        Send to a friend
      







Latest news
Photostory: Aid brings safe water to Eastern Samar
Video: Typhoon Haiyan washes house away
In pictures: Typhoon Haiyan response



Press enquiries
Media - interested in this story? Call Angela Singh: +44 (0) 7739326164 or email angela.singh@plan-international.org









                
                 
              




© Copyright 2015 Plan


Sitemap


Accessibility


Terms and conditions


Privacy and Cookies


Child Protection





