UNICEF mobilizes to reach children and families affected by Hagupit
UNICEF mobilizes to reach children and families affected by Hagupit







































					26-Jan-2015 | 02:13 AM				






   


Home
About Us
TNAV
Weather
Special Feature

























Follow @interaksyon
















NATIONAL
WORLD
BUSINESS
SPORTS5
INFOTEK
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFESTYLE
OPINION
MOTORING
































TODAY'S HEADLINES




Govt forces, MILF rebels report casualties in rare clash
25-Jan-15, 7:06 PM | Agence France-Presse | With a PNA Report




Japan condemns IS execution, demands release of remaining hostage
25-Jan-15, 5:07 PM | Reuters




Modi, Obama announce nuclear breakthrough after talks
25-Jan-15, 8:42 PM | Agence France-Presse




115 YEARS AGO | Legazpi City commemorates 1900 battle against American invaders
25-Jan-15, 11:12 AM | Philippines News Agency




PLDT hiking capex in 2015
25-Jan-15, 9:57 PM | Darwin G. Amojelar, InterAksyon.com




Korean seized in Zamboanga Sibugay in apparent kidnapping for ransom
25-Jan-15, 6:43 PM | Jaime Sinapit, InterAksyon.com




















 

 National
UNICEF mobilizes to reach children and families affected by Hagupit

						By: InterAksyon.com
						December 9, 2014 5:09 AM					
 






			At the UNICEF warehouse in Palo, Leyte Province, UNICEF is dispatching lifesaving emergency supplies such as water kits, hygiene kits, collapsible water tanks, water purification tablets, oral rehydration salts and generators for health units to hardest hits municipalities of Dolores and Oras in Eastern Samar as Typhoon Hagupit bears down on the country.
		
 



 







Tweet




 

InterAksyon.comThe online news portal of TV5
MANILA, Philippines – As Typhoon Hagupit (local name: Ruby) wreaked havoc through the Philippines, UNICEF is acting quickly to support the Filipino Government’s response to the emergency, providing life-saving supplies and services for children and women in the areas hardest hit by cyclone-force winds and heavy rains. 
Latest Government estimates indicate more than a million people are affected, including over 400,000 children. Many of them are in evacuation sites.
Typhoon Hagupit is still on the move, bringing destructive winds, heavy rain, water surges and landslides. Its full impact is still not known.
“The Government’s swift evacuation response has saved many from injury and even death,” said Lotta Sylwander, UNICEF Philippines Representative.  “But Hagupit is still a serious threat, and with tens of thousands of children and their mothers in urgent need of emergency aid, UNICEF and partners are working around the clock to meet the many challenges.”  
UNICEF’s Tacloban office, established after Super Typhoon Haiyan (local name: Yolanda), activated its emergency response plan last week. Its 54 staff are on standby to deploy to affected areas to undertake expert assessments, to work with the government and partners to assist evacuees. They are currently loading supply trucks to pre-position essential supplies and equipment from local warehouses to affected areas in Samar and beyond.
With poor sanitation and unclean water a direct threat to children’s health, restoration of existing water sources will be a top priority in the critical days after the storm. UNICEF has supplies prepositioned in warehouses in Tacloban, Manila and Cotabato, including water kits, hygiene kits, water pumps, generators, water storage and treatment facilities.
Other emergency supplies include medical supplies, nutritional therapeutic food items to combat malnutrition, oral rehydration salts and tarpaulins power for at least 12,000 families.    
Typhoon Hagupit made landfall only 13 months after Super Typhoon Haiyan, which devastated parts of the Eastern Visayas.  UNICEF’s efforts will focus on helping children overcome the effects of anxiety and extreme fear, including through the provision of psychosocial assistance.
School tents as well as education materials will also be provided so that children forced to evacuate, or whose schools have been closed or damaged by the storm, can continue learning.
“Thankfully, the typhoon has proven far less devastating than Haiyan to date, but there are still almost a million people – many still recovering from Haiyan – who have been driven from their homes,” said Sylwander. “These people have made enormous progress in rebuilding their lives over the last 12 months, and they need our help to make sure these hard-won gains are not washed away by this new disaster.”
 









 


 







Tweet




 















 
 

 












OTHER NATIONAL STORIES 




EDSA rehab fine, but where's traffic plan? MMDA asks DPWH

TIME TO REBOOT | Expect improved SK system in reform bill – Bam

Jeepney fares reduced in 3 more regions

Govt forces, MILF rebels report casualties in rare clash

Korean seized in Zamboanga Sibugay in apparent kidnapping for ransom





BREAKING NEWS




Ebola mistakes should serve a lesson says WHO

Ukrainian port city divided after deadly rocket attack

Obama ramps up pressure on Russia after deadly Ukraine blitz

Six killed when Panama bus falls into ravine

13 dead in Egypt unrest on uprising anniversary: officials

Yemen crisis deepens but Obama vows Qaeda pursuit

Ten go on trial in France for 'exploiting' frail L'Oreal heiress

Panic and chaos as Boko Haram storms key Nigerian towns

EDSA rehab fine, but where's traffic plan? MMDA asks DPWH

Philippine Business Bank in talks with potential foreign investors

Israel book chain drops Charlie Hebdo in-store promo plan

Macay eyes first-half fundraiser for RC Cola business

Philippine stock market to take cue from fourth-quarter economic data

TIME TO REBOOT | Expect improved SK system in reform bill – Bam

PLDT hiking capex in 2015
 





 

 



	 
	



www.interaksyon.com



NATIONAL
WORLD
BUSINESS
SPORTS5
INFOTEK
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFESTYLE
OPINION
SPECIAL FEATURES


Copyright InterAksyon.com - All rights reserved.


 

Home
National
World
Business
Sports5

Basketball
Boxing
Football
Billiards
MMA
More Sports
The Fix
Photos


Infotek

Tech News
ICT Updates
Gadgets
Videos
Columns


Entertainment
Lifestyle

Arts & Culture
Fashion & Beauty
Wellness
Food
Shopping & Stepping out
Travel
Family & Faith
Youth
Home & Garden
Events
Videos


Opinion
Motoring

Motoring News
MotorSports
Showroom
Columns 

Special Feature
TNAV

 












