Plan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath — Where we work — Plan InternationalPlan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath — Where we work — Plan International
[skip to content]


Sponsor a child
Media

Resources

Contact

Jobs

FAQ




Plan InternationalPlan Philippines
Plan Asia
Plan Home



You are here:
Home »

Where we work »
              
           
      

Asia »
              
           
      

Philippines »
              
           
      

About Plan in Philippines »
              
           
      

News »
              
           
      

          
              
              Plan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath
           
      




About Plan in Philippines

Strategy


Who's who


Contact us


News



What we do 


Where we work


What you can do 






                
                 
              

Info


Plan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath




Plan trucks bring in relief items to Oras town in Eastern Samar
Water kits and hygiene kits ready for distribution in Oras
Remedios, 72 and lives on her own, stands in front of her totally damaged house in Oras
Plan gathers children in affected communities for games and storytelling activities
Psychosocial support is important for young survivors of the typhoon
Students in Mandaon, Masbate province inspect the damage in their school building
Plan staff and community members work together to prepare the tarpaulin sheets
Plan provided shelter kits for the damaged school in Mandaon
Tarpaulin sheets will be useful for the damaged school in Mandaon



13 December 2014: A week since Typhoon Hagupit made landfall in eastern Philippines, Plan International continues its emergency response in hardest-hit areas, where crucial needs in shelter, education, protection, water, hygiene and sanitation still remain.
Plan expects to extend its typhoon response for the next six months, covering 20,000 families or 100,000 individuals in the provinces of Western Samar, Northern Samar and Eastern Samar—areas where Plan has long-term presence through its child-centred community development programmes on the ground.
The response—with an initial funding requirement of $US3.5 million—will prioritise the needs of affected children and their communities for immediate relief, shelter, safe water, education assistance and psychosocial support. These are among the most-pressing needs that Plan has reported through rapid initial assessments done with the national and local government and humanitarian agency partners.
“In the aftermath of a big typhoon like this, we are very concerned about how children are coping. With them in mind, our response measures are designed to help these young survivors regain a sense of normalcy,” says Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin van der Hor.
“We want to ensure that affected children have access to clean water and hygiene facilities in their communities to prevent the spread of illnesses. We also want school to resume as soon possible, so we are looking into giving education assistance by providing school supplies and learning materials for students and setting up temporary learning spaces in heavily damaged schools.”
“As a child-centred organisation, we can’t emphasise enough the importance of psychosocial support for boys and girls who live through storm after storm every year,” van der Hor adds. “We believe that a holistic response should also attend to the emotional well-being and protection of affected children.”
This week, Plan has distributed hygiene kits, water kits and shelter kits that will benefit thousands in Eastern Samar and Masbate provinces.
As of Wednesday evening Philippine time, Hagupit (locally know as Ruby) has exited the country, leaving in its wake 2.9 million affected people (694,300 families), an official death toll of 19, more than 47,000 houses damaged and an estimated US$28 million (1.3 billion pesos) in total damages and losses in agriculture and infrastructure, according to latest government data.
For the past few days, more than half of the evacuees have returned to their homes, while some 788,500 people still remain in evacuation sites.
For more information about Plan’s work in the Philippines, including previous disaster responses, go to http://plan-international.org/philippines
Notes for editors:
 
Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin Van der Hor and Emergency Response Manager Richard Sandison are available for interview by mobile phone. Deputy Country Director for Programs Marco Savio is also available for interviews in French and Italian. To arrange interviews and for all other media inquiries, please call Cynthia Arce, Communication Manager, Mobile: +63(0)917 832 5723, or Chris Sibugon, Communication Officer, Mobile +63 (0) 9175145738.
Plan International is one of the Philippines' longest-serving humanitarian and development INGOs, with a special focus on helping marginalised children across the country to access their rights to health, education, livelihoods, disaster risk management and protection.
Plan in the Philippines has also responded to numerous emergencies across the disaster-prone country by providing food, healthcare, clean drinking water and sanitation, shelter, temporary schooling and psychosocial support. Most recently, Plan has responded to the 2013 Typhoon Haiyan which killed more than 6,200 people and affected more than 14 million. Plan also responded to the 2013 Bohol earthquake, 2012 Typhoon Bopha, 2011 Typhoon Sendong and the ongoing conflict in Mindanao.






Share this page:

Facebook


del.icio.us


Digg


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


My Space



        Send to a friend
      






Support our work
Sponsor a childMake a donation


Follow us





Youth Reporter Project



Latest items


Plan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath


Typhoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas




Contact Plan
Plan Philippines4th Bloomingdale BuildingNo. 205 Salcedo StreetLegaspi Village, Makati CityPhilippinesTel: (+632) 813 0030 up to 33
 

     






                
                 
              




© Copyright 2015 Plan


Sitemap


Accessibility


Terms and conditions


Privacy and Cookies


Child Protection





