At least 27 dead, says Red Cross, as Hagupit weakens into a tropical depression
At least 27 dead, says Red Cross, as Hagupit weakens into a tropical depression







































					26-Jan-2015 | 02:13 AM				






   


Home
About Us
TNAV
Weather
Special Feature

























Follow @interaksyon
















NATIONAL
WORLD
BUSINESS
SPORTS5
INFOTEK
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFESTYLE
OPINION
MOTORING
































TODAY'S HEADLINES




Govt forces, MILF rebels report casualties in rare clash
25-Jan-15, 7:06 PM | Agence France-Presse | With a PNA Report




Japan condemns IS execution, demands release of remaining hostage
25-Jan-15, 5:07 PM | Reuters




Modi, Obama announce nuclear breakthrough after talks
25-Jan-15, 8:42 PM | Agence France-Presse




115 YEARS AGO | Legazpi City commemorates 1900 battle against American invaders
25-Jan-15, 11:12 AM | Philippines News Agency




PLDT hiking capex in 2015
25-Jan-15, 9:57 PM | Darwin G. Amojelar, InterAksyon.com




Korean seized in Zamboanga Sibugay in apparent kidnapping for ransom
25-Jan-15, 6:43 PM | Jaime Sinapit, InterAksyon.com




















 

 National
At least 27 dead, says Red Cross, as Hagupit weakens into a tropical depression

						By: Tricia Aquino and Thom Andrade, InterAksyon.com | Agence France-Presse | Reuters
						December 9, 2014 6:42 AM					
 






			A sign appealing for help hangs among felled trees and battered houses in Barangay Mantang, Taft, Eastern Samar a day after typhoon 'Hagupit' slammed into the province. (photo by Vincent Go, AFP)
		
 



 







Tweet




 

InterAksyon.comThe online news portal of TV5
MANILA, Philippines -- (UPDATE 4 - 11:38 a.m.) Hagupit (local name: Ruby) has further weakened into a tropical depression after leaving at least 27 persons dead as it smashed through the country over the weekend, according to an updated Red Cross toll on Tuesday.
The storm was expected to make landfall over Lubang Island in Occidental Mindoro early Tuesday morning after it brushed past Metro Manila without causing major damage.
Philippine Red Cross chairman Richard Gordon told AFP on Tuesday the  number of people confirmed killed so far was 27, although he expected  that number to rise with full assessments from Samar and other areas yet  to be done.
The 27 people reported killed died in Iloilo province and on Samar island, where Hagupit initially made landfall as a typhoon on the weekend with winds of 210 kilometers per hour, including 12 residents in Borongan town in Eastern Samar who were swept away by raging waters and flash floods, Gordon said, citing initial reports from his field staff.
However, Alex Pama, executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council, maintained that their official count stood at three deaths, although he confirmed eight more fatalities that, he stressed, still needed to be "validated."
He identified the three fatalities on the NDRRMC list as Jimmy Cardente, 14, of Cebu, who was electrocuted; two-month-old Princess Abelgas, of Calbayog, Samar, who was struck by a fallen tree; and Sonny Recto, of La Naval, Biliran, who was killed by flying debris.
Pama also said Hagupit had affected "a total of 456,386 families or 2,086,562" individuals. Of these, 371,846 families, or 1,699,041 persons, were accommodated in evacuation center "ngunit ang sa mga ulat sa atin ang iba po sa mga 'to ay unti-unti na pong babalik sa kanilang mga bahay sa araw na ito (although reports reaching us are that some of them will be returning to their homes today)."
He said 45 other persons were injured.
Nearly 13,000 houses were crushed and more than 22,300 were partially damaged in Eastern Samar province, where Hagupit first hit land as a category 3 typhoon on Saturday, local officials said.
"Access is very difficult, roads are spotty. There are landslides, some are one-lane roads. In the inner barangays, many of them are washed out by flash floods," Gordon told Reuters.
"A detailed assessment is now ongoing ... It's a long trek (to the villages), it's like Yolanda all over again," Gordon said.
Bank employee Arnalyn Bula told Reuters how howling winds had pounded the walls of her aunt's two-story concrete home in Dolores town in Eastern Samar, where her family sought shelter.
"Our kitchen was wrecked. Around us, our neighbors' homes were flattened like folded paper," said Bula, 27.
The privately run National Grid Corp, which operates the country's main transmission lines, said nearly 2 million homes across central Philippines and southern Luzon remain without power.
Despite the toll and damage, there is relief that Hagupit has not brought destruction on the scale of Yolanda, which totally or partially damaged more than one million houses in the same areas of the central Philippines.
Learning lessons from Yolanda, which left more than 7,000 dead or missing, authorities had launched a massive evacuation operation days ahead of the storm, emptying whole towns and villages in coastal and landslide prone areas.
Hagupit weakened while moving slowly west, passing close to Metro Manila Monday night and Tuesday morning without dumping forecast heavy rain.
Tens of thousands of people, mostly informal settlers who live in shanty communities along the coast and riverbanks, had spent the night in evacuation centers to wait out the storm.
They returned to their homes Tuesday in drizzly weather after only moderate rain and no major flooding throughout the night.
Office and government workers, most of whom had been ordered to stay at home on Monday, returned to work and the stock market resumed operations.
Metro Manila, Bataan, Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Oriental Mindoro, and Occidental Mindoro -- including Lubang Island -- are under public storm signal no. 1, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration said.
Areas within 300 kilometers of Hagupit could experience rainfall of five to 15 millimeters per hour, which is within the moderate to heavy range.  Fisherfolk and those using small sea craft in Luzon should still not venture out into the seaboards because Hagupit, with the northeast monsoon, is expected to cause rough to very rough sea conditions.
Hagupit now packs maximum winds of 60 kilometers per hour and is forecast to move west at 13 kilometers per hour.
It is still expected to exit the Philippine Area of Responsibility on Wednesday evening.









 


 







Tweet




 



Related Stories:

» Large Los Angeles fire consumes building, shuts freeways» Mexico says evidence proves missing students were incinerated» NGCP completes power restoration in Quezon and Sorsogon• HOLIDAY CHEER | Samar folk turn to music, food to remind selves there's hope despite disaster• Yolanda survivors spend second Xmas in ruins• Damage to NGCP lines delaying full power restoration in Northern Samar - utility• Govt to give P10K each to families of 18 Hagupit fatalities as damage climbs to P3.3B• Cost of assistance for Hagupit victims exceeds P106 million: DSWD• 18 killed, 916 hurt in Hagupit - NDRRMC• EU sends humanitarian team to help in Hagupit assessment• VIDEO | State of calamity declared in Laguna due to Hagupit• 9 LANG, HINDI 12 | E. Samar disaster council rectifies 'Hagupit' death toll report• Aid rushed to displaced Hagupit survivors

 












 
 

 












RELATED ARTICLES




Large Los Angeles fire consumes building, shuts freeways

Mexico says evidence proves missing students were incinerated

NGCP completes power restoration in Quezon and Sorsogon

HOLIDAY CHEER | Samar folk turn to music, food to remind selves there's hope despite disaster

Yolanda survivors spend second Xmas in ruins

Damage to NGCP lines delaying full power restoration in Northern Samar - utility

Govt to give P10K each to families of 18 Hagupit fatalities as damage climbs to P3.3B

Cost of assistance for Hagupit victims exceeds P106 million: DSWD

18 killed, 916 hurt in Hagupit - NDRRMC

EU sends humanitarian team to help in Hagupit assessment

VIDEO | State of calamity declared in Laguna due to Hagupit

9 LANG, HINDI 12 | E. Samar disaster council rectifies 'Hagupit' death toll report

Aid rushed to displaced Hagupit survivors
 




OTHER NATIONAL STORIES 




EDSA rehab fine, but where's traffic plan? MMDA asks DPWH

TIME TO REBOOT | Expect improved SK system in reform bill – Bam

Jeepney fares reduced in 3 more regions

Govt forces, MILF rebels report casualties in rare clash

Korean seized in Zamboanga Sibugay in apparent kidnapping for ransom





BREAKING NEWS




Ebola mistakes should serve a lesson says WHO

Ukrainian port city divided after deadly rocket attack

Obama ramps up pressure on Russia after deadly Ukraine blitz

Six killed when Panama bus falls into ravine

13 dead in Egypt unrest on uprising anniversary: officials

Yemen crisis deepens but Obama vows Qaeda pursuit

Ten go on trial in France for 'exploiting' frail L'Oreal heiress

Panic and chaos as Boko Haram storms key Nigerian towns

EDSA rehab fine, but where's traffic plan? MMDA asks DPWH

Philippine Business Bank in talks with potential foreign investors

Israel book chain drops Charlie Hebdo in-store promo plan

Macay eyes first-half fundraiser for RC Cola business

Philippine stock market to take cue from fourth-quarter economic data

TIME TO REBOOT | Expect improved SK system in reform bill – Bam

PLDT hiking capex in 2015
 





 

 



	 
	



www.interaksyon.com



NATIONAL
WORLD
BUSINESS
SPORTS5
INFOTEK
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFESTYLE
OPINION
SPECIAL FEATURES


Copyright InterAksyon.com - All rights reserved.


 

Home
National
World
Business
Sports5

Basketball
Boxing
Football
Billiards
MMA
More Sports
The Fix
Photos


Infotek

Tech News
ICT Updates
Gadgets
Videos
Columns


Entertainment
Lifestyle

Arts & Culture
Fashion & Beauty
Wellness
Food
Shopping & Stepping out
Travel
Family & Faith
Youth
Home & Garden
Events
Videos


Opinion
Motoring

Motoring News
MotorSports
Showroom
Columns 

Special Feature
TNAV

 












