Working towards recovery after Typhoon Haiyan — Where we work — Plan InternationalWorking towards recovery after Typhoon Haiyan — Where we work — Plan International
[skip to content]


Sponsor a child
Media

Resources

Contact

Jobs

FAQ




Plan InternationalPlan Philippines
Plan Asia
Plan Home



You are here:
Home »

Where we work »
              
           
      

Asia »
              
           
      

Philippines »
              
           
      

What we do  »
              
           
      

Our successes »
              
           
      

          
              
              Working towards recovery after Typhoon Haiyan
           
      




About Plan in Philippines


What we do 

Our successes


Typhoon Haiyan response


The Youth Reporter Project



Where we work


What you can do 






                
                 
              

Info


Working towards recovery after Typhoon Haiyan

The project is bringing community members together.

April 2014: Decked out in a hardhat and sporting well-worn work gloves, 37-year-old Melita Samong welcomes all to the work site with a warm smile. Melita and her team have been working for the past 12 days to rehabilitate a children’s school in Lawaan municipality, Eastern Samar, that was damaged when Typhoon Haiyan ripped through the Philippines last November. Their first pay day is 3 days away.
Working together
The men and women have been divided into 2 teams: one working to cart away debris and the other clearing drainage ditches. Mother-of-4 Melita has been chosen by her all-woman crew as the leader and representative.
Melita is also a barangay (village) official and her husband works for the military. The 2 of them ran a convenience store – known as a sari-sari store – in their barangay that helped them pay the bills. But that all changed the day Typhoon Haiyan swept through their community, leaving only turmoil in its wake. Now Melita and her husband look to make ends meet from day to day.
Difficult memories
Talking about her house and store, Melita struggles to hold back the tears. “Our house was totally damaged, we were unable to save anything,” she says
Some much-needed relief has come in the form of this temporary work opportunity. As a beneficiary of Plan International’s Cash for Work project, Melita will be paid for her services twice a month.
So far more than 5,000 Cash for Work beneficiaries have been selected in Eastern and Western Samar. The project, which is also being implemented in Leyte, will run for up to a year and benefit about 20,000 individuals in the first 6 months.
“The money that we get will help us with our expenses,” adds Melita.
When asked what she plans to do with the cash, Melita replies that she will buy wood to rebuild her house. For now Melita and her family make do with a tarpaulin sheet for a roof in the only inhabitable room of their home.
Melita also feels that the work she is doing is important for the children of her community.
“There is so much debris left behind after the storm. Our work here can prevent children from getting hurt because of it.”
Find out more about Plan's Typhoon Haiyan response






Share this page:

Facebook


del.icio.us


Digg


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


My Space



        Send to a friend
      






Support our work
Sponsor a childMake a donation


Follow us





Youth Reporter Project



Latest items


Plan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath


Typhoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas




Contact Plan
Plan Philippines4th Bloomingdale BuildingNo. 205 Salcedo StreetLegaspi Village, Makati CityPhilippinesTel: (+632) 813 0030 up to 33
 

     






                
                 
              




© Copyright 2015 Plan


Sitemap


Accessibility


Terms and conditions


Privacy and Cookies


Child Protection





