AmeriCares: From our Haiyan Response Team: Putting Health First in a Time of Disaster 
AmeriCares: From our Haiyan Response Team: Putting Health First in a Time of Disaster












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
From our Haiyan Response Team: Putting Health First in a Time of Disaster









Tweet










														  
														November 23, 2013


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                











The AmeriCares Emergency Response Team, along with NYCMedics, were transported to the island of Homonhon to treat the small village of Habag in the storm ravaged Philippines. Photo by Matthew McDermott







Our Typhoon Haiyan response team is working nonstop with partners to meet the immediate health needs of survivors in the hardest-hit areas.
"There is so much need," said Kate Dischino, emergency response manager. "We are in a strong position to move the right things to the right place at the right time, and that's exactly what people in the Philippines need right now.  Under these extreme logistical challenges, we have been moving shipments and staff by air, sea and truck, so we've been able to get equipment and supplies into some of the most hard to reach, devastated areas.”
The latest update from the team:
Samar  






 
		AmeriCares Relief Worker Kate surveys medical needs in Samar
	



Kate traveled with our partner, the Order of Malta to hard-hit villages in Samar including San Antonio, where roughly 90 percent of the community was destroyed.
“Families have started pulling their lives together by salvaging whatever materials they can find to create shelter,” explained Kate. “The local health center was severely damaged and there is no form of basic medicines. Not having a simple bandage is pretty common in these most devastated areas, and medical facilities that are still operational are too far away.”
We’ve provided funding for a distribution of food and relief items in Samar, and supplied NYC Medics with medical aid to deliver emergency medical care to survivors in the devastated San Antonio community.
Leyte
Kate also traveled to Tacloban, assessing needs in evacuation centers and at Divine Word Hospital -- one of few facilities still operating in the shattered city.
“The hospital is an organized chaos of brave health care professionals serving survivors in urgent need of care,” said Kate. “People were seeking consultation for wound care, respiratory infections, fever, and headaches.”
The hospital received pre-positioned medical aid sent by our partner to the hospital which includes antibiotics and chronic care medications to help restock its dwindling supplies. Our team has also provided medicines and supplies to the Tacloban Department of Health.
Cebu  






 
		AmeriCares Relief Worker Karl, in Cebu
	



Karl Erdman, our team lead in Cebu, is working with response partners to restock hospitals and clinics, coordinate aid deliveries to communities where access to health care has been severely hampered, and supply medical professionals working in disaster zones with crucial aid.  A supply of medicines was procured and donated to Brig. General Benito Ebuen Air Base Hospital, and we are supporting a distribution of relief supplies to families in evacuation centers by our partner Hope Worldwide.
Eastern Samar  
In hard hit Guiuan, Eastern Samar, our team provided a truckload of medicines and supplies to support a health camp run by NYC Medics, who treated 150-200 patients each day.
“One 6-year-old boy had asthma complicated by pneumonia. He got his asthma meds refilled, and antibiotics for his pneumonia,” said Alex Ostaciewicz, a member of our team who was stationed with NYC Medics.
The medics also traveled by helicopter to the remote rural island of Homonhon, providing health access in places that were inaccessible. “We were the first people to come to the community since the typhoon struck,” Alex explained.  “The team treated more than 100 patients, including a diabetic woman who was on the verge of losing her foot from a cut she got during the storm.”  See the video.






 
		Brian Hoyer assesses needs with our response partners.
	



Panay
Brian Hoyer conducted a joint needs assessment in Roxas, Capiz province on Panay Island with long-time partner International Organization for Migration (IOM) providing relief items to survivors and medical aid to clinics, including Pontevedra rural health clinic, where a woman named Estelita received the antibiotics she needed to recover from a severe infection.  Read her story.



Read More
											  
											Donate Now


















Philippines Disaster Relief Fund
Please help deliver lifesaving aid to families suffering from Super Typhoon Haiyan. Your gift will be restricted to support AmeriCares disaster response in the Philippines.  
Donate Now




Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

