AmeriCares: Haiyan Field Report: Dignity and Safety for Survivors  
AmeriCares: Haiyan Field Report: Dignity and Safety for Survivors 












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Haiyan Field Report: Dignity and Safety for Survivors 









Tweet













														  
														January 21, 2014


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                















Brian Hoyer, director of AmeriCares post-emergency programs and a member of our Haiyan response team, worked with our partner the International Organization for Migration (IOM) on Panay Island in the Philippines in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan to help meet the immediate needs of survivors. 
“On our first day on the ground, we discovered an important area of need beyond basic survival and acute medical concerns. Because the evacuation centers were predominantly filled with women and children while other family members worked to rebuild some kind of structure where their home once stood,” explained Brian, “every woman we spoke to reported that, especially in the context of communal living, they did not have basic items related to hygiene and privacy.”
The team quickly integrated distribution of dignity kits into the health programming we had launched through the local health system.  We procured, assembled and delivered 100 dignity kits to health centers who had already identified indigent patients and other vulnerable women for distribution. The kits were made up of local materials including:

cloth bag
sarong for privacy when changing
two hand towels
hand sanitizer
laundry soap
small wash basin
antibacterial personal soap

Minor injuries related to home reconstruction were another health concern identified early in our response.  “For the majority of the displaced in Capiz Province of Panay Island, families had immediately returned to their property or sent male family members to begin construction of some type of shelter,” said Hoyer. “Personal protective gear was essential to prevent further injuries and resulting infections.  One local health official explained that after the passing of the storm a key concern was an outbreak of minor injuries resulting from the reconstruction. We addressed this preventative measure in our health system based response in the region.”  






 
		AmeriCares assembled 100 safety kits which were delivered to help survivors in hard-hit areas Photo courtesy of Blue Motus




To help prevent these injuries AmeriCares assembled 100 safety kits which were delivered to help survivors in hard-hit areas. Each kit included:

work gloves
protective eye goggles
safety helmets
antibacterial soap

Brian continued to work on our long-term response strategy together with our partner, IOM, establishing a recovery project which includes the restoration and expansion of primary health care services in Capiz province. This project has since served as one model for other affected areas, and AmeriCares is now supporting similar projects in other regions of the disaster affected area.



Read More
											  
											Donate Now
















Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

