AmeriCares: Repairing and Rebuilding Health Centers in the Philippines 
AmeriCares: Repairing and Rebuilding Health Centers in the Philippines












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Repairing and Rebuilding Health Centers in the Philippines
Work on 67 community health centers underway, serving 1.3 million survivors









Tweet










														  
														May 27, 2014


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                











 Photo by Matthew McDermott







Typhoon Haiyan damaged or destroyed an estimated 2,000 health facilities, many on remote, hard-to reach islands in the Philippines. Because continuity of health care is crucial to save lives and prevent the spread of disease, our team coordinated with the government and health partners to support access to health services in the immediate aftermath. We also developed a long-term plan to restore health services for more than 1.3 million people in the hardest-hit rural areas.
In collaboration with the Philippines Department of Health and local partners, we are repairing 67 community health centers. Half of these facilities had suffered extensive dam­age and were closed, while the others were partially operational. We are providing medical equipment, replacing roofs and windows, reconnect­ing water and power and, when possible, building in measures to mitigate damage in future disasters. This work will restore health services for an estimated 1.3 million people in Capiz, Leyte and Cebu provinces. 
67 health centers:
Thank you AmeriCares for coming to this remote site and rehabilitating our barangay health center. Mrs. Vilmasantillan, health worker at a community health station in Kampingganon, Bantayan, Region 7



53 community health centers
Eight rural health centers
Six health centers (including two hospitals) in urban areas

Work on five clinics has already been completed, and many more are well underway.  For residents and health workers living on these remote islands, the clinic restoration work makes a crucial difference.  “Thank you AmeriCares for coming to this remote site and rehabilitating our barangay health center,” said Mrs. Vilmasantillan, a health worker at a village health station in Kampingganon, Bantayan, Region 7. “Members of our community don’t have enough [money] to pay for transport to a higher level [health] facility. Rehabilitation of this facility will be a great financial help for them. As a health worker, I will have a better environment to work.”





































Read More
											  
											Donate Now
















Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

