Map Areas Affected by Super Typhoon Hagupit, Typhoon Hagupit Map and Updates | World News
Map Areas Affected by Super Typhoon Hagupit, Typhoon Hagupit Map and Updates | World News









Maps of WorldCurrent, Credible, Consistent












World Map

North America Map

South America Map

Europe Map

Asia Map

Africa Map

Australia Map

USA Map

Buy Maps








Get Custom Mapping Quote
            +1 408 416 3459 | sales@mapsofworld.com
          



Search


















 


World Map  /                 World News / Super Typhoon Hagupit (RUBY) Map and Updates            

 














What's New?






News Archive


Daily News and Events

World News
Business News
Technology News
Sports News
Entertainment News
Europe News



Other News

Location Map of Australia where asylum seekers are on hunger strike   Location Map of  Boko Haram Attacks in Cameroon  Map of Areas Affected by Heavy Rains and Floods in Bolivia  Map of Florida locating shooting at the Melbourne Square Mall  Map of China locating Boat accident in Jiangsu  


World Maps

World Political Map
World Physical Map
World Continent Map
World Lat Long Map
World Map for Kids
World Thematic Maps



North America Map

US Map
Mexico Map
Canada Map
USA Map
Costa Rica Map



South America Map

Brazil Map
Argentina Map
Colombia Map
Peru Map



Europe Map

Germany Map
Italy Map
France Map



Asia Map

China Map
India Map
Japan Map



Australia and Oceania Map

Australia Map
New Zealand Map
Fiji Map



Africa Map

South Africa Map
Egypt Map
Nigeria Map



Cities Maps

London Map
Chicago Map
Paris Map
US Cities
New York City Guide
Washington D.C. Guide
Rome City Guide



USA States Map


Location Maps of World


World Atlas


World Flags















Super Typhoon Hagupit (RUBY) Map and Updates

 Map of Areas Affected by Typhoon Hagupit / RUBY
Map showing Areas Affected by Typhoon Hagupit / RUBY in Philippines.
 
Path Map of Super Typhoon Hagupit 
Map showing Expected Path of Super Typhoon Hagupit at 8th Dec 14
Typhoon Hagupit has weakened as it continues to slowly sweep across the Philippines, causing some damage.
Typhoon Hagupit Path Map as on Dec 6, 2014
Map showing Expected Path of Super Typhoon Hagupit at 6th Dec 14
 
Super Typhoon Hagupit (RUBY) News and Updates:
3:32 am ET, Dec 8, 2014 – Hagupit leaves three dead
Around a million people have fled to safer places as typhoon Hagupit continues to wreak havoc in Philippines. According to media reports, at least three people have been killed by the storm which is threatening many areas with heavy rains and flooding. In Tacloban roofs were ripped apart and streets were flooded. However, Hagupit has weakened and continues to move slowly across Philippines. As per government forecaster Pagasa, the storm was packing maximum winds of 140 km/h.
 6:30 am ET, Dec 7, 2014 - Typhoon RUBY has made landfall in Dolores, Eastern Samar and its center was located at 140km East Southeast of Catarman, Northern Samar .
The U.S. military’s Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) estimated Hagupit’s top winds were 125 mph, the equivalent of a Category 3 hurricane.
Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Slowly Moves Through the Philippines; Dangerous Flooding Continues.
Philippines braces up for typhoon Hagupit
Dec 7, 2014, 8.55 GMT:Typhoon Hagupit threatens flooding and landslide misery. A typhoon lashes the Philippines with torrential rain, threatening the country with a huge storm surge, intense flooding and landslides.
Dec 7, 2014:Typhoon 22w (Hagupit), located approximately 270 nm southeast of manila, philippines, has tracked westward at 07 knots over the past six hours.
04:36 AM EST, Dec 6, 2014 -As typhoon Hagupit threatens to hit Philippines, thousands of people have been evacuated to safer places. According to reports, the residents of Samar Islands were experiencing outages and heavy winds and rains on Saturday as the typhoon headed towards the eastern provinces of the country. Though the typhoon has weakened to category 3, it could still result in large-scale destruction. The typhoon is expecting to hit Samar between 8 pm and 10 pm.
Super Typhoon Hagupit approaches Philippines: Over half a million residents escape storm surge
01:36 AM EST, Dec 6, 2014 - Over half a million population of the Philippines have fled from a super typhoon, as rain lashed the central provinces of the country, bringing life-threatening winds, flash floods, and massive storm surges, according to media reports.
Hagupit – locally known as Typhoon Ruby – so far is considered the most powerful storm this year and is likely to cause landfall Saturday evening or Sunday morning over the regions of eastern and northern Samar.
With sustained winds of 195 kilometers per hour, along with the gusts speed of up to 230 kph, the typhoon has caused a major devastation to the nation’s infrastructure, schools, hospitals, and public services, leading to an estimated loss of $12 billion. WBASH061214 
Philippines gears up for typhoon Hagupit
7:16 AM EST, Dec 5, 2014 - Hagupit, which will hit Philippines over the weekend, will affect more than 30 million people. According to reports, wind gusts over 240 kph are expected near landfall in eastern Visayas. The city of Tacloban, which was ravaged by Haiyan a year ago, is at risk of being threatened by typhoon Hagupit. PAGASA, the weather agency of Philippines, has issued storm alerts for 34 geographic areas. These include southeastern portions of Luzon, the Visayas, and northeastern parts of Mindanao. Though Hagupit has weakened it still remains a threat for the Philippines. WBPB51214
Map showing Expected Path of Super Typhoon Hagupit
Philippines braces for typhoon Hagupit
As the threat of typhoon Hagupit looms large over Philippines many flights and ships have been grounded. According to media reports, Hagupit is expected to make a landfall on Saturday. The Philippine Atmospheric Geophysical Astronomical Services Administration has reported that the typhoon has gained in strength on its way to the central part of Philippines. The area was ravaged last year by super typhoon Haiyan, which killed more than 6,300 people. WBPB51214
Typhoon Hagupit threatens Philippines
After being ravaged by Super Typhoon Haiyan last year, Philippines is now facing threat from Typhoon Hagupit. The storm, which is approaching Philippines from the Western Pacific Ocean, has been downgraded from super typhoon to typhoon. However, the storm is still packing strong winds. Though the path of the storm is still not clear, however forecasts say that it may take a similar path to Haiyan. Hagupit might hit the central region around Tacloban over the weekend. 
Hagupit to become super Typhoon in 48 hours
Hagupit is all set to become a super Typhoon in the next 48 hours, according to the Joint Typhoon Warning Center of the US Navy. The center has said that it will reach super typhoon status due to favorable sea surface temperatures coupled with favorable upper-level conditions. According to reports, on Wednesday morning the storm was packing winds of 166 kph, which will reach 240 kph by 5 December. WBPB31214
Path map of  Super Typhoon Hagupit- 3rd Dec 14
Map showing the Path of Hagupit super Typhoon
 Related Links
Super Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) just 13 months ago.
 

 







Looking for Expert Cartography / GIS Services?
Contact - Parminder Singh (+91- 9910492371 IST)



For all Mapping Needs and Business Queries
Contact - Antoine Maddox (+1 408 637 0064 PST)










Countries of the World


UK Map
Scotland Map
Canada Map
Germany Map
Italy Map
France Map
Russia Map
Spain Map
Mexico Map
Australia Map






Brazil Map
China Map
India Map
Japan Map
South Africa Map
Singapore Map
New Zealand Map
Turkey Map
Ukraine Map
Argentina Map
Indonesia Map
Islamic State Map





City Maps


Washington DC Map
Los Angeles Map
London Map
Chicago Map
Paris Map
NYC Map
Glasgow City Map
Sydney Map
Rome Map
Tokyo Map
Delhi Map




All About Maps


Earth Map
Continents of the World
World Political Map
Blank World Map
World Atlas
World Map in Various Languages
World Physical Map
World News
Map Games
Custom Maps




Thematic Maps


Travel Information
7 Wonders of the World
Honeymoon Destinations
US National Parks
World Top Ten
Earthquake Maps
Oceans Map
Mineral Maps
Location Maps
Weather Map






Mobile Applications
World Atlas
Travel Maps
Rail Maps
Road Maps
River Maps
Air Routes Map
History Maps
Outline Maps
World Weather Chart
World Time Zone Map
Wall Maps
Ebola Outbreak Map




Current Events in 2015


2015 Holiday Calendar
Elections Calendar 2015
Major Sporting Events 2015
Australian Open 2015 Schedule and Venue Map
Cricket World Cup 2015 Schedule
















Utilities


International Airports
Flight Schedule
RoutePlanner
US Zip Codes




Weltkarte


Kontinentkarten
Europakarte
Deutschlandkarte
Karte Schweiz




Country Information


Lat Long Maps
Flags of the World
Countries and Capitals
Embassy Finder






Cartography 
GIS Services
Tsunami
Hurricane
Map Games










Facebook



Twitter



Blog



RSS




Subscribe to Our Weekly Newsletter

 









Free Maps |
	  Infographics | 
      Around the World | 
      About Us | 
	  Media Kit 2014 | 
	  Advertise With Us | 
	  Feedback | 
	  Sitemap | 
	  Privacy Policy |
	  Copyright

 © Compare Infobase Ltd.
































