In pictures: Typhoon Haiyan recovery  — About Plan — Plan InternationalIn pictures: Typhoon Haiyan recovery  — About Plan — Plan International
[skip to content]

Plan International
Sponsor a child
Media

Resources

Contact

Jobs

FAQ




Plan InternationalHome
About Plan
What we do
Where we work
What you can do



You are here:
Home »

About Plan »
              
           
      

Resources »
              
           
      

News »
              
           
      

          
              
              In pictures: Typhoon Haiyan recovery 
           
      




How we work


Finance


Who's who


History


Contact us


Resources

News


Blog


Media centre


Publications


Videos


Policy papers


Schools


Virtual village


FAQ



Annual review


Jobs






                
                 
              

Info


In pictures: Typhoon Haiyan recovery 

A year has passed since Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines on 8 November 2013, devastating the lives of millions.
Plan International has worked in the country for over 50 years, and was at the forefront of the emergency response. Since the typhoon, we have been helping children and their communities to build back better and stronger.
These photos follow some of the children of the Philippines in the year since Haiyan.

Tanauan, December 2013: ”When we heard the warning my mother said: ‘Brace yourself, a typhoon is coming’,” says 11-year-old Jednel.
“We ran onto the roof of the house of our neighbour. We were so terribly scared and cold in the rain and the wind. The lips of my little brother became black from the cold, and we thought he was going to die. But he survived. Afterwards there were lots of dead people on the street. It was so sad. Everyone cried. One of my friends died.”

San Antonio, December 2013: A girl walks around in what is left of her neighbourhood in West Samar. Children are particularly vulnerable in disasters. There is a higher risk of children having accidents, illnesses or being exposed to violence or trafficking.
After the typhoon, Plan worked to provide safe and supportive child-friendly spaces for 21,000 children where they could play, learn and get emotional support.

San Antonio, December 2013: “I study administration at college in Tacloban. I usually take the ferry from here to town. But now everything has been stalled. I long for school to start again,” says Myrish.
During the day she helps her father, José, to clear debris around the ruins of the family house. In San Antonio, the majority of houses were crushed by the storm surge. Many people live in evacuation centres and are in need of food, water, and shelter.
From the earliest days of the response, Plan worked around the clock to get emergency food supplies to more than 1.5 million typhoon-affected people.

Tacloban, May 2014: Children on summer holiday participate in a Catholic procession to honour the Virgin Mary.
Maintaining traditions during times of disaster can play a role to regain a sense of everyday life and normality.

Tanauan, May 2014: "This is my favourite place. There is a sense of freedom here, where my family can live and be happy and proud. After the typhoon we were not allowed to play outside because of all the dangerous waste. But now we can play on the beach again. We play "Tumbalata", a game where 2 teams compete by hitting soda bottles with their flip-flops in the sand", says Jednel.
After 6 months, most of the rubble has been cleared by hand by community members. Plan provided paid work in the Philippines that benefitted more than 61,000 people as part of the recovery process.
Tacloban, May 2014: Bernadeth lives with her mother and 5 siblings in one of the worst hit areas in Tacloban. The family has been provided with a new house through a Plan project where the community learns to build houses in a more secure way.
Plan has assisted 195,000 people whose homes were damaged or destroyed with temporary shelter or support to rebuild their homes.
Tanauan, September 2014: Schools were washed away by the surge that followed Typhoon Haiyan. Jednel and other children in his community have had lessons in tents since January.
Plan has supported more than 44,000 children to return to school, through back to school kits, rebuilding classrooms, training teachers and supplying school equipment.
"Many children still get very scared when there is a storm and start to cry. It brings back the memories from Haiyan,” says Marlon C Tangpuz, School Principal.

Tanauan, September 2014: It’s Saturday morning in this coastal community. Here, the sea has always played a crucial role. Besides the vital fish, the sea has also been a playground for children.
Typoon Haiyan changed all of this. When the storm surge hit, boats and dead bodies floated ashore, fishing and playing stopped. Only after 10 months were children - like Jednel and his friends above - allowed to play in the sea again.
Plan has raised US$61 million to help 1.3 million Filipinos affected by Typhoon Haiyan to rebuild their lives. We now need $9.5 million to complete our recovery work.
Please support the recovery - donate to the Haiyan appeal
Photo credits: Plan International / Pieter ten Hoopen
*Plan is not responsible for the content on external websites.






Share this page:

Facebook


del.icio.us


Digg


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


My Space



        Send to a friend
      







Related pictures
View more Plan Haiyan recovery pictures on CNN's website*




Email news signup form
Sign up for news:
What will I receive?







                
                 
              




© Copyright 2015 Plan


Sitemap


Accessibility


Terms and conditions


Privacy and Cookies


Child Protection





