Haiyan survivors find their way home — Where we work — Plan InternationalHaiyan survivors find their way home — Where we work — Plan International
[skip to content]


Sponsor a child
Media

Resources

Contact

Jobs

FAQ




Plan InternationalPlan Philippines
Plan Asia
Plan Home



You are here:
Home »

Where we work »
              
           
      

Asia »
              
           
      

Philippines »
              
           
      

What we do  »
              
           
      

Our successes »
              
           
      

          
              
              Haiyan survivors find their way home
           
      




About Plan in Philippines


What we do 

Our successes


Typhoon Haiyan response


The Youth Reporter Project



Where we work


What you can do 






                
                 
              

Info


Haiyan survivors find their way home

Ruvelyn and her family.

February 2014: Unfazed by the sun’s heat and the humid coastal breeze, Ruvelyn shovels gravel into a yellow wheelbarrow. Pausing momentarily to stop the track of sweat running down her forehead, she shovels once more. She wants to help in any way she can to build a house for her 6 children. Typhoon Haiyan completely washed away the one they used to live in.
Losing home, losing hope
Ruvelyn still remembers the terrifying moments when she and her children were holding on for their lives. Perched precariously on the beams of the ceiling of her sister’s house next door, they watched helplessly as their home was destroyed. The raging wind ripped it apart and then the surge came and washed it away.
Ruvelyn single-handedly raises her children. Her eldest child is 16, while the youngest is just 9 months old. She washes and irons clothes for a living. The meager income she earns barely makes ends meet, but she stretches it as far as she can to cover the rent. When Haiyan struck Tacloban and the neighboring provinces, she lost everything.
“While everyone is still reeling from the effects of the disaster, we are not getting any demand for laundry service. Electricity is not yet restored, so ironing clothes for other families is impossible, too.”
Building back better
Then one day, when Ruvelyn got home after clearing debris in her neighbourhood as part of Plan's Cash For Work programme, some unexpected news came: local officials informed her she was to receive housing assistance under Plan’s Building Back Better in Tacloban Project.
Not long after receiving the news, the materials came and workers began building the transitional house. The 12-month Building Back Better project aims to provide assistance to 1,289 households, benefitting more than 6,000 individuals whose houses were totally or partially damaged. When the recipients do not have their own lots, host families (lot owners) sign an agreement to allow the building of housing on their land.
Funded by the Office of US Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA), the project will rehabilitate communities and improve water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) facilities, as well as provide gender-based violence-related services, disaster risk reduction training and child-friendly spaces. Most importantly, the project fosters community ownership of the rebuilding process.
As her 10-year-old daughter, Marlyn, looks on, holding her 9-month-old sister, Angelica, Ruvelyn shovels another heap of gravel into the wheelbarrow. By helping build the house that will give her family respite for a long time to come, she hopes to rebuild a better life for her family, together with the other residents in her community.






Share this page:

Facebook


del.icio.us


Digg


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


My Space



        Send to a friend
      






Support our work
Sponsor a childMake a donation


Follow us





Youth Reporter Project



Latest items


Plan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath


Typhoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas




Contact Plan
Plan Philippines4th Bloomingdale BuildingNo. 205 Salcedo StreetLegaspi Village, Makati CityPhilippinesTel: (+632) 813 0030 up to 33
 

     






                
                 
              




© Copyright 2015 Plan


Sitemap


Accessibility


Terms and conditions


Privacy and Cookies


Child Protection





