One year after Haiyan hit the Philippines: #MaketheRightMove | Oxfam International Blogs
One year after Haiyan hit the Philippines: #MaketheRightMove | Oxfam International Blogs


Jump to navigation






English
Français
Español




Search form

Search 









Jobs
News
Policy & Research
Contact






Main menuExplore
Take Action
Worldwide
Blogs
Donate
 

Main menu options



How we fight poverty
Emergency response
Issues we work on
Long-Term Development
Global Ambassadors
Multimedia
About us






 

How we fight poverty 

The injustice of poverty demands a powerful and practical response to address both its causes and its impact on peoples' lives. 





 

Gaza: Food vouchers provide a lifeline for families who have lost everything 

In the blink of an eye, Ahmed's home and his shop were bombed into rubble. Now he is struggling to provide for his family. Oxfam and partners have been distributing emergency food vouchers to 50,000 families like Ahmad's. 






Campaign with us
Find an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Spread the word
Volunteer with us
Shop with us
Work with us






 

Oxfam Trailwalker 

Challenge yourself and challenge poverty in the ultimate test of determination and teamwork. 





 

Oxfam Unwrapped 

Looking for something a little different this festive season? Oxfam Unwrapped is a chance for you to share with your family, friends or loved ones the gift of making a real difference to someone's life. Give a gift that truly gives twice! 









  All

Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean  

Central and East Africa  

East Asia  

Eastern Europe and former Soviet Union  

Horn of Africa  

Maghreb & Middle East  

North America  

Pacific  

South America  

South Asia  

Southern Africa  

West Africa  

Western Europe  
 



  
 Afghanistan 

 Algeria 

 Armenia 

 Azerbaijan 

 Bangladesh 

 Benin 

 Bolivia 

 Brazil 

 Burkina Faso 

 Burundi 

 Cambodia 

 Central African Republic 

 Chad 

 China 

 Colombia 

 Cuba 

 Democratic Republic of Congo 

 Dominican Republic 

 Ecuador 

 Egypt 

 El Salvador 

 Ethiopia 

 Georgia 

 Ghana 

 Guatemala 

 Haiti 

 Honduras 

 Indonesia 

 Ivory Coast 

 Kenya 

 Laos 

 Lebanon 

 Liberia 

 Malawi 

 Mali 

 Mauritania 

 Mexico 

 Morocco 

 Mozambique 

 Myanmar (Burma) 

 Nepal 

 Nicaragua 

 Niger 

 Nigeria 

 Occupied Palestinian Territory and Israel 

 Pakistan 

 Papua New Guinea 

 Paraguay 

 Peru 

 Philippines 

 Russia 

 Rwanda 

 Samoa 

 Senegal 

 Sierra Leone 

 Solomon Islands 

 Somalia 

 South Africa 

 South Sudan 

 Sri Lanka 

 Sudan 

 Tajikistan 

 Tanzania 

 Thailand 

 Timor-Leste (East Timor) 

 Tonga 

 Uganda 

 Vanuatu 

 Vietnam 

 Western Sahara 

 Yemen 

 Zambia 
 






 

The Guardians of South Sudan 

In South Sudan, peace seemed like a lost dream after conflict erupted in December 2013. But many are trying to keep hope alive. 





 

From grove to market: Palestinian olive harvest in Farkha 

Oxfam and local partners run a program which helps Palestinian farmers improve the quality and quantity of their olive oil and reach local and international markets. 






Blog channels
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Food and Gender
Future of Agriculture
Inequality and essential services
General





Blog: Why is Oxfam calling for a World Tax Summit?23 January 2015



Blog: World leaders at Davos: Show us your climate credentials!20 January 2015







  
 Crisis in Gaza 

 Crisis in South Sudan 
 
More donation options





 

Crisis in South Sudan 

Nearly 4 million people remain in urgent need in South Sudan following the conflict that broke out in December 2013. Over 1.9 million people have fled their homes and are displaced within the country and over 479,000 have fled to neighboring countries. We have reached more than 360,000 people with life saving essentials, but we urgently need to reach more.  





 

Crisis in Syria 

More than three years after the beginning of the conflict in Syria the war shows no sign of abating. Massive numbers of refugees have fled conflict areas and are now living in inadequate shelter within Syria or in neighboring countries. 



 Close 

You are hereHome › Blogs › 






Conflict & Emergencies blog channel 

One year after Haiyan hit the Philippines: #MaketheRightMove

 

Blog post by Lan MercadoOxfam Great Britain, Deputy Regional Director in AsiaMore from Lan Mercado 

Share this page: 












 

In the dark of night, the winds howled and the waves crashed. In the Philippines, they called it Yolanda, the super-typhoon that ripped through the central islands of the country before dawn on November 8, 2013.  Winds swirling at close to 200 mph dumped volumes of rain and whipped the sea, making it rise 25 feet high before coming down to pound houses to smithereens and snuffing out thousands of lives.
Daybreak revealed a broken country, and a people's fighting spirit. By noon that day, millions of people across nine regions of the Philippines had been thrown into chaos. I remember writing with dread that people would struggle with clean water, food, shelter, privacy, security and fear of the unknown.  Humanitarian actors tried mightily to help meet these needs but one month later, on December 2013, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in the Philippines reported that "food and other urgent support is not sufficiently reaching remote areas due to logistical challenges."
I also remember that while my heart was with my fellow Filipinos, I had to watch Yolanda  as it tracked towards Viet Nam, Cambodia and Laos.  I prayed that, as it had already taken too much from my country, that it would dissipate and disappear over the sea from where it came.
Total devastation
Looking back a year later, the statistics are no less heart wrenching: more than 6,000 people killed and 4.1 million displaced. To date, 475,000 people are still living in unsafe or inadequate shelters and nearly 25,000 people are still in evacuation centers. Joy, a village health worker from an interior barrio in northern Cebu, was one of those left homeless. I was doing Oxfam’s recovery assessment and Joy helped me talk to families whose houses had been destroyed and livelihoods ruined, who were poor before and even poorer after losing the assets they built up over many years during the storm. I asked Joy to show me her house and she brought me to a pile of sticks. Right before Yolanda hit, Joy had paid PhP15k of her savings from selling vegetables to have electricity installed in the house that she and her husband built, only to lose everything.
Yolanda will not be the last storm that will devastate the Philippines and other countries in Asia, the most disaster-prone region of the world, according to the United Nations Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR). Over the past 20 years, Asia has borne almost half of the estimated global economic cost of all disasters, amounting to almost $53 billion annually. Climate-related disasters are compounding the risks for people and will keep coming.
Opportunities for transformation

A year ago, I saw opportunities for social transformation in Yolanda’s wake. Today, I do know that most governments in Asia have established policies around disaster and climate change preparedness. However, plans are being implemented with varying success. Oxfam’s latest reports, Can’t Afford to Wait and In the Shadow of the Storm confirm that greater political will, more resources and better coordination are required to protect vulnerable groups from the threats of disasters, including those caused by climate change.
In the case of the Philippines, Oxfam found that while the Philippine government has shown leadership in the humanitarian response and rebuilding efforts, plans have not translated to real impact because of a lack of money and coordination in local communities. And, in order for the investments to work, they must include displaced people in decision making and take their needs into account. For example, new housing should not be built far from jobs like fishing and agriculture, or families will not be able to resume their work and self-sufficiency.
Meeting the climate challenge
Yolanda and other large-scale disasters in Asia have taught us that we all must pitch in. Regional cooperation is crucial and we have the chance to ask our leaders to step up and address this critical issue. The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) can do a lot more to boost financing for national climate adaptation. As a community of nations, we ought to stand together and collectively secure the financial support we need from developed countries at the upcoming international climate meeting in Lima, Peru in December 2014.
One year ago, I wrote that we must make each life that was lost count. I had hoped that Yolanda would serve to transform us as individuals and as a country, or we are cursed to be haunted by ghosts. One year later, there are glimmers of change, but certainly not enough. Yet, we cannot give up. On the contrary, our continued efforts must be the force to steer international and regional institutions, national and local governments, and citizens to #maketherightmove towards climate justice and resilience.
Lan Mercado is the Deputy Regional Director in Oxfam in Asia, a passionate campaigner and Filipina.
Photos:1. (Top) Oxfam water facility, after Typhoon Haiyan. Anibong district, Tacloban, Philippines. September 2014. Photo: Simon Roberts/Oxfam
2. Joy and her husband in front of what’s left of their home. Dec 2013. Photo: Lan Mercado/Oxfam
3. (Bottom) Bito, 7, was part of a group of children playing on the beach in San Jose, Tacloban, wearing superhero costumes made from tarps, empty relief goods, and trash bags. Photo: Simon Roberts/Oxfam
What you can do
Watch and share: Yeb Saño, Climate Change Commissioner in the Philippines, makes an urgent plea: "We are at war with climate change and hunger"
Read: More on Oxfam's response to Typhoon Haiyan
Join: the campaign to stop climate change making people hungry
Follow the Oxfam team at the COP20 UN climate talks in Lima, Peru
Tags: Philippinestyphoon HaiyanYolandaclimate disastershumanitarian emergencyreconstructionAsiaConflict & EmergenciesPermalink: http://oxf.am/ZZTh 






Conflict & Emergencies


Conflict, disasters and emergencies are frequent, but their devastating impact on ordinary people can often be avoided.


 Blog channels

Food and Gender: Online Discussion
Future of Agriculture: Online Discussion
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Inequality and essential services
General











Currently showing Oxfam International's social media channels. Show all channels 


Join us on Facebook










View videos on YouTube



   

   

   

 



View photos on Flickr
 








What we doHow we fight poverty
Emergencies
Campaigns
Issues
Where we work

About UsWhat we believe
Ambassadors
Accountability
EU Office
Annual Report

What you can doFind an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Buy Unwrapped
Jobs

ResourcesMultimedia
Policy & Research
FAQs
RSS feeds

 





Oxfam Affiliates


  
 Oxfam International Secretariat 

 Oxfam America 

 Oxfam Australia 

 Oxfam Canada 

 Oxfam France  
  
 Oxfam Germany 

 Oxfam Great Britain 

 Oxfam Hong Kong 

 Oxfam India 

 Oxfam Intermón (Spain) 
  
 Oxfam Ireland 

 Oxfam Italy 

 Oxfam Mexico 

 Oxfam Novib (Netherlands) 

 Oxfam-in-Belgium 
  
 Oxfam-Québec 

 Oxfam Japan 

 Oxfam New Zealand 
 
 


Contact
Privacy




      
  Copyright © 2015 Oxfam International. All rights reserved.  



 




