typhoon Haiyan | Oxfam International Blogs
typhoon Haiyan | Oxfam International Blogs


Jump to navigation






English
Français
Español




Search form

Search 









Jobs
News
Policy & Research
Contact






Main menuExplore
Take Action
Worldwide
Blogs
Donate
 

Main menu options



How we fight poverty
Emergency response
Issues we work on
Long-Term Development
Global Ambassadors
Multimedia
About us






 

How we fight poverty 

The injustice of poverty demands a powerful and practical response to address both its causes and its impact on peoples' lives. 





 

Gaza: Food vouchers provide a lifeline for families who have lost everything 

In the blink of an eye, Ahmed's home and his shop were bombed into rubble. Now he is struggling to provide for his family. Oxfam and partners have been distributing emergency food vouchers to 50,000 families like Ahmad's. 






Campaign with us
Find an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Spread the word
Volunteer with us
Shop with us
Work with us






 

Oxfam Trailwalker 

Challenge yourself and challenge poverty in the ultimate test of determination and teamwork. 





 

Oxfam Unwrapped 

Looking for something a little different this festive season? Oxfam Unwrapped is a chance for you to share with your family, friends or loved ones the gift of making a real difference to someone's life. Give a gift that truly gives twice! 









  All

Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean  

Central and East Africa  

East Asia  

Eastern Europe and former Soviet Union  

Horn of Africa  

Maghreb & Middle East  

North America  

Pacific  

South America  

South Asia  

Southern Africa  

West Africa  

Western Europe  
 



  
 Afghanistan 

 Algeria 

 Armenia 

 Azerbaijan 

 Bangladesh 

 Benin 

 Bolivia 

 Brazil 

 Burkina Faso 

 Burundi 

 Cambodia 

 Central African Republic 

 Chad 

 China 

 Colombia 

 Cuba 

 Democratic Republic of Congo 

 Dominican Republic 

 Ecuador 

 Egypt 

 El Salvador 

 Ethiopia 

 Georgia 

 Ghana 

 Guatemala 

 Haiti 

 Honduras 

 Indonesia 

 Ivory Coast 

 Kenya 

 Laos 

 Lebanon 

 Liberia 

 Malawi 

 Mali 

 Mauritania 

 Mexico 

 Morocco 

 Mozambique 

 Myanmar (Burma) 

 Nepal 

 Nicaragua 

 Niger 

 Nigeria 

 Occupied Palestinian Territory and Israel 

 Pakistan 

 Papua New Guinea 

 Paraguay 

 Peru 

 Philippines 

 Russia 

 Rwanda 

 Samoa 

 Senegal 

 Sierra Leone 

 Solomon Islands 

 Somalia 

 South Africa 

 South Sudan 

 Sri Lanka 

 Sudan 

 Tajikistan 

 Tanzania 

 Thailand 

 Timor-Leste (East Timor) 

 Tonga 

 Uganda 

 Vanuatu 

 Vietnam 

 Western Sahara 

 Yemen 

 Zambia 
 






 

The Guardians of South Sudan 

In South Sudan, peace seemed like a lost dream after conflict erupted in December 2013. But many are trying to keep hope alive. 





 

From grove to market: Palestinian olive harvest in Farkha 

Oxfam and local partners run a program which helps Palestinian farmers improve the quality and quantity of their olive oil and reach local and international markets. 






Blog channels
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Food and Gender
Future of Agriculture
Inequality and essential services
General





Blog: Why is Oxfam calling for a World Tax Summit?23 January 2015



Blog: World leaders at Davos: Show us your climate credentials!20 January 2015







  
 Crisis in Gaza 

 Crisis in South Sudan 
 
More donation options





 

Crisis in South Sudan 

Nearly 4 million people remain in urgent need in South Sudan following the conflict that broke out in December 2013. Over 1.9 million people have fled their homes and are displaced within the country and over 479,000 have fled to neighboring countries. We have reached more than 360,000 people with life saving essentials, but we urgently need to reach more.  





 

Crisis in Syria 

More than three years after the beginning of the conflict in Syria the war shows no sign of abating. Massive numbers of refugees have fled conflict areas and are now living in inadequate shelter within Syria or in neighboring countries. 



 Close 

You are hereHome › Blogs › 




typhoon Haiyan





Blog: One year after Haiyan hit the Philippines: #MaketheRightMove23 November 2014When super-typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines, it devastated the country, killing 6,000 people and displacing 4.1 million others. Yet Lan Mercado, Deputy Regional Director in Oxfam Asia, saw opportunities for social transformation in Yolanda’s wake. Have they materialized?


Blog: Let the anniversary of Typhoon Haiyan stir the world to high ambition on climate change13 November 2014It’s been one year since super-Typhoon 

Blog: After Haiyan – moving in the right direction?30 April 2014When typhoon Haiyan hit the central Philippines last November, killing more than 6,000 people and destroying millions of people’s houses and livelihoods, people like fisherman Lionel Advincula, from Barangay Bislig in Tanauan municipality, Leyte province, found themselves having to make some tough choices.
One of the most pressing priorities for the father-of-nine was to find shelter and to rebuild his damaged house.  It stood just 20 metres from the coast and was totally destroyed.

Blog: I’ve seen how climate change makes people hungry - We must act now26 March 2014Typhoon Haiyan, the biggest storm to ever make landfall, devastated my homeland. Three days later I attended the opening of the UN climate change talks in Poland.

Blog: The art of saying "Thank you"7 February 2014We might feel aggrieved when we’ve gone out of our way to do something for someone and receive no word of thanks afterwards. I’m sure most of us have felt that way and have been equally guilty of failing to say ‘thank you’ at some time. But working as part of Oxfam’s emergency response team my colleagues and I don’t expect to receive any thanks from the people we work with. It’s our job and it’s their right to receive help during the worst of times - when a disaster has devastated their lives, families, homes, communities, countries. 

Blog: The simple saw helps the Philippines recover the ‘tree of life’6 January 2014Typhoon Haiyan caused widespread damage to livelihoods. Among the worst affected, was coconut farming with millions of trees being uprooted, damaged or destroyed.
One coconut farmers association estimated the damage to be around 98%. Dubbed as the “tree of life”, it takes between five to seven years for a coconut tree to become productive so recovery will take a long time.

Blog: Philippines: Christmas after Typhoon Haiyan - rise up, stand up23 December 2013On Bantayan Island, North Cebu, I find a home made ukulele. When I play it the crowd of people around me start singing ‘We wish you a merry Christmas’. I’m not sure who’s the most surprised. Christmas is big in the Philippines. In Cebu City there’s a sign ‘The twelve weeks of Christmas’. They’re not joking. Christmas is normally the biggest event of the year, but this is not a normal year.

Blog: One month after Typhoon Haiyan: Rebuilding a just and resilient society11 December 2013This post was written by Lan Mercado, Oxfam’s Deputy Regional Director in Asia. She served as Oxfam’s Country Director in the Philippines from 2001-2009. It was written with contributions from Shaheen Chugtai, Deputy Head of Oxfam’s Humanitarian and Security Issues Team, and research from Paht Tan-Attanawin, Oxfam Project Officer.

Blog: Why aid delivery isn’t instant — and ways it could be faster20 November 2013When our rapid assessment teams came back from Leyte and Eastern Samar, they came from a total information blackout into a storm of angry and combative debate on the efficiency of government response to supertyphoon Haiyan victims. A couple of my colleagues marveled at how negative the atmosphere was and admittedly, the debate has gotten pretty exhausting and polarizing. Everywhere I go, whether it’s a dinner, a team meeting, an email exchange or social media, the conversations run along the same questions. Why is government response so slow?

Blog: Learning lessons in the Philippines19 November 2013It is only three years since the world was shocked by Haiti’s earthquake and Pakistan’s terrible floods in the same year. That was 2010, and both governments and private donors responded with massive generosity. International humanitarian aid shot up to US$20.2 billion to attempt, at least, to cope with the ‘year of two megadisasters.’
Pages1
2
next ›
last »
  







Currently showing Oxfam International's social media channels. Show all channels 


Join us on Facebook










View videos on YouTube



   

   

   

 



View photos on Flickr
 








What we doHow we fight poverty
Emergencies
Campaigns
Issues
Where we work

About UsWhat we believe
Ambassadors
Accountability
EU Office
Annual Report

What you can doFind an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Buy Unwrapped
Jobs

ResourcesMultimedia
Policy & Research
FAQs
RSS feeds

 





Oxfam Affiliates


  
 Oxfam International Secretariat 

 Oxfam America 

 Oxfam Australia 

 Oxfam Canada 

 Oxfam France  
  
 Oxfam Germany 

 Oxfam Great Britain 

 Oxfam Hong Kong 

 Oxfam India 

 Oxfam Intermón (Spain) 
  
 Oxfam Ireland 

 Oxfam Italy 

 Oxfam Mexico 

 Oxfam Novib (Netherlands) 

 Oxfam-in-Belgium 
  
 Oxfam-Québec 

 Oxfam Japan 

 Oxfam New Zealand 
 
 


Contact
Privacy




      
  Copyright © 2015 Oxfam International. All rights reserved.  



 




