Philippines rep's tearful testimony makes compelling case for climate action | Oxfam International Blogs
Philippines rep's tearful testimony makes compelling case for climate action | Oxfam International Blogs


Jump to navigation






English
Français
Español




Search form

Search 









Jobs
News
Policy & Research
Contact






Main menuExplore
Take Action
Worldwide
Blogs
Donate
 

Main menu options



How we fight poverty
Emergency response
Issues we work on
Long-Term Development
Global Ambassadors
Multimedia
About us






 

How we fight poverty 

The injustice of poverty demands a powerful and practical response to address both its causes and its impact on peoples' lives. 





 

Gaza: Food vouchers provide a lifeline for families who have lost everything 

In the blink of an eye, Ahmed's home and his shop were bombed into rubble. Now he is struggling to provide for his family. Oxfam and partners have been distributing emergency food vouchers to 50,000 families like Ahmad's. 






Campaign with us
Find an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Spread the word
Volunteer with us
Shop with us
Work with us






 

Oxfam Trailwalker 

Challenge yourself and challenge poverty in the ultimate test of determination and teamwork. 





 

Oxfam Unwrapped 

Looking for something a little different this festive season? Oxfam Unwrapped is a chance for you to share with your family, friends or loved ones the gift of making a real difference to someone's life. Give a gift that truly gives twice! 









  All

Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean  

Central and East Africa  

East Asia  

Eastern Europe and former Soviet Union  

Horn of Africa  

Maghreb & Middle East  

North America  

Pacific  

South America  

South Asia  

Southern Africa  

West Africa  

Western Europe  
 



  
 Afghanistan 

 Algeria 

 Armenia 

 Azerbaijan 

 Bangladesh 

 Benin 

 Bolivia 

 Brazil 

 Burkina Faso 

 Burundi 

 Cambodia 

 Central African Republic 

 Chad 

 China 

 Colombia 

 Cuba 

 Democratic Republic of Congo 

 Dominican Republic 

 Ecuador 

 Egypt 

 El Salvador 

 Ethiopia 

 Georgia 

 Ghana 

 Guatemala 

 Haiti 

 Honduras 

 Indonesia 

 Ivory Coast 

 Kenya 

 Laos 

 Lebanon 

 Liberia 

 Malawi 

 Mali 

 Mauritania 

 Mexico 

 Morocco 

 Mozambique 

 Myanmar (Burma) 

 Nepal 

 Nicaragua 

 Niger 

 Nigeria 

 Occupied Palestinian Territory and Israel 

 Pakistan 

 Papua New Guinea 

 Paraguay 

 Peru 

 Philippines 

 Russia 

 Rwanda 

 Samoa 

 Senegal 

 Sierra Leone 

 Solomon Islands 

 Somalia 

 South Africa 

 South Sudan 

 Sri Lanka 

 Sudan 

 Tajikistan 

 Tanzania 

 Thailand 

 Timor-Leste (East Timor) 

 Tonga 

 Uganda 

 Vanuatu 

 Vietnam 

 Western Sahara 

 Yemen 

 Zambia 
 






 

The Guardians of South Sudan 

In South Sudan, peace seemed like a lost dream after conflict erupted in December 2013. But many are trying to keep hope alive. 





 

From grove to market: Palestinian olive harvest in Farkha 

Oxfam and local partners run a program which helps Palestinian farmers improve the quality and quantity of their olive oil and reach local and international markets. 






Blog channels
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Food and Gender
Future of Agriculture
Inequality and essential services
General





Blog: Why is Oxfam calling for a World Tax Summit?23 January 2015



Blog: World leaders at Davos: Show us your climate credentials!20 January 2015







  
 Crisis in Gaza 

 Crisis in South Sudan 
 
More donation options





 

Crisis in South Sudan 

Nearly 4 million people remain in urgent need in South Sudan following the conflict that broke out in December 2013. Over 1.9 million people have fled their homes and are displaced within the country and over 479,000 have fled to neighboring countries. We have reached more than 360,000 people with life saving essentials, but we urgently need to reach more.  





 

Crisis in Syria 

More than three years after the beginning of the conflict in Syria the war shows no sign of abating. Massive numbers of refugees have fled conflict areas and are now living in inadequate shelter within Syria or in neighboring countries. 



 Close 

You are hereHome › Blogs › 






GROW blog channel 

Philippines rep's tearful testimony makes compelling case for climate action

 

Blog post by Kelly DentOxfam Australia, Economic Justice Policy and Avocacy LeadMore from Kelly Dent 

Share this page: 












 

At the opening of the UN climate talks in Warsaw yesterday representatives of countries from around the globe packed into the conference hall to hear the lead climate negotiator for the Philippines, Yeb Sano, describe the ‘unthinkable, horrific and unprecedented devastation left in the wake of Typoon Haiyan - the strongest typhoon in modern recorded history’. In an emotional appeal Yeb told of his agonising wait for word from his relatives, his relief that his brother has survived the onslaught and the traumatic experiences his brother had lived through over the past few days ‘hungry and weary, he gathered bodies of the dead with his own hands.”
It was by far the most moving intervention I have heard in all the years I have followed the highs and lows of the climate change negotiations. With these poignant and powerful words, everyone in the huge conference hall, which is so often devoid of atmosphere, was brought face to face with the reality of what climate change means for some of the world’s poorest and most vulnerable communities across the world and yes tears were shed by many.
More extreme weather
While it is impossible to say whether any one storm, flood or heat wave results from climate change, scientists are clear that extreme weather events, such as Typhoon Haiyan, will become more likely as the world warms.
There can be no more compelling reason to reduce emissions and help poor countries prepare for and adapt to extreme and erratic weather than the case put by Yeb Sano. However, it is by no means certain that country officials sitting around the negotiating tables in Warsaw are ready to act with the urgency demanded.
People in devastated areas of the Philippines need food, water, medical attention and shelter right now and Oxfam is working hard to deliver clean water and sanitation to families in some of the worst affected areas. But poor communities in the Philippines, Bangladesh, Mozambique, Guatemala and around the world also need help to ensure that they can prepare for and adapt to increasingly extreme and erratic weather.
Stop this madness
Governments can show that they were truly listening to Yeb Sano’s words and are ready to take urgent climate action by agreeing here in Warsaw an international mechanism on loss and damage that addresses the impacts of climate change which it is not possible to adapt to – such as loss of life or nation. 
Developed countries must also spell out how they plan to deliver the $100 billion a year by 2020 for climate finance- promised four years ago in Copenhagen and clearly commit money right here, right now to help poor countries cope with the impacts of climate change.
Poor countries on the climate front line need to know this money will be available, that it won’t be diverted from existing aid budgets or given as loans which they will struggle to pay back. While there is no getting away from the fact that this is a significant chunk of money it’s a drop in the ocean compared to the huge sums - up to $90 billion a year – rich countries spent on fossil fuel subsidies between 2005 and 2011.
As Yeb Sano said, ‘What my country is going through as a result of this extreme climate event is madness. The climate crisis is madness… we can stop this madness, right here in Warsaw.”
 
You may also like
Support Oxfam's Typhoon Haiyan Appeal
Read how climate change is making extreme weather much more likely: Extreme Weather, Extreme Prices
Join Oxfam's GROW campaign, to help ensure we all have enough to eat, alwaysTags: typhoon HaiyanYolandaextreme weatherclimate changeUNFCCCCOP 19UN climate talksGROW 






GROW


 
Already a billion of us go to bed hungry every night. Not because there isn't enough, but because of the deep injustice in the way the system works.
 


 Blog channels

Food and Gender: Online Discussion
Future of Agriculture: Online Discussion
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Inequality and essential services
General











Currently showing Oxfam International's social media channels. Show all channels 


Join us on Facebook










View videos on YouTube



   

   

   

 



View photos on Flickr
 








What we doHow we fight poverty
Emergencies
Campaigns
Issues
Where we work

About UsWhat we believe
Ambassadors
Accountability
EU Office
Annual Report

What you can doFind an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Buy Unwrapped
Jobs

ResourcesMultimedia
Policy & Research
FAQs
RSS feeds

 





Oxfam Affiliates


  
 Oxfam International Secretariat 

 Oxfam America 

 Oxfam Australia 

 Oxfam Canada 

 Oxfam France  
  
 Oxfam Germany 

 Oxfam Great Britain 

 Oxfam Hong Kong 

 Oxfam India 

 Oxfam Intermón (Spain) 
  
 Oxfam Ireland 

 Oxfam Italy 

 Oxfam Mexico 

 Oxfam Novib (Netherlands) 

 Oxfam-in-Belgium 
  
 Oxfam-Québec 

 Oxfam Japan 

 Oxfam New Zealand 
 
 


Contact
Privacy




      
  Copyright © 2015 Oxfam International. All rights reserved.  



 




