Let the anniversary of Typhoon Haiyan stir the world to high ambition on climate change | Oxfam International Blogs
Let the anniversary of Typhoon Haiyan stir the world to high ambition on climate change | Oxfam International Blogs


Jump to navigation






English
Français
Español




Search form

Search 









Jobs
News
Policy & Research
Contact






Main menuExplore
Take Action
Worldwide
Blogs
Donate
 

Main menu options



How we fight poverty
Emergency response
Issues we work on
Long-Term Development
Global Ambassadors
Multimedia
About us






 

How we fight poverty 

The injustice of poverty demands a powerful and practical response to address both its causes and its impact on peoples' lives. 





 

Gaza: Food vouchers provide a lifeline for families who have lost everything 

In the blink of an eye, Ahmed's home and his shop were bombed into rubble. Now he is struggling to provide for his family. Oxfam and partners have been distributing emergency food vouchers to 50,000 families like Ahmad's. 






Campaign with us
Find an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Spread the word
Volunteer with us
Shop with us
Work with us






 

Oxfam Trailwalker 

Challenge yourself and challenge poverty in the ultimate test of determination and teamwork. 





 

Oxfam Unwrapped 

Looking for something a little different this festive season? Oxfam Unwrapped is a chance for you to share with your family, friends or loved ones the gift of making a real difference to someone's life. Give a gift that truly gives twice! 









  All

Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean  

Central and East Africa  

East Asia  

Eastern Europe and former Soviet Union  

Horn of Africa  

Maghreb & Middle East  

North America  

Pacific  

South America  

South Asia  

Southern Africa  

West Africa  

Western Europe  
 



  
 Afghanistan 

 Algeria 

 Armenia 

 Azerbaijan 

 Bangladesh 

 Benin 

 Bolivia 

 Brazil 

 Burkina Faso 

 Burundi 

 Cambodia 

 Central African Republic 

 Chad 

 China 

 Colombia 

 Cuba 

 Democratic Republic of Congo 

 Dominican Republic 

 Ecuador 

 Egypt 

 El Salvador 

 Ethiopia 

 Georgia 

 Ghana 

 Guatemala 

 Haiti 

 Honduras 

 Indonesia 

 Ivory Coast 

 Kenya 

 Laos 

 Lebanon 

 Liberia 

 Malawi 

 Mali 

 Mauritania 

 Mexico 

 Morocco 

 Mozambique 

 Myanmar (Burma) 

 Nepal 

 Nicaragua 

 Niger 

 Nigeria 

 Occupied Palestinian Territory and Israel 

 Pakistan 

 Papua New Guinea 

 Paraguay 

 Peru 

 Philippines 

 Russia 

 Rwanda 

 Samoa 

 Senegal 

 Sierra Leone 

 Solomon Islands 

 Somalia 

 South Africa 

 South Sudan 

 Sri Lanka 

 Sudan 

 Tajikistan 

 Tanzania 

 Thailand 

 Timor-Leste (East Timor) 

 Tonga 

 Uganda 

 Vanuatu 

 Vietnam 

 Western Sahara 

 Yemen 

 Zambia 
 






 

The Guardians of South Sudan 

In South Sudan, peace seemed like a lost dream after conflict erupted in December 2013. But many are trying to keep hope alive. 





 

From grove to market: Palestinian olive harvest in Farkha 

Oxfam and local partners run a program which helps Palestinian farmers improve the quality and quantity of their olive oil and reach local and international markets. 






Blog channels
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Food and Gender
Future of Agriculture
Inequality and essential services
General





Blog: Why is Oxfam calling for a World Tax Summit?23 January 2015



Blog: World leaders at Davos: Show us your climate credentials!20 January 2015







  
 Crisis in Gaza 

 Crisis in South Sudan 
 
More donation options





 

Crisis in South Sudan 

Nearly 4 million people remain in urgent need in South Sudan following the conflict that broke out in December 2013. Over 1.9 million people have fled their homes and are displaced within the country and over 479,000 have fled to neighboring countries. We have reached more than 360,000 people with life saving essentials, but we urgently need to reach more.  





 

Crisis in Syria 

More than three years after the beginning of the conflict in Syria the war shows no sign of abating. Massive numbers of refugees have fled conflict areas and are now living in inadequate shelter within Syria or in neighboring countries. 



 Close 

You are hereHome › Blogs › 






Conflict & Emergencies blog channel 

Let the anniversary of Typhoon Haiyan stir the world to high ambition on climate change

 

Blog post by Winnie ByanyimaOxfam International, Executive DirectorMore from Winnie Byanyima 

Share this page: 












 

It’s been one year since super-Typhoon Haiyan tore through the Philippines, a disaster that devastated thousands of lives and left millions of people homeless. It was the strongest typhoon to make landfall since records began, causing a huge storm surge that ripped through coastal neighbourhoods and agricultural lands, damaging millions of coconut trees, thousands of fishing boats and destroying more than one million tonnes of crops.
The immense devastation left in Haiyan’s path was a wake-up call to the world – yet another deadly warning of what we can expect unless we take the right action on climate change. The next two big international meetings on climate change - in Lima at the end of this year, and in Paris at the end of 2015 - must be a turning point in the level of ambition to fight the biggest crisis of our lifetime.
There are many issues to resolve in the year to come. One of them is money. This month, governments have an opportunity to face up to the real cost of climate change, by pledging generously to the Green Climate Fund (GCF).  Discussions about paying the price for climate change have reached a stand-off, in which wealthy countries won't put money on the table until there are clear plans from developing countries for spending that money. With the right level of political will, with a clear understanding of the needs, and with enough money pledged, there is hope for a global climate deal that would ensure all countries take a fair share of the responsibility for climate change.
Nowhere is this more urgent than in Asia - the most disaster-prone region in the world, and home to two-thirds of the world’s most undernourished and food-insecure people. In 2013, 78 percent of people killed by disasters lived in Asia even though only 60 percent of global disasters occurred here. Over the past 20 years, Asia has borne almost half the estimated global economic cost of disasters triggered by natural phenomena, amounting to almost $67 billion USD annually. Harvest losses alone related to flooding in Southeast Asia have an estimated annual value of $1 billion USD. If no action is taken, four countries—Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam—could suffer a loss equivalent to 6.7 percent of GDP annually by 2100, more than double the global average loss, according to the Asian Development Bank. This is an abrupt reversal for many economies across Asia, which has seen an average GDP rate of 6 percent increases every year since 2012.
It’s true that both in the Philippines and across Asia, most governments have policies to reduce the risk of disasters and help people adapt to life in an unsafe climate.  But the implementation of those policies is still being hampered by a range of challenges including lack of money, lack of political will and a lack of accurate data on actual risks and vulnerabilities. Without greater investment in climate and disaster-resilient development, the impact of disasters on the scale of Typhoon Haiyan-scale disaster could fast become the norm, not the exception in the region.
Governments and regional institutions in Asia must show leadership in stepping up to the challenge of rising disaster and climate risk.  This means increasing political commitment and investing adequate resources - funds, human resources, and program support - in improving local and national capacity to protect communities from the impacts of climate change and disasters. And the international community must dig much deeper to find the necessary funds to mitigate and help countries adapt to climate change.
When Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines last November, the global response was immense and rapid. Thanks to the efforts of the Philippine Government and local and international humanitarian agencies, millions of affected people were reached with life-saving support. Assisted by generous donations from supporters like you, Oxfam’s own response was able to reach almost 900,000 people, by providing clean water and sanitation, addressing immediate shelter needs, and supporting communities to help recover their livelihoods.
The world will always help people pick up the pieces of their ruined lives when disasters have struck. But imagine what we could achieve if we put the same energy and sense of urgency into building peoples' resilience to climate disasters before they happen.
There is no doubt about the scale of the challenge. But we must remain resolute and hopeful. To quote the Philippines ambassador to the UN, Yeb Sano: “Can humanity rise to the occasion? I still believe we can.” Governments meeting in Berlin at the pledging conference for the Green Climate Fund on November 20th should have his words ringing in their ears.
What you can do
Watch and share: Yeb Saño, Climate Change Commissioner in the Philippines, makes an urgent plea: "We are at war with climate change and hunger"
Read: More on Oxfam's response to Typhoon Haiyan
Join: the campaign to stop climate change making people hungryTags: typhoon HaiyanPhilippinesclimate changeGreen Climate FundresilienceConflict & EmergenciesPermalink: http://oxf.am/vHD 






Conflict & Emergencies


Conflict, disasters and emergencies are frequent, but their devastating impact on ordinary people can often be avoided.


 Blog channels

Food and Gender: Online Discussion
Future of Agriculture: Online Discussion
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Inequality and essential services
General











Currently showing Oxfam International's social media channels. Show all channels 


Join us on Facebook










View videos on YouTube



   

   

   

 



View photos on Flickr
 








What we doHow we fight poverty
Emergencies
Campaigns
Issues
Where we work

About UsWhat we believe
Ambassadors
Accountability
EU Office
Annual Report

What you can doFind an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Buy Unwrapped
Jobs

ResourcesMultimedia
Policy & Research
FAQs
RSS feeds

 





Oxfam Affiliates


  
 Oxfam International Secretariat 

 Oxfam America 

 Oxfam Australia 

 Oxfam Canada 

 Oxfam France  
  
 Oxfam Germany 

 Oxfam Great Britain 

 Oxfam Hong Kong 

 Oxfam India 

 Oxfam Intermón (Spain) 
  
 Oxfam Ireland 

 Oxfam Italy 

 Oxfam Mexico 

 Oxfam Novib (Netherlands) 

 Oxfam-in-Belgium 
  
 Oxfam-Québec 

 Oxfam Japan 

 Oxfam New Zealand 
 
 


Contact
Privacy




      
  Copyright © 2015 Oxfam International. All rights reserved.  



 




