AmeriCares: Meet Our Typhoon Haiyan Response Team 
AmeriCares: Meet Our Typhoon Haiyan Response Team












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Meet Our Typhoon Haiyan Response Team









Tweet










 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                












Garrett Ingoglia







Vice President of Emergency Response
Garrett is leading the typhoon response from AmeriCares headquarters, deploying response team members into the field, coordinating large-scale deliveries of medicines and relief supplies, exploring future aid projects and monitoring ongoing aid. In the weeks following the typhoon, he deployed to the Philippines to assess first-hand the needs of survivors and health facilities. Every year, Garrett oversees AmeriCares responses to more than two dozen earthquakes, floods, famines, hurricanes and other humanitarian crises.






Karl Erdmann





Emergency Response Manager
Karl, our response team lead on the ground, is based in Manila working with our existing and new partners to coordinate crucial aid distributions in hard-hit regions. Having responded to emergencies in South Sudan, Syria, Sierra Leone and the U.S., Karl will rely on his extensive experience in the field to ensure long-term needs are met for typhoon survivors. 






Riaz Khalil





program manager, emergency response & recovery
Riaz has worked with AmeriCares since 2005, responding to major disasters including the 2010-12 flooding in Pakistan, the 2011 famine in Somalia, the 2005 Pakistan earthquake, and the 2004 Southeast Asia tsunami. Riaz is working with other members of the Emergency Response team located in the Philippines to help rebuild and restore health care facilities in the affected region.  






Brett McEvoy





emergency Response expert
Having spent over three years coordinating large-scale aid shipments for AmeriCares global programs and emergency responses all over the world, Brett is skilled in getting relief where it is needed efficiently and effectively. While on the ground, Brett was stationed in Cebu to assist with distribution planning for AmeriCares medicines, medical supplies and aid.  






Lauren Camp





senior Program Associate, Asia Partnerships
Lauren has spent over two years working with our partners in the Philippines to distribute medicines, medical supplies and aid while pre-positioning relief supplies in the disaster-prone country. In 2012, Lauren was instrumental in coordinating our Typhoon Bopha response that helped restore Filipino health services after the super storm hit. She is currently working as a liaison for our partners, the emergency response team on the ground and the team located at our headquarters in the U.S.  






Puji Sutrisno





emergency Response expert
In the Philippines, Puji built partnerships with new and existing partners and other nonprofit organizations throughout the region as they continued to assess the critical needs of health care facilities and typhoon survivors. Puji has worked with AmeriCares since 2005 and was instrumental in coordinating our response to natural disasters in Indonesia including the 2004 Southeast Asian tsunami and the 2009 Sumatra earthquakes.  






Kate Dischino





emergency Response Manager
Kate, who heads our ER team in our responses in the U.S. and Latin America, was ready to take action immediately after the super typhoon struck on November 8. While in the field, Kate traveled to areas of devastation throughout the Philippines to distribute AmeriCares medicines, medical supplies and emergency kits.  






Brian Hoyer





director of Post Emergency Response
Brian is no stranger to emergency response coordination, having directed AmeriCares long-term response to the devastating 2010 Haiti earthquake as the Haiti Country Director. In the Philippines, Brian worked with other aid organizations responding to the typhoon to make sure survivors’ immediate health needs were met. He is now working on our long-term response plans from AmeriCares headquarters.






Alex Ostasiewicz





Senior Associate, Multimedia
While in the Philippines, Alex traveled with the members of our Emergency Response team throughout the devastated regions documenting the distribution of much-needed relief supplies while also capturing the stories of typhoon survivors. Alex has traveled the globe for AmeriCares, recording our work abroad and in the U.S. through photography and film.






Bob Stanton





Manager, Network Technology
In the days following the typhoon, when power was particularly limited, Bob was working to ensure that our teams in the field maintained digital and voice connectivity, using a satellite phone, satellite modem, laptop and backup solar power. Bob has deployed on a number of AmeriCares emergency responses, including Hurricane Katrina in 2005, the 2004 Asian Tsunami, and airlifts to Liberia and Iraq in 2003.




 




Read More
											  
											Donate Now


















Philippines Disaster Relief Fund
Please help deliver lifesaving aid to families suffering from Super Typhoon Haiyan. Your gift will be restricted to support AmeriCares disaster response in the Philippines.  
Donate Now




Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

