The New York Times: Get a Digital Subscription
The New York Times: Get a Digital Subscription











































Log In
Home Delivery Account


Choose the Times Digital Subscription that is best for you for just 99¢ for 4 weeks:
Try the Times Digital Experience99¢ for 4 weeks 
You can cancel anytime.





Every WeekThereafter
First4 Weeks






NYTimes.com + Smartphone Apps
Get web + Smartphone apps &blacktriangleright;
Unlimited access to NYTimes.comand the NYTimes smartphone apps.See Details

first 4 weeks99¢
Every Week Thereafter$3.75

HideSee Details






NYTimes.com + Tablet Apps
Get web + Tablet apps &blacktriangleright;
Unlimited access to NYTimes.comand the NYTimes tablet apps. See Details

first 4 weeks99¢
Every Week Thereafter$5.00

HideSee Details






All Digital Access
Get All Digital Access &blacktriangleright;
Unlimited access to NYTimes.com and theNYTimes smartphone and tablet apps. See Details

first 4 weeks99¢
Every Week Thereafter$8.75

HideSee Details

 

X

NYTimes.com + Smartphone Apps
NYTimes.com + Tablet Apps
All Digital Access


Unlimited access to NYTimes.com on any browser.
NYTimes smartphone apps on iPhone®, BlackBerry® 10, Windows® Phone 7+ and AndroidTM-powered phones.
NYTimes tablet apps on iPad®, Kindle Fire, Windows® 8 desktop and tablet, AndroidTM-powered tablets.
NYTimes tablet apps on iPad®, Kindle Fire, Windows 8 desktop and tablet, Android-powered tablets.
TimesMachine Archive — See issues with all articles, photos and ads as they originally appeared. View up to 100 articles per month.
Share your All Digital Access with a family member.
After the introductory period, your rate will be $3.75 per week, billed every four weeks.
After the introductory period, your rate will be $5.00 per week, billed every four weeks.
After the introductory period, your rate will be $8.75 per week, billed every four weeks.



Continue
Home delivery subscribers get free access
Promotional offers for new subscribers only. Smartphone and tablet apps are not supported on all devices. NYTimes.com + Smartphone Apps, NYTimes.com + Tablet Apps and All Digital Access subscriptions do not include e-reader editions, Times Premier content or digital versions of The New York Times Crossword. Prices shown are in U.S. dollars. We reserve the right to modify the type and availability of any digital product at any time. Other restrictions apply.
Home delivery subscribers get free access





Home Delivery Rates
Get 50% off for 12 weeks, plus free, unlimited access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps.Go to Home Delivery Rates


Education Rates
Save 50% on unlimited access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps exclusively for educators and students. Go to Education Rates





More Subscription Options
More subscriptions from The Times
























Enjoy the ultimate insider experience with exclusive behind-the-scenes access. Just 99¢ for your first 4 weeks.
Unlimited access to the Opinion section on NYTimes.com.Just 99¢ for the first 12 weeks.
Learn how organizations can save with group access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps.
Give unlimited access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps for as low as $30.





Home Delivery



NYT Opinion



Times Premier



Education Rates



Corporate Rates



GiftSubscriptions





Frequently Asked Questions
What is a digital subscription? What do I get when I subscribe?

An unlimited New York Times digital subscription provides ongoing access to NYTimes.com from any computer or device, as well as access to apps on portable devices. When you subscribe, you’ll get access to articles and blog posts, as well as video, slide shows and other multimedia features.

Can I get a subscription to NYTimes.com only?

No. A digital subscription package gives you ongoing access to NYTimes.com on any computer or device, plus NYTimes apps for your smartphone and/or tablet, depending on the option you choose.

I get home delivery of the newspaper. Do I get free access?

Yes. Print subscribers to The New York Times get a free All Digital Access subscription. This package includes free, unlimited access to NYTimes.com on any device, as well as the full range of NYTimes apps for your smartphone (iPhone, BlackBerry, Windows Phone, Android-powered phones), and your tablet (iPad and Android-powered tablets). Print subscribers can share All Digital Access with a family member. Free, unlimited access is provided to all print subscribers, no matter what type of subscription you have (daily, weekday, Weekender, etc.). You’ll also qualify for free digital access if your home delivery is provided by a third party (rather than by The New York Times directly). NYTimes home delivery subscriptions do not include e-reader editions, Times Premier content or digital versions of  The New York Times Crossword.
To activate your digital subscription, you’ll need to connect your home delivery subscription to your NYTimes.com account. If you haven’t already done so, visit this page to connect your accounts.

Do you offer education and corporate discounts?

Yes. Our seat and site license programs allow schools, organizations and corporations to purchase digital access for multiple users at a group discount. To learn more, email groupsubs@nytimes.com or contact us online.
We also offer individual subscriptions at a discounted education rate. To learn more, click here.

Can I give a gift subscription to The Times?

Yes. To give unlimited access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps for as low as $30, click here.

What is the cancellation and refund policy?

You can cancel your subscription at any time. When you cancel, we will stop charging your account the following billing cycle. Each billing cycle is four weeks, so your unlimited access will continue for the remainder of the current four-week period.
View the full cancellation and refund policy >>

What if I don’t want to subscribe — can I still read NYTimes.com for free?

Visitors can enjoy 10 free articles (including blog posts, slide shows and other multimedia features) each calendar month on NYTimes.com, as well as unrestricted access to browse the home page, section fronts, blog fronts and classifieds. Your free, limited access resets every month: at the beginning of each calendar month, you’ll once again be able to view 10 free articles for that month.
NYTimes apps are free to download and install. After downloading an app, you can read 10 articles each month for free. At the beginning of each calendar month, another 10 articles will be available for free.
For nonsubscribers, articles from the New York Times archives from 1923 through 1980 are $3.95 each. Views of archived articles outside that date range are free but still count toward the 10-article monthly limit.


View our complete FAQ »






Copyright© 2014
The New York Times Company
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Feedback
Help



















