Powerful Typhoon Slams Into Philippines 
Powerful Typhoon Slams Into Philippines


















		View mobile site	



 













































January 25, 2015

Huffpost WorldPost






		Edition: U.S.

Show/Hide





Brasil BR




Canada CA




Deutschland DE




España ES




France FR




Ελλάδα (Greece) GR




India IN




Italia IT




日本 (Japan) JP




한국 (Korea) KR




Maghreb MG




United Kingdom UK




United States US










 




Follow





Newsletters





Get WorldPostNewsletters
Email address

Enter Email Address









Huffington Post Search





Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search




























iOS app
Android app
More








Desktop Alerts
 Log in
Create Account








$USERNAME




Desktop Notifications


Profile


Settings


                                                Logout                                            

















FRONT PAGE


Politics








Steve King: I Was Being 'Kind' By Referring To Obama's Guest As 'Deportable'
1K




Ben Carson Appeals To Republicans In Iowa
0




Sarah Palin 'Seriously Interested' In Running For President In 2016
0




Recovered Film Gives An Amazing First Look At Scenes From World War II
78




Bernie Sanders Got Republicans To Make His Argument For Universal Health Care
698




Go to Politics




More in Politics

Pollster
Politics Blog
Off The Bus
Election Maps
Pollster



You Might Also Like

WorldPost
Green
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Gay Voices







Business








States Where The Middle Class Is Dying
0




How The Uber Economy Can Become A Race To The Bottom
0




This Is The Ultimate Routine For A Perfect Work Day
81




This CEO Fought For Better Wages At His Company. Guess What Happened.
39




Saudi Prince: Oil Will Never Be $100 A Barrel Again
271




Go to Business




More in Business

Small Biz
Money



You Might Also Like

WorldPost
Tech
Media
Arts
Sports
Weird News
Smarter Ideas
Urban Progress







Media








Sports Illustrated Lays Off Entire Photo Staff
124




Conservative PAC Slams Liberal Media Bias, MSNBC In New Ad
288




Seth Meyers Pokes Fun At CNN And Its 'Wild Guesses'
5




Al Sharpton Pokes Fun At Infamous Teleprompter Flub
21




NYT Editor: Media Failed After 9/11, Hopes Next Snowden Comes To Them
33




Go to Media




More in Media

Eat The Press
Calderone: The Backstory



You Might Also Like

Entertainment
TV
Comedy
Arts
Books
Religion
Moviefone







Green








Northeast Braces For Colossal Snowstorm
29




Winter Storm Coats Northeast With Snow, Freezing Rain
2




Massive Swell Hits Hawaii, Entire State Gets Stoked
6




Some Homes Near Oil Spill Report Dark Ooze Coming Out Of Taps
6




Significant Winter Storm Bears Down On The Northeast
17




Go to Green




More in Green

Energy
Climate Change
Animals
Green Tech
Green Holiday



You Might Also Like

Politics
Food
WorldPost
Science
Healthy Living







Tech








Standalone HBO Could Inspire Millions To Ditch Cable, Survey Says
70




Microsoft Exec Reveals 'Wow' Technology
5




Illinois Is Not Actually Requiring Students To Hand Over Their Facebook Passwords
7




Netflix CEO Says ‘Marco Polo' Is A Hit, And We'll Never Know Otherwise
127




Taking A Break From Technology Can Get Your Creative Juices Flowing
1




Go to Tech




More in Tech

TEDWeekends
Social Media



You Might Also Like

Small Biz
Green
Science
NY
SF
Smarter Ideas
TechCrunch
Engadget







Arts








The World's Darkest Children's Book Illustrator Receives Long Overdue Exhibition
4




Hilarious Vintage Posters Illustrate The Etiquette Of Movie-Going In 1912
9




18 Outstanding Young Photographers From The Arab World
10




The Story Behind The Artworks In New York City Ballet's Home Theater
0




Female Architects' Inspiring Words Of Wisdom For Young Women In The Field
0




Go to Arts




More in Arts

Painting
Film
Design
Photography
Theater
Architecture



You Might Also Like

Books
NY
Los Angeles







Travel








9 Definitive Reasons Why You Should NOT Move To The Caribbean
300




Now Is The Best Time To Visit Europe. Here's Where To Go.
12




Want To Sleep In This Guy's Trunk For $85 A Night?
2




Go to Travel




More in Travel

Travel Video
Destinations
Themed Guides
TSA
Airlines



You Might Also Like

Food
Arts
World
GPS for the Soul
Recipes







Women








17 Changes Every Woman Goes Through In Her Late 20s
22




Emma Watson Says Women's Potential Is 'Astonishingly Untapped' In Davos Speech
17




The Funniest Tweets From Women This Week
0




This Is What Masculinity Really Means To Men
55




Men And Women Prefer Egalitarian Relationships -- If Policies Support Them
5




Go to Women




More in Women

Love & Sex
Career & Money
Women's Health



You Might Also Like

Style
Weddings
Divorce
Parents
Healthy Living
Black Voices
Latino Voices







Religion








Here Are The Least Bible-Minded Cities In The U.S.
35




Christian Rock Band's Co-founder Is Now An Atheist
763




Baptist Minister In Hot Water Over Comments On Ten Commandments
193




Word Of Caution On 'Oldest Gospel Found In A Mummy Mask'
273




Muslim Woman Sues Police For Forcing Her To Remove Hijab
586




Go to Religion




More in Religion

Buddhism
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Judaism



You Might Also Like

Arts
World
Healthy Living
Impact
GPS for the Soul









HuffPost Live







Next
Top Stories For Monday, Jan. 26






Next
DAVOS: The Key Takeaways






Tomorrow
Finding Pleasure In Weight Loss






Tomorrow
White House Promotes Rape Documentary 






Later
'Ace of Cakes' Baker Duff Goldman LIVE




Go to Huffpost Live



All Sections






News

Politics
WorldPost
Business
Small Business
Money
Media
Sports
Education
Crime
Weird News
Good News



Entertainment

Entertainment
Celebrity
Comedy
Arts & Culture
Books
TV



Life & Style

Healthy Living
GPS for the Soul
Style
Home
Taste
Weddings
Travel
Parents
Divorce
Huff/Post 50
Marlo Thomas
OWN
Dr. Phil



Tech & Science

Tech
Science
Green
Code



Voices

Women
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Voces (en español)
Gay Voices
Religion
College
Teen
Impact



Local

Chicago
DC
Denver
Detroit
Hawaii
Los Angeles
Miami
New York
San Francisco





Our Mobile Apps:

iOS
Android
HuffPost Live (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (Android)










WorldPost


Berggruen Institute on Governance


ChinaFile





























Alleged ISIS Video Claims Japanese Hostage Was Executed, Issues New Demand For Second

2015-01-24 12:53:48







What Greece's Election Means For The Rest Of The World

2015-01-23 08:36:55







Why Obama Is Going to India

2015-01-24 17:52:05







Greek Leftists Take Early Lead In Historic Election

2015-01-25 07:11:29







Female Protester Shot Dead At Leftist Party March In Cairo

2015-01-24 13:15:02







Syriza Leads Final Polls Before Greek Election

2015-01-24 14:40:16







HuffPost Exclusive: Greece Pre-Election Poll

2015-01-23 19:19:02







Fighting In Ukraine Surges To Worst Level In Months

2015-01-24 09:10:42







Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah Dead

2015-01-22 17:59:27







New Saudi King Names Heirs And Promises Stability

2015-01-23 08:16:51







Radical Left Set To Win Crucial Greek Election

2015-01-23 11:30:29







Meet Saudi Arabia's New King

2015-01-22 18:33:05







Argentina's President Says Death Of Prosecutor Was Not A Suicide

2015-01-22 09:09:00







PEGIDA Leader Resigns After Posting Hitler Photo

2015-01-21 09:45:00







Islamic Militants Celebrate Saudi King's Death

2015-01-23 08:55:56




Previous Story
Next Story






Powerful Typhoon Slams Into Philippines





 

                                             | 
			   			       By			                                                                   TERESA CEROJANO                                    







        Posted: 
            12/06/2014  9:20 am EST        


        Updated: 
            12/07/2014 12:59 am EST        



 









 
This image captured by the MODIS instrument aboard NASA's Terra satellite shows Typhoon Hagupit on Thursday, Dec. 4, 2014, at 02:10 UTC, as it approaches the Philippines. | ASSOCIATED PRESS 







Share






Tweet







Email





Comment













tumblr




stumble



reddit

 
















LEGAZPI, Philippines (AP) — Typhoon Hagupit knocked out power in entire coastal provinces, mowed down trees and sent more than 650,000 people into shelters, but no major damage or casualties have been reported as the storm weakened Sunday.Hagupit slammed into Eastern Samar province in the central Philippines late Saturday and lost strength as it barreled westward across a string of island provinces. It was packing maximum sustained winds of 140 kilometers (87 miles) per hour and gusts of 170 kph (106 mph), considerably weaker from its peak power but still a potentially deadly storm, according to forecasters.Traumatized by Typhoon Haiyan's massive death and destruction last year in the central region that's being partly whipped by Hagupit (pronounced HA'-goo-pit), more than 650,000 people readily fled to about 1,000 emergency shelters and safer ground. The government, backed by the 120,000-strong military, launched massive preparations to attain a zero-casualty target.

Nearly a dozen countries led by the United States and the European Union have pledged to help in case of a major disaster, disaster-response agency chief Alexander Pama said.Authorities were verifying reports of some deaths but none has been confirmed so far, Pama told a news conference.While authorities have expressed relief so far, they were quick to warn that Hagupit — Filipino for "smash" or "lash" — was still on course to barrel across three major central islands before starting to blow away Tuesday into the South China Sea.Several typhoon-lashed eastern villages isolated by downed telephone and power lines were out of contact, Welfare Secretary Dinky Soliman said."It's too early to tell," Philippine Red Cross Secretary-General Gwendolyn Pang told The Associated Press. "Let's cross our fingers that it will stay that way. It's too close to Christmas."In Tacloban city, where Haiyan's tsunami-like storm surges and killer winds left thousands of people dead and leveled entire villages, no deaths have been reported after it was grazed by Hagupit.Television footage showed shallow floods, damaged shanties and ripped off store signs and tin roofs Sunday, but the city of more than 200,000 people, which earned the pity of the world after  last year's devastation, appeared to have escaped any major damage.Rhea Estuna, a 29-year-old mother of one, fled to a Tacloban evacuation center as early as Thursday and waited in fear as Hagupit's wind and rains lashed the school, where she and her family sought refuge. When she peered outside Sunday, she said she saw a starkly different aftermath compared to the horror of Haiyan's aftermath."There were no bodies scattered on the road, no big mounds of debris," Estuna told AP by cellphone. "Thanks to God this typhoon wasn't as violent."Army troops deployed to supermarkets and major roads in provinces in the typhoon's path to prevent looting and chaos and clear debris, all of which slowed the government's response last year.Unlike in past years, many people readily left high-risk communities now, Soliman said."Haiyan was the best teacher of all," Soliman said. "People did not need much convincing to move to safety. In fact many of them volunteered to go."___Associated Press writers Oliver Teves and Jim Gomez in Manila, Philippines, contributed to this report.




Earlier on HuffPost:







Close








				   Typhoon Haiyan Aftermath (WARNING: GRAPHIC IMAGES)				  




of




























Stuffed toys are placed on a clothes line for drying along a road in Quinapundan town, Eastern Samar province, central Philippines on November 19, 2013. (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



A boy plays amongst the rubble in Tolosa District on November 19, 2013 in Leyte, Philippines. (Chris McGrath/Getty Images)



 A man throws debris onto a fire as he cleans up his home in Tanauan on November 19, 2013 in Leyte, Philippines. (Chris McGrath/Getty Images)



Market stall holders trade goods in Tacloban on November 19, 2013 in Leyte, Philippines. (Dan Kitwood/Getty Images)



Two broken palm trees stand snapped in half on the beach near Tananau on November 19, 2013 in Leyte, Philippines. (Dan Kitwood/Getty Images)



A man sits among uprooted  oconut trees and houses destroyed during the typhoon in a small settlement on the outskirts of Tacloban on November 19, 2013. (ODD ANDERSEN/AFP/Getty Images)



A crewman watches out the back hatch of a US Marines Osprey aircraft as it returns to Tacloban Airport on November 19, 2013.  (MARK RALSTON/AFP/Getty Images)



Mary Joy Ducusin holds his picture after finding her missing six year old son, British citizen Jairo Ben among the bodies brought to one of three mass burial sites where they so far have received more than one thousand typhoon victims in Tacloban on November 19, 2013. (ODD ANDERSEN/AFP/Getty Images)



Two boys on a bicycle covers their nose and mouths as they pass body bags with 170 dead collected from the rubble at the 'Cemetery of the hills', one of three mass burial sites where they so far have received one thousand typhoon victims in Tacloban on November 19, 2013.  (ODD ANDERSEN/AFP/Getty Images)



Children walk at the site of a bunker fuel spill in an area devastated by Super Typhoon Haiyan on the coast of Estancia in the province of Iloilo on November 18, 2013. (JAY DIRECTO/AFP/Getty Images)



An aerial view of the devastated district of Palo in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan on November 18, 2013 in Tacloban, Philippines. (Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)



An elderly man stands near fires used for light and to burn refuse in an area destroyed in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan on November 18, 2013 in Tacloban, Philippines. (Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)



Residents grab for aid dropped by helicopter in an area destroyed in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan on November 18, 2013 in Tacloban, Philippines. (Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)



Residents play basketball with a makeshift net in an area destroyed in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan on November 18, 2013 in Tacloban, Philippines. (Kevin Frayer/Getty Images)



The ECHO team first on the ground in rural Leyte province.



Devastation wrought by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.



A house destroyed by Typhoon Haiyan, which ripped through the Philippines Nov 8, 2013.



Aftermath of the destruction caused by Typhoon Haiyan.



Debris washed up clogs the coastline near the pier in the town of Guiuan in Eastern Samar province, central Philippines on November 11, 2013, four days after Typhoon Haiyan hit the country.  (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



Residents take a bath and wash their belongings next to debris along a road in Tacloban, on the eastern island of Leyte on November 10, 2013 after Super Typhoon Haiyan swept over the Philippines. (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



A resident covering his face with a mask rides past dead bodies littered along a road in Tacloban, on the eastern island of Leyte on November 10, 2013 after Super Typhoon Haiyan swept over the Philippines. (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



A resident cries as she related her ordeal at the height of Typhoon Haiyan in Tacloban City, Leyte province, central Philippines on November 10, 2013, three days after devastating Typhoon Haiyan hit the city on November 8. (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



Residents walk through debris and victim's bodies in Tacloban City, Leyte province, central Philippines on November 10, 2013, three days after devastating Typhoon Haiyan hit the city on November 8.(TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



Children cycles past a dead body on a street at Tacloban, eastern island of Leyte on November 10, 2013.  (NOEL CELIS/AFP/Getty Images)



Bodies wrapped in blankets are placed inside a damaged chapel Saturday, Nov. 9, 2013, a day after powerful Typhoon Haiyan slammed Tacloban city, in Leyte province, central Philippines. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez)



Residents walk by debris after powerful Typhoon Haiyan slammed into Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines on Saturday, Nov. 9, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



Tacloban Airport is covered by debris after powerful Typhoon Haiyan hit Tacloban city, in Leyte province in central Philippines, Saturday, Nov. 9, 2013. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez)



Residents look at bodies brought inside a damaged chapel Saturday, Nov. 9, 2013, a day after powerful Typhoon Haiyan slammed Tacloban city, in Leyte province in central Philippines. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez)



A house is engulfed by the storm surge brought about by powerful typhoon Haiyan that hit Legazpi city, Albay province Friday Nov.8, 2013 about 520 kilometers ( 325 miles) south of Manila, Philippines. (AP Photo/Nelson Salting)



Residents watch as others throw looted goods from a warehouse in the town of Guiuan, Eastern Samar province in the central Philippines on November 11, 2013, only days after Super Typhoon Haiyan devastated the town on November 8. (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



Residents watch as others throw looted goods from a warehouse in the town of Guiuan, Eastern Samar province in the central Philippines on November 11, 2013, only days after Super Typhoon Haiyan devastated the town on November 8. (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



Residents carry water-damaged sacks of rice from a rice warehouse in Tacloban in the eastern Philippine island of Leyte on November 11, 2013. (NOEL CELIS/AFP/Getty Images)



A military helicopter delivering relief food prepares to land at the airport next to broken coconut trees in the town of Guiuan in Eastern Samar province in the central Philippines on November 11, 2013 only days after Super Typhoon Haiyan devastated the town on November 8. (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



A young survivor rests on a pedicab surrounded by debris caused by Super Typhoon Haiyan in Tacloban in the eastern Philippine island of Leyte on November 11, 2013. (NOEL CELIS/AFP/Getty Images)



People walk amongst debris next to a ship washed ashore in the aftermath of Super Typhoon Haiyan at Anibong in Tacloban, eastern island of Leyte on November 11, 2013. (NOEL CELIS/AFP/Getty Images)



A resident who survived Typhoon Haiyan cries inside a stadium used as an evacuation centre in Tacloban, Leyte province, central Philippines on November 10, 2013, three days after devastating Typhoon Haiyan hit the city on November 8. (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



Residents push an improvised trolley loaded with an injured relative as they head for a medical station in Tacloban City, Leyte province,central Philippines on November 10, 2013, three days after devastating Typhoon Haiyan hit the city on November 8.  (TED ALJIBE/AFP/Getty Images)



Residents carry a mattres taken from a hotel in Palo, eastern island of Leyte on November 10, 2013, three days after devastating Super Typhoon Haiyan hit the area on November 8. (NOEL CELIS/AFP/Getty Images)



Children peek out from their makeshift shelter in Tacloban, on the eastern island of Leyte on November 10, 2013. (NOEL CELIS/AFP/Getty Images)



A Typhoon Haiyan survivor burns debris in front of the ruins of his home in the village of Marabut, Samar Island, Philippines, Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/David Guttenfelder)



A Typhoon Haiyan survivor carries a child wrapped in a towel as he watches a helicopter landing to bring aid to the destroyed town of Guiuan, Samar Island, Philippines, Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/David Guttenfelder)



A Filipino woman embraces her good luck dwarf statue salvaged from her destroyed home in an area devastated by Typhoon Haiyan in Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines on Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



As the sun sets, it lights the sky over the area devastated by Typhoon Haiyan, in Tacloban, central Philippines, Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



U.S. military personnel carry relief supplies to a waiting U.S. Navy Seahawk helicopter from the USS George Washington at the airport landing zone in Tacloban, central Philippines, Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



Despite living in the massive typhoon aftermath, young girls get to play in a dog house in Tacloban, central Philippines, Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



A Filipino pedicab driver pedals past damaged homes at typhoon hit Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines on Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



American military personnel load relief aid on to a US Navy Seahawk helicopter from the USS George Washington carrier at a landing zone a the airport in Tacloban, central Philippines, Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Wally Santana)



A box of noodles donated by Filipino workers is packed to ship to the survivors of Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines at an express company in a Hong Kong shopping mall Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Kin Cheung)



Typhoon survivors charge their mobile phones, flash lights at a street in Tacloban, central Philippines, Friday Nov. 15. 2013. (AP Photo/Vincent Yu)



Typhoon survivors who have been waiting to be evacuated for days at the airport in Tacloban, reach out for biscuits distributed by Philippines soldiers, in Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines, Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Wong Maye-E)



A Filipino trooper distributes water to survivors waiting for a military flight to Manila as they flee typhoon hit Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines on Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



Typhoon survivor Rodrigo Villajos uses a figure of the Our Lady of Manaoag to shield him from the heat of the sun as he waits with others for the next military plane flight to Manila at Tacloban airport in Leyte province, central Philippines Friday, Nov. 15, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



A man and woman wash hospital stretchers they retrieved from typhoon debris, at the Divine Word hospital which still operates without electrical power on the 7th day of the Typhoon Haiyan disaster in Tacloban, on the eastern island of Leyte on  November 15, 2013. (PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AFP/Getty Images)



Jennifer Purga checks on her husband as she keeps him alive by manualy pumping air into his lungs following his leg amputation that led to an infection, at the Divine Word hospital which still operates without electrical power on the 7th day of the Typhoon Haiyan disaster in Tacloban, on the eastern island of Leyte on November 15, 2013.(PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AFP/Getty Images)



TACLOBAN, PHILIPPINES - NOVEMBER 15: A mass grave for the dead is seen following the recent typhoon in Tacloban on November 15, 2013 in Tacloban, Philippines. (Jeoffrey Maitem/Getty Images)



A man cooks food at the Tacloban Airport in the early hours of the morning on November 15, 2013 in Leyte, Philippines. (Photo by Chris McGrath/Getty Images)



Dominador Artoge holds his duck which he rescued as it swam ashore following Friday's typhoon that lashed Tacloban city in central Philippines Thursday Nov. 14, 2013. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez)



Volunteers repack food relief for typhoon victims at a warehouse Thursday, Nov. 14, 2013, in Tacloban city, Leyte province in central Philippines. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez)



A typhoon survivor sits inside the Tacloban City Convention Center known as the Astrodome Thursday, Nov. 14, 2013, where hundreds of displaced typhoon survivors have set up makeshift living quarters throughout the complex's once bustling shops and popular basketball court. (AP Photo/Vincent Yu)



A young boy looks on as firemen carry victims of typhoon Haiyan at a mass burial site in Tacloban, Leyte province, Central Philippines on Thursday, Nov. 14, 2013. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)



Typhoon victims carry a panel of wood to build a shack in Tacloban on November 19, 2013. The United Nations has confirmed at least 4,500 killed in the disaster, which brought five-metre (16-foot) waves to Tacloban, flattening nearly everything in their path as they swept hundreds of metres across the low-lying land. AFP PHOTO/ Nicolas ASFOURI        (Photo credit should read NICOLAS ASFOURI/AFP/Getty Images)









 Share


 Tweet








✖











Advertisement



























Share this
✖ close



 Current Slide			




 




More:


Typhoon Philippines


Typhoon Haiyan


Philippines Typhoon 2014


Typhoon Hagupit


Philippines Typhoon Hagupit


2014 Typhoon Philippines


2014 Philippines Typhoon


Philippines


Natural Disasters


Extreme Weather


Typhoon Ruby





Suggest a correction

















Around the Web
 Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Update: Philippines Landfall Ahead Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) - The Weather Channel Philippines braces for Super Typhoon Hagupit - USA Today BBC News - Powerful Typhoon Hagupit nears Philippines - BBC.com Philippines typhoon - Los Angeles Times Trees felled, power cut as typhoon hits Philippines - Yahoo News Typhoon Hagupit barrels toward Philippines - CNN.com Typhoon Hagupit: More than half a million Philippines residents flee ... Hagupit restrengthens to super typhoon; half a million Philippines residents ... Philippines Braces for Arrival of Typhoon Hagupit Philippines Typhoon Hagupit evacuation stepped up Typhoon Hagupit is Expected to Strike Philippines 




 


Click here to view Conversations


Conversations




















Suggested For You









FOLLOW HUFFPOST


Email



Email Address



Please check the checkbox to indicate your consent

Options


The Morning Email



WorldPost




                                        Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
                                      




Facebook



HuffPost



 
WorldPost

 





Twitter




HuffPost

Follow


WorldPost

Follow





Google Plus



HuffPost



WorldPost








RSS



Most Popular on HuffPost


Latest News


WorldPost


All RSS / Feeds





Phone



Available on the App Store


Android App on Google Play


Get it at Blackberry App World
















Watch Aziz Ansari Get Ridiculous With Grover on Sesame Street
 





Led Zeppelin Loses First Round in ‘Stairway to Heaven’ Lawsuit
 





Tinder Thinks You’ll Pay to Find a Match. Swipe Right?
 





Time - Politics












































Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search









Advertise


Log In


Make HuffPost your Home Page


RSS


Careers


FAQ




User Agreement


Privacy


Comment Policy


About Us


About Our Ads


Contact Us




Copyright ©2015 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.

Part of HPMG News














 









Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
* Required



*

*







* What kind of error is this?

Choose an option
Factual or typographical
Comment moderation problem
Rights and permissions
Other







* What is the correction?
0 count


Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)






* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg                        







Sign me up for The Morning Email











Thanks for your report!

















 
 

