Quick Response in the Aftermath of Hagupit — Where we work — Plan InternationalQuick Response in the Aftermath of Hagupit — Where we work — Plan International
[skip to content]


Sponsor a child
Media

Resources

Contact

Jobs

FAQ




Plan InternationalPlan Philippines
Plan Asia
Plan Home



You are here:
Home »

Where we work »
              
           
      

Asia »
              
           
      

Philippines »
              
           
      

What we do  »
              
           
      

Our successes »
              
           
      

          
              
              Quick Response in the Aftermath of Hagupit
           
      




About Plan in Philippines


What we do 

Our successes


Typhoon Haiyan response


The Youth Reporter Project



Where we work


What you can do 






                
                 
              

Info


Quick Response in the Aftermath of Hagupit

Bienvinida, a Plan community volunteer, sits on a bench on the site where her house used to be.


Made only from wood, bamboo and nipa shingles, the houses of Noralyn and Bienvinida were no match to Hagupit’s fierce winds as the typhoon lashed Oras in Eastern Samar province on the night of 6 December 2014.
Oras is a town adjacent to Dolores where Category 2 Typhoon Hagupit (known locally as Ruby) made its landfall with winds of at least 175 kilometres per hour. While it was not as strong as Typhoon Haiyan that battered the province only last year, Hagupit still caused significant damage especially to thousands of families living in unstable houses near the shore. According to the latest data from the Regional Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council, Hagupit affected 78,700 families in Eastern Samar alone.
Living in vulnerability
Noralyn’s family survives on the little income from the fresh catch of seafood her husband sells every day, as well as from their occasional coconut harvest.
But where they source out their livelihood also exposes Noralyn’s family to high risks. Their house sits precariously a few meters away from the shore and is forced to endure strong cyclone winds from the open sea and deadly storm surges every typhoon season.
Days before the typhoon hit, Noralyn’s family already evacuated to a school in the nearby barangay (village). She used what little money she had to stock up on food and supplies that could sustain them for three days.
“We don’t know where to get provisions for the coming days now that our coconut trees are damaged,” says Noralyn, who has eight children.
Characteristic of a Filipino, Noralyn hides her worries with nervous laughter and jokes. Looking at her totally damaged house, she quips, “We were almost done building our house. But Ruby came and finished it off!”


Anxious for the future
Also from Noralyn’s village, Bienvenida is also struggling from the same situation. Still reeling from her experience during Haiyan last year, Bienvenida and her family prepared for Typhoon Hagupit, but they were forced to stay in the school in their village as the other evacuation sites were already too crowded.
“We were able to prepare early. We packed our belongings and tried to secure them inside the house,” she says. “But the typhoon tore our house down so everything got soaked, including the children’s textbooks and school supplies.”
Responding to vital needs
Responding swiftly to the needs of affected communities, Plan quickly conducted assessments in areas heavily hit by Typhoon Hagupit, including the provinces of Eastern Samar, Northern Samar, Western Samar and Masbate.
Plan immediately distributed hygiene kits, water kits and shelter kits in Beinvenida and Noralyn’s village, which is also one of the Plan-supported communities in Oras.
While providing life-saving needs, Plan also focused on providing psychosocial support to young survivors of the typhoon. While the adults received the kits and listened to brief discussions on hygiene promotion, Plan staff trained on child protection led games and storytelling activities to provide respite and support to children in the affected communities.
Future challenges
A week after Hagupit made landfall, many people have begun returning to their homes, trying to rebuild their lives in their typhoon-battered communities. While the weather has been fair since, challenges remain as news of another low pressure area looms among families living in makeshift houses and whose means of livelihood were affected.
Plan’s response continues, monitoring and providing humanitarian support and working with the communities in the long term to help them become more prepared, adaptive and resilient to disasters.






Share this page:

Facebook


del.icio.us


Digg


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


My Space



        Send to a friend
      






Support our work
Sponsor a childMake a donation


Follow us





Youth Reporter Project



Latest items


Plan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath


Typhoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas




Contact Plan
Plan Philippines4th Bloomingdale BuildingNo. 205 Salcedo StreetLegaspi Village, Makati CityPhilippinesTel: (+632) 813 0030 up to 33
 

     






                
                 
              




© Copyright 2015 Plan


Sitemap


Accessibility


Terms and conditions


Privacy and Cookies


Child Protection





