News

News
http://plan-international.org

  

daily
1
2009-04-16T12:58:31Z






















Plan responds to priority needs of children in typhoon aftermath
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-responds-to-priority-needs-of-children-in-typhoon-aftermath
    A week since Typhoon Hagupit made landfall, Plan continues its emergency response in hardest-hit areas in the Philippines.




Plan trucks bring in relief items to Oras town in Eastern Samar
Water kits and hygiene kits ready for distribution in Oras
Remedios, 72 and lives on her own, stands in front of her totally damaged house in Oras
Plan gathers children in affected communities for games and storytelling activities
Psychosocial support is important for young survivors of the typhoon
Students in Mandaon, Masbate province inspect the damage in their school building
Plan staff and community members work together to prepare the tarpaulin sheets
Plan provided shelter kits for the damaged school in Mandaon
Tarpaulin sheets will be useful for the damaged school in Mandaon




13 December 2014: A week since Typhoon Hagupit made landfall in eastern Philippines, Plan International continues its emergency response in hardest-hit areas, where crucial needs in shelter, education, protection, water, hygiene and sanitation still remain.
Plan expects to extend its typhoon response for the next six months, covering 20,000 families or 100,000 individuals in the provinces of Western Samar, Northern Samar and Eastern Samar—areas where Plan has long-term presence through its child-centred community development programmes on the ground.
The response—with an initial funding requirement of $US3.5 million—will prioritise the needs of affected children and their communities for immediate relief, shelter, safe water, education assistance and psychosocial support. These are among the most-pressing needs that Plan has reported through rapid initial assessments done with the national and local government and humanitarian agency partners.
“In the aftermath of a big typhoon like this, we are very concerned about how children are coping. With them in mind, our response measures are designed to help these young survivors regain a sense of normalcy,” says Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin van der Hor.
“We want to ensure that affected children have access to clean water and hygiene facilities in their communities to prevent the spread of illnesses. We also want school to resume as soon possible, so we are looking into giving education assistance by providing school supplies and learning materials for students and setting up temporary learning spaces in heavily damaged schools.”
“As a child-centred organisation, we can’t emphasise enough the importance of psychosocial support for boys and girls who live through storm after storm every year,” van der Hor adds. “We believe that a holistic response should also attend to the emotional well-being and protection of affected children.”
This week, Plan has distributed hygiene kits, water kits and shelter kits that will benefit thousands in Eastern Samar and Masbate provinces.
As of Wednesday evening Philippine time, Hagupit (locally know as Ruby) has exited the country, leaving in its wake 2.9 million affected people (694,300 families), an official death toll of 19, more than 47,000 houses damaged and an estimated US$28 million (1.3 billion pesos) in total damages and losses in agriculture and infrastructure, according to latest government data.
For the past few days, more than half of the evacuees have returned to their homes, while some 788,500 people still remain in evacuation sites.
For more information about Plan’s work in the Philippines, including previous disaster responses, go to http://plan-international.org/philippines
Notes for editors:
 

Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin Van der Hor and Emergency Response Manager Richard Sandison are available for interview by mobile phone. Deputy Country Director for Programs Marco Savio is also available for interviews in French and Italian. To arrange interviews and for all other media inquiries, please call Cynthia Arce, Communication Manager, Mobile: +63(0)917 832 5723, or Chris Sibugon, Communication Officer, Mobile +63 (0) 9175145738.
Plan International is one of the Philippines' longest-serving humanitarian and development INGOs, with a special focus on helping marginalised children across the country to access their rights to health, education, livelihoods, disaster risk management and protection.
Plan in the Philippines has also responded to numerous emergencies across the disaster-prone country by providing food, healthcare, clean drinking water and sanitation, shelter, temporary schooling and psychosocial support. Most recently, Plan has responded to the 2013 Typhoon Haiyan which killed more than 6,200 people and affected more than 14 million. Plan also responded to the 2013 Bohol earthquake, 2012 Typhoon Bopha, 2011 Typhoon Sendong and the ongoing conflict in Mindanao.
]]>
No publisher
Lawrence Sandiego

Philippines
2014-12-13T06:37:45Z
Page


Typhoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-responds-to-worst-hit-areas-after-hagupit
    Plan International emergency response teams are on the ground and  distributing pre-positioned relief items in communities hit by Typhoon Hagupit.




Families sheltering in a school. Typhoon Hagupit forced 1 million people to evacuate their homes.
Plan pre-positioned relief items in communities in the typhoon's path.
Debris from the storm littered roads in Tacloban.
Many electrical posts have been damaged.
A family returning to their home after sheltering in an evacuation centre.
Plan emergency teams are assessing needs in some of the worst-hit areas.
Vital pre-positioned relief items - including shelter, water and hygiene kits - are now being distributed to affected families.



9 December 2014: Plan International emergency response teams are on the ground in the Philippines conducting quick assessments and distributing pre-positioned relief items in communities worst-hit by Typhoon Hagupit.
The typhoon, known locally as Ruby, has weakened further as it continues to head out of Philippine territory, with the state weather bureau lifting storm signals for the whole country.
The storm left in its wake more than 20 casualties, a million people evacuated from their homes and significant damage to infrastructure and agriculture.
Flooding and landslides
In Eastern Visayas, a region still recovering from last year’s super typhoon Haiyan, Plan teams report that electricity and communications are still out or intermittent in many areas. Landslides and damaged roads are hampering relief efforts in the northern towns of Eastern Samar province where Hagupit made landfall Saturday evening.
In Masbate province, where the typhoon lingered longest for almost a whole day, flooded roads and damaged bridges make it difficult for response teams to reach affected towns right after the storm.
“Now the real work begins,” says Carin van der Hor, Plan International Country Director for the Philippines.
“After being well prepared for Hagupit, Plan teams based in worst-hit provinces have started making rounds as early as Sunday to check the situation in affected areas and assess the most-pressing needs of typhoon survivors.”
Distributing aid
Plan teams in Tacloban, Borongan, Catbalogan, Catarman and Masbate are also coordinating with the national and local governments and partner aid agencies in conducting the assessments, to ensure that results feed into cohesive and efficient typhoon response efforts.
“Plan has also begun distributing pre-positioned relief in affected communities. These include 3,499 shelter kits 5,500 water kits, 5,500 hygiene kits and 4,100 infant kits enough for 14,499 families or 76,595 individuals,” says van der Hor.
“The enormous effort of the government evacuating hundreds of thousands of people from unsafe zones prevented the potential loss of many lives. Plan will ensure that this life-saving measure will be complemented as we begin timely assessment and distribution of pre-positioned relief items in affected communities.”
Aside from vital aid, Plan, as a child-centred humanitarian organisation, also ensures that affected young boys and girls are protected from harm and their unique needs addressed.
Plan and the Philippine government’s Climate Change Commission are partners in advocating child-centred disaster risk reduction and management in the country.
Find out more about Plan’s work in the PhilippinesMedia contacts:

Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin Van der Hor and Emergency Response Manager Richard Sandison are available for interview by mobile phone. Deputy Country Director for Programs Marco Savio is also available for interviews in French and Italian. To arrange interviewsand for all other media inquiries, please call Cynthia Arce, Communication Manager, Mobile: +63 (0) 917 832 5723, or Chris Sibugon, Communication Officer, Mobile +63 (0) 917 514 5738. 

 ]]>
No publisher
Simon Corrall

2014-12-09T09:05:00Z
Page


 Plan responding as Philippines typhoon continues destructive path
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-responding-as-philippines-typhoon-continues-destructive-path
    Plan International is assessing and responding to the impact of today’s powerful typhoon wherever possible, even as the year’s biggest storm continues to barrel down on the central Philippines. 

Flooding in Tacloban this morning after Typhoon Hagupit
7 December 2014: Plan International is assessing and responding to the impact of today’s powerful typhoon wherever possible, even as the year’s biggest storm continues to barrel down on the central Philippines.
The slow-moving storm at 15 km/h remains highly threatening to millions despite its reduced wind strength of 140 km/h, according to latest state weather forecasts.
Typhoon Hagupit has made its first landfall in the town of Dolores, Eastern Samar province yesterday at 9:15pm (Philippine time). Its second landfall was recorded 11am Sunday in Cataingan, Masbate province and is now heading west-northwest towards the provinces of Romblon and Mindoro.
Emergency relief
“Our staff are highly trained and experienced in emergency response. We already have prepositioned relief items in the affected areas. These include 3,499 shelter kits (tarpaulin sheets and rope), 5,500 water kits, 5,500 hygiene kits and 4,100 infant kits that will benefit 14,499 families or 76,595 individuals,” says Carin van der Hor, Plan International’s Country Director in the Philippines.
“In an emergency, our first response focuses on life-saving needs, including water and sanitation, but we also look at the bigger picture, working to make sure that children are safe from harm and able to return to school,” she says.
“First thing tomorrow and should roads be passable, we are deploying our assessment team based in the Visayas to conduct a rapid needs assessment in Eastern Samar, particularly in the towns of Dolores, Hernani, Oras and Balangkayan,” van der Hor adds.
Vital support
Plan International is one of the Philippines’ longest-serving humanitarian and development organisations, operating across the country and with staff on standby in Tacloban, Borongan, Catbalogan, Catarman, Masbate, Mindoro and Manila. Staff in the affected regions have been able to help report the following:

Intense winds have caused infrastructure damage in Borongan in Eastern Samar. Communications are down, and the city is without power and water. No official reports on any casualties as yet. Significant road damage has isolated the city from other towns.
At least 4,000 families evacuated in Northern Samar province, where 20 of 24 towns are at risk of flooding, while 16 towns are at risk of landslides.
In Western Samar province, 20 towns and 2 cities are at risk of flooding.
The province of Sorsogon has evacuated 173,000 people.
Power still down in Tacloban. Though the typhoon spared the city, there is significant damage to infrastructure caused by very strong winds. No reported casualties in Tacloban according to Mayor Alfred Romualdez.
Power is out in Masbate since early this morning. Almost zero visibility in the provincial capital due to very strong winds and rains.

Eyewitness accounts
Some of the Plan staff on the ground also reported their experience and eyewitness accounts of surviving the storm.
“The typhoon was very strong and took its time when it made landfall in Eastern Samar,” says Willy Novela, Plan’s emergency response team leader in Borongan. “Some roads were heavily flooded but the waters immediately receded. The city’s biggest hotel was packed with evacuees. The hotelbuilding sustained damage from strong winds and rains.”
In Tacloban, Plan communications officer Christelyn Sibugon described the typhoon’s strong winds as “howling, wailing.”
“Though the typhoon spared the city, there is still noticeable impact - like debris from fallen signboards and roofing sheets - and most of all, the memories of Typhoon Haiyan were brought back to mind among children and their families who have yet to fully recover from last year’s disaster,” she says.
The typhoon is expected to remain in the Philippines for as many as 2 more days, leaving the country on Tuesday or Wednesday.
For more information about Plan’s work in the Philippines, including previous disaster responses, go to plan-international.org/philippines 
Notes for editors:
 

Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin Van der Hor and Emergency Response Manager Richard Sandison are available for interview by mobile phone. Deputy Country Director for Programs Marco Savio is also available for interviews in French and Italian. To arrange interviewsand for all other media inquiries, please call Cynthia Arce, Communication Manager, Mobile: +63(0)917 832 5723, or Chris Sibugon, Communication Officer, Mobile +63 (0) 9175145738. 
Plan International is one of the Philippines' longest-serving humanitarianand development INGOs, with a special focus on helping marginalised children across the country to access their rights to health, education, livelihoods, disaster risk management and protection.
Plan in the Philippines has also responded to numerous emergencies across the disaster-prone country by providing food, healthcare, clean drinking water and sanitation, shelter, temporary schooling and psychosocial support. Most recently, Plan has responded to the 2013 Typhoon Haiyan which killed more than 6,200 people and affected more than 14 million. Plan also responded to the 2013 Bohol earthquake, 2012 Typhoon Bopha, 2011 Typhoon Sendong and the ongoing conflict in Mindanao.
]]>
No publisher
Simon Corrall

Philippines
2014-12-07T12:35:00Z
Page


Plan on the ground, ready to respond as typhoon hits the Philippines
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-on-the-ground-ready-to-respond-as-typhoon-hits-the-philippines
    Plan International is on the ground and ready to respond to Typhoon Hagupit, one of the biggest Pacific storms of 2014.

Relief items such as water and hygiene kits, shelter kits and infant kits are already prepositioned in Plan offices.
6 December 2014: Plan International is on the ground and ready to respond to Typhoon Hagupit, which is expected to slam into the Philippines Saturday evening local time, bringing with it destructive winds of up to 230 km/h and storm surges as high as a one-story building.
The typhoon, known locally as Ruby, is expected to make landfall over Eastern Samar, where Typhoon Haiyan hit last year. It is expected to follow a similar path to Haiyan, the biggest storm ever to make landfall and which killed thousands and left swathes of the Philippines devastated. The latest typhoon is expected to affect around 13 million people.
Around 24,000 families in Eastern Samar have now been evacuated, and power outage has been reported over Tacloban City, now described by local Plan staff as “a ghost town”. Tacloban is the biggest city in the region, and bore the brunt of last year’s devastation at the hands of Typhoon Haiyan.
Most of Tacloban has been without power since mid-afternoon today.
Plan has prepositioned relief items on the island, including thousands of water kits, hygiene kits, tarpaulins and infant kits.
“Obviously we have been here before and we are ready for Typhoon Hagupit. We have prepositioned aid right where it will be needed after the storm and we stand ready to respond to any devastation or destruction it might bring,” says Carin van der Hor, Plan International’s Country Director.
“This typhoon is the last thing the people of the Philippines, particularly Samar, need. We have all worked so hard to get back on our feet after the devastation of Typhoon Haiyan and have made enormous progress. It’s heartbreaking to think that so much of that work is threatened,” van der Hor says.
Plan is also concerned about the children who will be caught up in the impact of Typhoon Hagupit.
“The children of the Philippines have already been through so much, and it looks like they are about to experience another frightening and devastating typhoon,” Van der Hor says. “High levels of stress in the aftermath of a natural disaster can affect children’s development, and there is little more stressful than a major typhoon just a year after experiencing the biggest storm ever to make landfall.”
“The children who went through Haiyan are only just recovering and will need a great deal of extra support to ensure that this latest typhoon does not become a major setback for them.”
“We stand ready to come to the aid of children caught up in this typhoon. After Haiyan, we supported the recovery of hundreds of thousands of children and we are ready to continue that crucial work. No child deserves to go through something like this twice, and we will do all we can to help,” van der Hor says.
Plan International is one of the Philippines' longest-serving humanitarian and development organisations, with a special focus on helping marginalised children across the country to access their rights to health, education, livelihoods, disaster risk management and protection.
For more information about Plan’s work in the Philippines, including previous disaster responses, go to http://plan-international.org/philippines
Notes for Editors:
Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin van der Hor and Emergency Response Manager Richard Sandison are available for interview by mobile phone. Deputy Country Director for Programs Marco Savio is also available for interviews in French and Italian.
To arrange interviews and for all other media inquiries, please call:

Cynthia Arce, Communication Manager, +63 (0) 917 832 5723, in Manila
Chris Sibugon, Communication Officer, +63 (0) 917 514 5738, in Tacloban
]]>
No publisher
Lawrence Sandiego

2014-12-06T12:11:51Z
Page


Concern for children as Typhoon Hagupit nears landfall in the Philippines
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/concern-for-children-as-typhoon-hagupit-nears-landfall-in-the-philippines
    Concern remains high for children and communities in the Philippines with Typhoon Hagupit expected to make landfall.

Thousands headed for evacuation sites as Typhoon Hagupit aims for the Philippines.
5 December 2014: Concern remains high for children and communities in the Philippines with Typhoon Hagupit expected to hit the country on Saturday, says child rights organisation Plan International.
Hagupit (Typhoon Ruby in the Philippines) continues to be potentially devastating even though the winds associated with it have marginally reduced in strength.
Over the past 48 hours, Plan is preparing to respond to Hagupit, projected to make landfall around 5 pm local time on Saturday in the Eastern Visayas region. This is the same area that suffered major devastation brought by Typhoon Haiyan a little more than a year ago. Hagupit is expected to touch down in the island of Samar, generating storm surges of up to four metres.
Large parts of Tacloban have now been evacuated and people across the threatened regions have moved to higher ground.
Plan has already prepositioned relief items in the region, including tarpaulins, water kits, hygiene kits and kits for infants.
“The children of the Philippines have already been through so much, and it looks like they are about to experience another frightening and devastating typhoon,” says Carin van der Hor, Plan International’s Country Director.
“High levels of stress in the aftermath of a natural disaster can affect children’s development, and there is little more stressful than a major typhoon just a year after experiencing the biggest storm ever to make landfall,” van der Hor says.
“The children who went through Haiyan are only just recovering and will need a great deal of extra support to ensure that this latest typhoon does not become a major setback for them.”
“We stand ready to come to the aid of children caught up in this typhoon. After Haiyan, we supported the recovery of hundreds of thousands of children and we are ready to continue that crucial work. No child deserves to go through something like this twice, and we will do all we can to help,” van der Hor says.
With the weakening typhoon also slightly shrinking in diameter, the state weather bureau has reduced the number of critical provinces from 56 to 47. These include all Plan International programme areas which are still expected to experience powerful winds and intense rainfall.
Plan International is one of the Philippines' longest-serving humanitarian and development organisations, with a special focus on helping marginalised children across the country to access their rights to health, education, livelihoods, disaster risk management and protection.
For more information about Plan’s work in the Philippines, including previous disaster responses, go to http://plan-international.org/philippines
Notes for Editors:
Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin van der Hor and Emergency Response Manager Richard Sandison are available for interview by mobile phone. Deputy Country Director for Programs Marco Savio is also available for interviews in French and Italian.
To arrange interviews and for all other media inquiries, please call:

Cynthia Arce, Communication Manager, +63 (0) 917 832 5723, in Manila
Chris Sibugon, Communication Officer, +63 (0) 917 514 5738, in Tacloban
]]>
No publisher
Lawrence Sandiego

2014-12-06T01:35:00Z
Page


Plan International on Full Alert as Typhoon Hagupit Threatens Haiyan-Hit Areas
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-international-on-full-alert-as-typhoon-hagupit-threatens-haiyan-hit-areas
    A year after Typhoon Haiyan, Plan International is closely monitoring and is ready to respond to another strong typhoon.

Typhoon Hagupit is projected to affect communities recovering from last year's Typhoon Haiyan.
4 December 2014: More than a year after the onslaught of super typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines, Plan International is closely monitoring and is ready to respond to another strong typhoon poised to make landfall this weekend.
Typhoon Hagupit, locally known as ‘Ruby’, is expected to make landfall on Saturday and follow an almost identical path across multiple provinces in central Philippines that Haiyan took a year ago, according to recent state weather forecasts.
While not seen as strong as Haiyan, Typhoon Hagupit is still expected to cause damages to properties and agriculture and storm surges of up to 4 meters.
Fifty-six provinces are put under ‘critical’ alert by the national disaster risk reduction agency, with many areas, including 6 Plan International programme areas, expected to experience forceful winds and heavy to intense rainfall.
“Another typhoon is the last thing that they need,” says Carin van der Hor, Plan International’s Country Director in the Philippines, of the people in communities recovering from Haiyan.
“Though children in these areas have become more aware and more prepared for storms, they remain worried and fearful of the catastrophic aftermath of such calamities.”
Plan has helped more than 1.3 million people in 1,300 villages who survived last year’s devastation from Typhoon Haiyan.
“We are monitoring Typhoon Hagupit and keeping updated on all developments. Our Plan emergency response staff who are already on the ground are always ready to make a quick assessment that can guide us if there is a need to respond and if so, how best we can respond.”
In preparation for an aid response, Plan has pre-positioned in Eastern Samar water kits and hygiene kits that will benefit 15,000 individuals, tarpaulins for shelter of about 5,000 people, and more than 3,400 infant kits.
Plan staff are also increasing preparedness among communities by coordinating with local disaster risk reduction and management councils and disseminating messages and information for preparedness.
“We know from more than 50 years of experience working in the Philippines that when disasters hit, they always hit the most vulnerable the hardest. Children are always badly affected by disasters like this so we always work to ensure that girls, boys and their caregivers are prioritized for immediate assistance,” Van der Hor adds.
Plan International is one of the Philippines' longest-serving aid and development organizations, with a special focus on helping marginalized children across the country to access their rights to health, education, livelihoods, disaster risk management and protection.
For more information about Plan’s work in the Philippines, including previous disaster responses, go to http://plan-international.org/philippines
Notes for Editors:
Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin van der Hor and Emergency Response Manager Richard Sandison are available for interview by mobile phone. Deputy Country Director for Programs Marco Savio is also available for interviews in French and Italian. 
To arrange interviews and for all other media inquiries, please call: 

Cynthia Arce, Communication Manager, +63 (0) 917 832 5723, in Manila
Chris Sibugon, Communication Officer, +63 (0) 917 514 5738, in Tacloban
]]>
No publisher
Lawrence Sandiego

2014-12-04T01:05:00Z
Page


Making Every Indigenous Person Visible
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/making-every-indigenous-person-visible
    Key to bridging the gap between indigenous peoples and their rights is making sure they are counted and visible. 

Birth registration is an important first step to making sure indigenous peoples are counted and visible.
8 August 2014: The Philippines is known for its more than 7,000 tropical islands inhabited by different groups of Filipinos speaking about 170 native languages. From the Tourism Department's point of view, this magnificent geography and cultural diversity, buoyed by the people's fun-loving spirit, comprises the country's unique selling point. It is more fun in the Philippines, after all.
While this diversity is indeed worth celebrating, it continues to pose a huge challenge for the government to make sure that everyone in the population, which hit 100 million on 27 July, is counted and has their birth registered. It's a similar story in other countries across Asia and the rest of the world where some 350 million indigenous people live, often on the fringes of society, both literally and figuratively.
Bridging the gap
The theme for this year's International Day of the World's Indigenous People on 9 August is 'Bridging the Gap: Implementing the rights of indigenous people'. In a country like the Philippines, where indigenous groups continue to be among the most disadvantaged in the population, to "bridge the gap" means, firstly, making sure everyone is counted and visible.
To date there is no official figure on the number of indigenous peoples in the Philippines. Estimates range somewhere between 14 and 17 million people or between 10 and 20% of the total population. What we do know, though, is that wherever indigenous people live, they are among the poorest and least educated of their population.
Although the situation greatly varies from the north to the south, most indigenous people in the Philippines continue to face exclusion from political processes and economic and social development. They occupy some of the most remote areas in the country, far from the reach of government services. As in other parts of the indigenous world, such exclusion is intimately related to the loss of ancestral lands and traditional ways of living; displacement due to armed conflicts and disasters; and confrontations with pressures to conform to the dominant culture.
Counting everyone
In terms of birth registration, most provinces where indigenous people live have birth registration rates that are much lower than the national figure, which as of 2010 is at 88%. In the region of Muslim Mindanao, the rate is as low as 25%; in the Cordillera Region, where the indigenous community I am part of is located, the rate is 96%!
This striking inequality becomes more interesting when compared to data on human development in the same areas. Data shows that provinces with higher Human Development Index (HDI) scores (i.e. people are generally more educated, have better access to health services and have higher standards of living) have higher birth registration rates. This suggests a potentially complex link – to be exact, A Complex Story – between birth registration, social development and human rights, in the Philippines and beyond.
The challenge to count every child therefore involves focusing on those who are most marginalised and most vulnerable – those who are, at present, invisible. For an organisation like Plan, this means continuing to reach out to indigenous communities, particularly those who live in geographically isolated and disadvantaged areas, to make sure that each birth is registered. At the same time, we will continue calling for a responsive and rights-based national civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS) system to be put in place.
A complete picture
The good news is that the Philippine government, with support from development partners, is taking important steps to "get everyone in the picture". The Philippines was one of four countries selected to present national CRVS investment plans at a global meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in April. For development partners, there was the National Civil Society Forum on CRVS, which Plan co-hosted on 7–8 August. The event aimed to consolidate grassroots support for CRVS, specifically to strengthen the policy environment for CRVS towards the protection, promotion and fulfillment of the rights of every Filipino.
I can sum up all these efforts to make every indigenous person visible as celebrating diversity, addressing inequalities and guaranteeing rights. When we know with precision how many indigenous people there are, where they live and what their situation is, we will be better equipped to implement needed programmes to "bridge the gap".
For further details, please contact the author:
Airah Cadiogan, Advocacy OfficerTelephone: +63 (917) 594 8925Email: airah.cadiogan@plan-international.org]]>
No publisher
Lawrence Sandiego

2014-08-08T09:35:00Z
Page


Plan International ready for Typhoon Rammasun
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-ready-for-typhoon-glenda
    Plan is monitoring Typhoon Rammasun and ready to support affected communities as the storm makes landfall in the Philippines.

To prepare for Typhoon Rammasun ('Glenda'), Plan Philippines delivers hundreds of water jugs to evacuees in the city of Tacloban.
15 July 2014: As the first major typhoon of the year bears down on the Philippines, including areas affected by last year’s super typhoon, humanitarian organisation Plan International is closely monitoring the situation in preparation for a rapid humanitarian response if required.
Typhoon Rammasun (known locally as ‘Glenda’) is expected to make landfall in the next 12 hours, pushing through the middle of the country and affecting multiple provinces, including the capital Manila. While not as large as Super Typhoon Haiyan which devastated huge parts of the Philippines late last year, Rammasun is still expected to cause serious flooding and property damage, further stretching a country which takes the brunt of more than 20 typhoons every year. Rammasun is also projected to hit areas already badly affected by Haiyan.
Marco Savio, Plan International’s Acting Country Director in the Philippines says: “We are continuously monitoring the situation and our contacts in the area are updating us on all developments. Our emergency response experts are ready to make a quick assessment and we are on standby to support affected populations as required. The people in areas affected by last year’s super typhoon are already incredibly vulnerable – another typhoon is the last thing they need."
“We have extensive experience responding to disasters here, including Typhoon Haiyan; to date we have helped more than 1.3 million people in 1300 villages who survived that devastating storm. We know from more than 50 years of experience working in the Philippines that when disasters hit, they always hit the most vulnerable the hardest. Children are always badly affected by disasters like this so we always work to ensure that girls, boys and their caregivers are prioritised for immediate assistance.”
“In an emergency our first response focuses on life-saving needs, including things like water and sanitation but we also look at the bigger picture, working to make sure that children are safe from harm and able to return to school.”
Plan International is one of the Philippines' longest-serving aid and development INGOs, with a special focus on helping marginalised children across the country to access their rights to health, education, livelihoods, disaster risk management and protection.
"Our staff are highly trained and experienced in emergency response” says Mr Savio. "We are on standby and will provide support as required to those who need it most."
For more information about Plan’s work in the Philippines, including previous disaster responses, go to http://plan-international.org/philippines
For media enquiries, please call:Cynthia ArceCommunications ManagerPlan International PhilippinesMobile: +63 917 832 5723]]>
No publisher
Jessica Lomelin

2014-07-15T13:45:00Z
Page


Plan launches project  promoting ‘positive discipline’ of children
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-launches-project-promoting-2018positive-discipline2019-of-children
    Saying no to corporal punishment and verbal abuse, and a big yes to positive disciplining practices

Plan and partners hopes to put an end to abusive and hurtful child disciplining practices in the Philippines.
15 May 2014: To celebrate the International Day of Families, Plan International Philippines, together with representatives from the European Union and government agencies, launched today a project promoting “positive and non-violent discipline” of children in the Philippines.
Dubbed the “Positive Discipline Project,” the three-year initiative will help families, teachers and community officials to stop abusive child disciplining practices like spanking and pinching, and instead practice positive and non-violent means of guiding children’s behavior. 
The project is being jointly implemented in six areas (Ifugao province, Quezon City, Naga City, Cebu City, Eastern Samar province and Sarangani province) by Plan International Philippines, Lihok Pilipina Foundation, and the Philippine Legislators’ Committee on Population and Development (PLCPD) Foundation, with support from the European Union and Plan International Germany. 
According to Carin van der Hor, Country Director of Plan International Philippines, “Positive and non-violent discipline is a parenting approach that teaches children and guides their behavior while respecting their human rights. Through this project, we hope to encourage Filipino families, schools and barangays to end the culture of spanking and, together, build a society that truly cares for and protects children.”
Corporal punishment in the Philippines
Article 19 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UN CRC), which the Philippines is a signatory of, requires states to protect children from “all forms of physical and mental violence,” including spanking and other forms of “corporal punishment” or the act of using physical or psychological violence, including verbal abuse, to “discipline” children.
According to a 2011 Pulse Asia survey, two out of three parents in the Philippines use at least one form of physical or psychological punishment to discipline their children.
van der Hor added: “We know that spanking and other forms of corporal punishment, including verbal ‘punishment’, is prevalent in the Philippines. But we also know that such kinds of punishment are not effective in teaching children.”
Citing findings from a 2011 study on Filipino childrearing practices commissioned by Plan International and the European Union, van der Hor said: “Corporal punishment lowers children’s self-esteem, teaches violence, and weakens the bond between parent and child. In the long term, it may even lead to depression and, at worst, suicide.”
Collective action needed to promote positive discipline
At the national level, the project will work closely with the DSWD, DepEd, DILG and the Child Rights Network in pushing for the enactment of the “Positive Discipline Bill” in the 16th Congress. Together, they will ensure the implementation of the Anti-Bullying Act and the DepEd Child Protection Policy in all schools and barangays.
At the local level, the project will organize and strengthen community-based groups and children’s associations advocating for violence-free homes, schools and communities. An award recognizing “model” homes, schools and barangays practicing positive and non-violent discipline will be given at the end of the project.
According to Jayson Lozano, Positive Discipline Project Manager from Plan International Philippines: “We are looking forward to working with government and civil society partners, and children and young people, to promote positive and non-violent discipline in the Philippines. For sure, our collective action is crucial for the success of this project. If we can do this, we are on the right track towards fulfilling the country’s obligations under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.”
For further details, please contact:
Airah Cadiogan, Advocacy OfficerTelephone: +63 (917) 594 8925Email: airah.cadiogan@plan-international.org]]>
No publisher
Lawrence Sandiego

positive discipline
Philippines
corporal punishment
Asia
verbal abuse
child protection
2014-05-14T23:00:00Z
Page


Plan welcomes Supreme Court decision on Reproductive Health Law
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-welcomes-supreme-court-decision-on-reproductive-health-law
    Landmark victory for reproductive health, and children's rights as well 

Plan rejoices with advocates pushing for wider access to reproductive health information and services.
10 April 2014: Plan International welcomes the Supreme Court decision upholding the core provisions of the Reproductive Health Law. In a statement by Carin van der Hor, Plan International Philippines Country Director, the ruling is a landmark victory not just for RH advocates, but for proponents of children’s rights as well.
“The Supreme Court’s ruling seals the RH Law’s crucial contribution in protecting children from the adverse effects of lack of information about reproductive health, and overall in improving the quality of life of young people,” van der Hor said. 
Providing access
National Statistics Office data show that the Philippines ranks third highest in the ASEAN region on incidence of teen pregnancy, with figures rising by 70% for a period of ten years from 1999 to 2009. 2012 National Statistics and Coordination Board data also show the Philippines ranking high in maternal mortality ratio, with 221 deaths per 100,000 live births – an extremely sharp increase from just 97 deaths in 2011.
“The law provides means for young people to access information on RH, either through age- and development-appropriate education on sexual and reproductive health, or even through a nationwide awareness campaign using multimedia. Such investments that focus especially on benefitting women and girls will have compounding effects on maternal and child health, keeping children in school, and even opening up economic opportunities, in turn benefitting families, communities, and the country as a whole,” van der Hor added. 
No letting up
van der Hor was quick to add, however, that there is no letting up for RH and children’s rights advocates, until every person, including all youth and adolescents, are able to fully uphold their reproductive health rights. “The right to reproductive health is a fundamental human right. Protecting this also means ensuring that all persons will be given all the information that person needs in order for him or her to uphold this right,” van der Hor emphasized.
Plan International also called for the immediate implementation of the law. “Filipinos have waited too long and have already lost many precious lives. We urge our partners in government to put the law into effect as soon as possible,” van der Hor added.
For further details, please contact:
Cynthia Arce, Communications ManagerTelephone: +63 (02) 813 0030Email: cynthia.arce@plan-international.org]]>
No publisher
Lawrence Sandiego

Philippines
reproductive health
health
Asia
2014-04-09T23:00:00Z
Page


Trafficking remains key concern for child rights organisation
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/trafficking-remains-key-concern-for-child-rights-organisation
    Plan works closely with the government. 

Plan is committed to tackling trafficking in the Philippines.
17 January 2014: Trafficking remains a key concern for Plan International in the Philippines and the child rights organisation is committed to working closely with the government to tackle this issue.
Plan has worked closely with the government of the Philippines since 2005 on anti-trafficking measures. Plan’s most recent Community-Based Anti-Trafficking in Persons (ATIP) project worked in conjunction with the government to prevent trafficking and protect, care for and rehabilitate survivors of trafficking.
According to Carin van der Hor, Country Director of Plan International in the Philippines:
“Experiences from similar disasters show that the potential for human trafficking, particularly of women and children, increases after a humanitarian crisis such as Typhoon Haiyan. With this in mind, Plan has extended and further intensified its anti-trafficking project for another two years, with a focus on the post-disaster context.”
Partnership
Plan will work in partnership with the government to address both the ‘source’ and ‘exit’ points for trafficking. Communities in areas affected by Typhoon Haiyan will be targeted with information and awareness-raising activities that help them to understand the risks of trafficking within and outside the Philippines. These communities will then work together with Plan’s support to ensure the safety of vulnerable women and children.
At ‘exit’ points such as airports and seaports where trafficked women and children may be removed from the country or sent to large cities, Plan will work with the government to strengthen anti-trafficking mechanisms.
Early concerns
In the immediate aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan, Plan’s anti-trafficking project staff worked with local authorities in Samar to report concerns about a small number of adolescents recruited to work in Angeles city in Pampanga from Samar. The Department of Social Welfare and Development is investigating this in line with procedures developed as part of the joint anti-trafficking project.
Plan will continue to support these combined efforts to ensure the safety and security of vulnerable children and women from areas affected by Typhoon Haiyan and elsewhere and is confident that this issue remains a priority for the government under the leadership of Social Welfare Secretary Soliman and the Department of Justice.
For further details please contact:
Cate Heinrich, Press OfficerMobile: +63 (0)920 292 1670Email: cate.heinrich@plan-international.org
Angela Singh, Press OfficerMobile: +63 928 295 2211Email: angela.singh@plan-international.org]]>
No publisher
Matt Crook

Philippines
2014-01-17T00:00:00Z
Page


Clowns to help speed up children’s recovery in Philippines
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/clowns-to-help-speed-up-children2019s-recovery-in-philippines
    They say laughter is the best medicine. 

Tricycles and tiny cars not included.
23 December 2013: Plan is sending a group of clowns to Haiyan affected areas this holiday season to bring laughter and help children recover faster.
As part of its recovery work, child rights agency Plan is working with Clowns Without Borders, an organisation dedicated to alleviating suffering in disaster situations such as Typhoon Haiyan. Between 21 and 31 December the clowns will entertain those affected, particularly children, by performing in public places, relief camps, evacuation centres, schools and child-friendly spaces in Tacloban, Eastern Samar and Leyte.
The shows will be packed with music, juggling, acrobatics and other forms of circus-oriented performances.
The power of smiles
Dr Unni Krishnan, Plan's Head of Disaster Preparedness and Response, said, "Children affected by the typhoon have gone through a traumatic experience. This innovative approach, which blends fun with psychological and humanitarian support, can reach children and help them heal faster.”
Nearly 6 million people, 41% of those affected by Haiyan, are children. This initiative will further support Plan’s work with impacted children in the Philippines.
“In a disaster like this, it is normal for children to be distressed," said Lotte Claessens, Plan's Child Protection in Emergencies Adviser.
"Some children have nightmares or trouble sleeping, or they become withdrawn, fearful or sometimes aggressive - all normal reactions to the abnormal, traumatic event they have lived through. Simple strategies can be used to comfort and calm children, such as telling stories and playing simple games.”
With this in mind, Claessens and the Plan team have worked with Clowns Without Borders to create a programme that will acknowledge children’s distress, fears and anxieties. Through performances, song and dance, the shows will help console children, build their confidence and thus aid healing.
The team will also incorporate simple messages into their act including those related to emotional support, safety, education, health, hygiene and recovery.
Michael O'Neill, from Clowns Without Borders, said. “Laughter releases tension and assists the healing process, while the clown is the mirror image of the human condition. Through the lens of the clown, the most absurd or overwhelming situations becomes more palatable and light.”
Happy holidays
To mark the holiday period, Plan also hosted more than 200 children at a Family Day Celebration in Hernani. With decorations scarce, a makeshift tree adorned with shiny CDs was erected outside the temporary child-friendly space in Carmen Elementary School. Children from the surrounding villages joined in the celebrations, which included dancing, singing and laughter.
A number of child-friendly spaces are being established by Plan staff and volunteers, providing children with a place to play, learn, receive psychological first aid and process what's happened to them in a safe environment.
Typhoon Haiyan, which hit the Philippines on November 8, 2013, left widespread devastation in its wake. Thousands of people lost their lives, and it is estimated up to 14.1 million people have been affected and 4.1 million displaced.
NOTES: Plan has operated in the Philippines for more than 50 years. It has launched a five year $75 million appeal and recovery operation to reach some 250,000 affected people.
Typhoon Haiyan is the most powerful recorded storm to make landfall.Thousands of people have lost their lives, and it is estimated that up to 14.1 million people have been affected and 4.1 million have been displaced.
Note to newsdesks: Plan International’s staff in the Philippines are available for interviews.
Contact: Cate Heinrich in Bangkok (+66 (0)8 18393032; cate.heinrich@plan-international.org) or Angela Singh at Plan HQ in the UK (+44 (0) 7739 326 164;Angela.Singh@plan-international.org).]]>
No publisher
Matt Crook

Philippines
Asia
2013-12-23T00:00:00Z
Page


Children widely ignored in Philippines recovery
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/children-widely-ignored-in-philippines-recovery
    It's time to hear what they have to say.

Children's voices have not been effectively heard until now.
20 December 2013: Children must be central to recovery plans after the devastating Philippines storm, a new report finds.
Nearly 6 million children have been caught up in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan – accounting for 41% of those affected.
Yet the study by leading children’s charities including Plan International revealed no systematic effort to canvass or have their views heard.
Serious risks
Risks that girls and boys face include death, injury, illness, separation from families, disruption to education, child labour and trafficking.
“It’s vital that the needs of children and what they want to happen next are included to make sure that the right kind of aid reaches the right people,” said Dr Unni Krishnan,kri Emergency Response Manager for Plan in the Philippines, “ It is also important the role of children in building resilience in disasters is recognised.”
Interviews with children after Haiyan hit show their priorities to include rebuilding homes, returning to school and restoring electricity.
The report also reveals children played a crucial role in the evacuation and preparedness that saved thousands of lives before the storm.
Scared
Many of those children talked to are scared of another storm hitting but are keen to learn more about how they can prepare for future disasters.
Despite living through traumatic events, children are taking new roles and responsibilities in the rebuilding of their communities. But they need psychosocial support to help them recover, authors of the report conclude.
Recommendations include more consultation with children and better information for them on how to prepare for future emergencies.
“Children and young people will be deeply affected by what they have lived through and the impact of a major disaster can affect the future of a generation,” said Dr Krishnan.
“We must ensure that they are involved so communities can build back stronger and build back better.”
The research was carried out with children aged 8 to 17 across affected areas of the Philippines by Save the Children , Plan, UNICEF and World Vision.
Plan International and UNICEF carried out a similar assessment with children after the 2010 Haiti earthquake – the findings of which were eventually incorporated into the country’s national recovery plans.
Click here to download the full report.
NOTES: Plan has operated in the Philippines for more than 50 years. It has launched a five year $75 million appeal and recovery operation to reach some 250,000 affected people.
Typhoon Haiyan is the most powerful recorded storm to make landfall.Thousands of people have lost their lives, and it is estimated that up to 14.1 million people have been affected and 4.1 million have been displaced.
Note to newsdesks: Plan International’s staff in the Philippines are available for interviews.
Contact: Cate Heinrich in Bangkok (+66 (0)8 18393032; cate.heinrich@plan-international.org) or Angela Singh at Plan HQ in the UK (+44 (0) 7739 326 164; Angela.Singh@plan-international.org).]]>
No publisher
Matt Crook

2013-12-20T00:00:00Z
Page


Plan increases aid response to US$75 million in face of scale of destruction
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/plan-increases-aid-response-to-us-75-million-in-face-of-scale-of-destruction
    Aid reaching hard-hit communities, but major scaling up now needed.

More than 3 million people have been displaced.
27 November 2013: Plan International has increased the scale of its emergency response to Typhoon Haiyan to US$75 million to meet the magnitude of the disaster, it announced today.
The organisation, which has operated in the Philippines for more than 50 years, launched an initial $25 million appeal to provide immediate relief to typhoon survivors for 6 months which it is well on target to meet. But following further rapid assessments of impacted communities, it is now scaling up a larger, 5 year operation.
Superb support
Plan International CEO Nigel Chapman, currently in the Philippines, said: “The generosity and swift response from our supporters, the public, donor agencies and governments has been superb. It has enabled us to quickly get initial,vital aid to those most in need on the ground.
“The people in this country are well-drilled and prepared to deal with multiple natural disasters but it is clear that this ferocious typhoon has hit them incredibly hard. They are as ever, dignified and optimistic but obviously reeling in its wake and needing help.
“There is still a huge need for basic aid- food, water, shelter. But beyond that, we must ensure that we support the people of the Philippines to get back onto their feet with long-term assistance to re-build their lives and particularly ensure the children affected are protected and do not become a lost generation.”
Programme units affected
All of Plan Philippines’ programme units, home to about 40,000 sponsored children, have been affected across four provinces (Eastern Samar, Western Samar, Cebu and Leyte).
Plan placed vital supplies in communities before Haiyan hit, enabling thousands of shelter and water kits to be distributed immediately. It has since delivered additional aid to thousands and aims to reach more than 250,000 people including 105,000 children with immediate help including food. Plan will also be working with authorities on livelihoods, housing and rehabilitation of schools.
The typhoon has affected 13 million people, damaged or destroyed 1.1 million homes and displaced more than 3 million people – including an estimated 1.8 m children – 160,000 of them now living in evacuation centres.
Additional work is focusing on child protection and child-centred projects. This includes giving ‘emotional first aid’ projects for children, creating safe play and educational areas, closely monitoring increases in child trafficking, child labour and potential abuse of boys and girls in the aftermath of the disaster.
On average 20 typhoons hit the Philippines every year, with 2 or 3 of them devastating. Haiyan is the most powerful this year. Plan has been working in the Philippines since 1961. Projects benefit some 420 communities nationwide with more than 80,000 families.
To find out how to donate, visit planresponds.org
Note to newsdesks: Plan International’s staff in the Philippines are available for interviews.Contact: Stuart.Coles@plan-international.org +63 (0)9198856126 or matt.crook@plan-international.org in the Philippines or at Plan HQ in the UK: Angela.Singh@plan-international.org +44 (0) 7739 326 164]]>
No publisher
Matt Crook

Philippines
Asia
2013-11-27T00:00:00Z
Page


Full cost of Philippines storm still not known
http://plan-international.org/where-we-work/asia/philippines/about/news/full-cost-of-philippines-storm-still-not-known
    Massive aid response needed.

Reports of the destruction have been slowly trickling in.
10 November 2013: More than four million people are now thought to be caught up in the aftermath of the devastating Philippines storm, reports Plan International.
Typhoon Haiyan triggered storm surges and flash floods after tearing through the islands on Friday with winds of up to 195mph.
Homes were splintered, farmland swamped and bridges wrecked, with many remote areas still cut–off.
Death toll likely to rise
While the official death- toll remains at 150, this is expected to rise significantly, with some reports it could be above 10,000.
“Unfortunately, it looks like the relatively low number of confirmed dead so far is likely to go up,” says Plan’s country director in the Philippines, Carin van der Hor.
“We’re hearing, for example, that there are bodies just lying the road – we have no idea of the extent of the damage and the death toll yet but fear the worst.”
Aid workers for Plan are helping survivors in the worst hit areas, having stockpiled water kits, hygiene kits and shelter materials before the storm.
“The winds were simply too strong for many buildings,” says Ms van der Hor.
“We’re talking about really poor areas that simply can’t withstand these winds, so we have extensive damage to houses and livelihoods.”
Extra help
Extra staff from other Plan offices in Asia are flying into the Philippines to help colleagues with aid distribution.
“Children are always badly affected by disasters like this; some will lose their lives, or lose parents, siblings and extended families,” adds Carin van der Hor.
“Everything that is familiar and safe is disrupted or destroyed, including homes, schooling and family livelihoods. Some of these children will witness things no child should have to see."
On average 20 typhoons hit the Philippines every year, with 2 or 3 of them devastating. Haiyan is the most powerful this year.
All of Plan Philippines’ programme units, home to about 40,000 sponsored children, are likely to have been affected.
Media contacts and interviews:
Mardy Halcon, Communications Officer, Mobile: +63 917 5435210, mardy.halcon@plan-international.org
Carin van der Hor Country Director, Mobile: +63 920 916 4514, Carin.Vanderhor@plan-international.org
Alice Clements, Regional Communications Manager, +66 869230662, alice.clements@plan-international.org]]>
No publisher
Matt Crook

Philippines
Asia
2013-11-10T00:00:00Z
Page


