AmeriCares: Emergency Aid Helps Thousands of Flood Survivors in Philippines 
AmeriCares: Emergency Aid Helps Thousands of Flood Survivors in Philippines












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Emergency Aid Helps Thousands of Flood Survivors in Philippines
Pre-positioned relief supplies flown to remote Mindanao









Tweet













														  
														December 22, 2011


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                











Typhoon Washi victims who are made homeless after their houses were swept away by flash floods rest at an evacuation center in Cagayan de Oro.   Photo Courtesy of REUTERS/Erik De Castro, www.Trust.org 








Since the Philippines is prone to typhoons and flooding, we keep supplies on hand in the country to speed the delivery of aid during emergencies.” 
— Christoph Gorder, Senior VP of Global Programs, AmeriCares
Despite the logistical challenges presented by severe flooding and waist-high mud on the flood-ravaged Mindanao Island in the Philippines, two emergency aid shipments containing AmeriCares donations have been delivered by helicopter to survivors living in evacuation centers. 
More than 1,000 people were swept to their deaths in the southern Philippines on December 18, when flash floods and mudslides triggered by Tropical Storm Washi tore through thousands of homes, forcing more than 50,000 to seek refuge in shelters. An estimated 150,000 people are affected by the disaster. 
Within 24 hours of the disaster, AmeriCares partners began airlifting and distributing pre-positioned emergency medicines and supplies to help injured and displaced survivors. A second shipment was flown into Mindanao on December 20. These shipments included pain relievers, cough and cold medications, and nutritional supplements.
Help AmeriCares save lives in the Philippines and around the world »
Each year, AmeriCares delivers aid well ahead of seasonal flooding, enabling local partners to respond rapidly when disaster strikes. 
New Aid Underway
New emergency aid to help flood survivors is now underway, including: 

Emergency air shipment of 2,000 pounds of medical aid was sent on December 22 containing antibiotics to treat waterborne diseases, nutritional supplements and hygiene products as well as chronic care medications to ensure continuity of care for patients with cardiovascular health problems and diabetes. 
$10,000 flash grant to procure medicines that fill crucial resource gaps, including medicines to treat leptospirosis, an infectious disease that poses a serious threat to flood survivors, enough clean drinking water for 15,000 people, and relief items for evacuees. 

Since 1985, AmeriCares has delivered more than $165 million in medicines, medical supplies and humanitarian aid to the Philippines to support more than 70 institutions, medical and disaster relief teams helping people in need.


Donate Now



















Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

