AmeriCares: Helping the Philippines Heal: Training Provides Foundation for a Healthy Future 
AmeriCares: Helping the Philippines Heal: Training Provides Foundation for a Healthy Future












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Helping the Philippines Heal: Training Provides Foundation for a Healthy Future
Training health workers in mental health support, nutrition, and disaster preparedness 









Tweet










														  
														May 15, 2014


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                











 Photo by Matthew McDermott







Working with partners in the Philippines, AmeriCares has introduced training to expand health workers’ skills in the areas of mental health and psychosocial support, malnutrition surveillance and disaster preparedness skills, to help create a foundation for a healthy future.
Mental Health Support
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), depression is a significant contributor to the global burden of disease, particularly among people who have experienced war, deprivation or disaster.  Furthermore WHO goes on to estimate that three-quarters of the world’s neuropsychiatric disorders are in low-income or low-middle income countries, where mental health services are often given a low priority because of limited health care resources.
To help communities and individuals in the Philippines heal from the psychological consequences of the disaster, we are working with partners who are providing training so health workers can recognize signs of mental illness in survivors.






 
		Training health workers to identify and monitor children at risk for malnutrition
	



In the first six months, our training has given more than 1,300 health workers and community leaders the skills to identify, treat and refer survivors needing mental health and psychosocial support. Such support will lower survivors’ risk of depression, post-traumatic stress and other mental health conditions.
Malnutrition Surveillance
In regions where the storm wiped out crops and damaged farmlands, survivors not only lost important food sources but primary income from farming as well, increasing the likelihood that families would not have enough food.  We have trained health workers and equipped them with tools and equipment to identify and monitor nutritional needs in order to provide appropriate nutritional support and related services, particularly among children who are physically the most vulnerable to malnutrition.
Preparedness
As our recovery efforts continue, we are developing programs to help communities be better prepared for emergencies and mitigate the effects of future disasters. This forward-looking work is crucial because the islands of the Philippines are located in a typhoon belt and are buffeted by severe storms every year.
 

Support for Survivors:

Training health workers and community leaders to assess and treat mental  health  issues in the hardest-hit areas
Increasing knowledge of basic nutrition among health workers in regions where malnutrition is a risk
Preparedness for future disasters




Read More
											  
											Donate Now
















Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

