AmeriCares: Estelita – a remarkable woman after the ‘wind, rain and water’ 
AmeriCares: Estelita – a remarkable woman after the ‘wind, rain and water’












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Estelita – a remarkable woman after the ‘wind, rain and water’
Reprint courtesy of IOM









Tweet










														  
														November 20, 2013


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                













 Photo courtesy of IOM/B.Motus



A gray-haired 72-year old woman from Barangay Tabok, Pontevedra in her bermuda shorts, blue Tshirt and blue hat slowly makes her way into the Pontevedra Rural Health Clinic with her  left foot and lower leg so swollen that it hurt to simply watch her walk. Her name is Estelita.
Estelita says she has no recollection of how she injured her leg. When Typhoon Yolanda struck their town, their house was completely destroyed. She and her husband along with their son and had to wade in chest-high water to get to some form of shelter from the howling wind and torrential rain. According to Estelita, it must have been while wading through the water that she sustained her wound because a few days later, her left foot became swollen. She had no idea whether her leg grazed a protruded nail or a sheet of corrugated iron or any other sharp object that the water concealed.







 Photo courtesy of IOM/B.Motus










 
		Estelita with her husband, William Photo courtesy of IOM/B.Motus




Almost a week after the typhoon hit (14 November), she went to the Pontevedra rural health clinic because of the constant swelling, which had reached her lower knee, and unbearable pain in her leg. The clinic administered anti-tetanus shots and gave her antibiotics enough for three days. She was told she had to purchase the rest of the antibiotics as the clinic had no more left in stock. Estelita finished her antibiotics and, having no money, could not buy the rest to finish her medication.
So in the late afternoon of Tuesday, 18 November, with her husband William , Estelita comes into the Pontevedra rural health clinic once more.
Pontevedra is one of the towns in Roxas where IOM has set up emergency health operations to provide relief for overstretched public healthcare systems by augmenting primary healthcare in coordination with AmeriCares, IOM’s health partner in humanitarian emergencies.
As Estelita and her husband walk in, off to one side of the clinic were IOM and AmeriCares, who were handing over two health kits containing essential medicines and medical supplies to the clinic. The clinic now had the antibiotics that Estelita needed! Grateful and smiling, Estelita beams at us radiantly and as we record the moment with photos, calls her husband to come and give her a kiss for the camera.
This blog post was written by Nenette Motus, Senior Migration Health Policy Advisor, Migration Health Division at the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and published here . AmeriCares is partnering with IOM on Typhoon Haiyan relief efforts.


Read More
											  
											Donate Now


















Philippines Disaster Relief Fund
Please help deliver lifesaving aid to families suffering from Super Typhoon Haiyan. Your gift will be restricted to support AmeriCares disaster response in the Philippines.  
Donate Now




Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

