Philippines typhoon: In search of safe water to drink | Oxfam International Blogs
Philippines typhoon: In search of safe water to drink | Oxfam International Blogs


Jump to navigation






English
Français
Español




Search form

Search 









Jobs
News
Policy & Research
Contact






Main menuExplore
Take Action
Worldwide
Blogs
Donate
 

Main menu options



How we fight poverty
Emergency response
Issues we work on
Long-Term Development
Global Ambassadors
Multimedia
About us






 

How we fight poverty 

The injustice of poverty demands a powerful and practical response to address both its causes and its impact on peoples' lives. 





 

Gaza: Food vouchers provide a lifeline for families who have lost everything 

In the blink of an eye, Ahmed's home and his shop were bombed into rubble. Now he is struggling to provide for his family. Oxfam and partners have been distributing emergency food vouchers to 50,000 families like Ahmad's. 






Campaign with us
Find an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Spread the word
Volunteer with us
Shop with us
Work with us






 

Oxfam Trailwalker 

Challenge yourself and challenge poverty in the ultimate test of determination and teamwork. 





 

Oxfam Unwrapped 

Looking for something a little different this festive season? Oxfam Unwrapped is a chance for you to share with your family, friends or loved ones the gift of making a real difference to someone's life. Give a gift that truly gives twice! 









  All

Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean  

Central and East Africa  

East Asia  

Eastern Europe and former Soviet Union  

Horn of Africa  

Maghreb & Middle East  

North America  

Pacific  

South America  

South Asia  

Southern Africa  

West Africa  

Western Europe  
 



  
 Afghanistan 

 Algeria 

 Armenia 

 Azerbaijan 

 Bangladesh 

 Benin 

 Bolivia 

 Brazil 

 Burkina Faso 

 Burundi 

 Cambodia 

 Central African Republic 

 Chad 

 China 

 Colombia 

 Cuba 

 Democratic Republic of Congo 

 Dominican Republic 

 Ecuador 

 Egypt 

 El Salvador 

 Ethiopia 

 Georgia 

 Ghana 

 Guatemala 

 Haiti 

 Honduras 

 Indonesia 

 Ivory Coast 

 Kenya 

 Laos 

 Lebanon 

 Liberia 

 Malawi 

 Mali 

 Mauritania 

 Mexico 

 Morocco 

 Mozambique 

 Myanmar (Burma) 

 Nepal 

 Nicaragua 

 Niger 

 Nigeria 

 Occupied Palestinian Territory and Israel 

 Pakistan 

 Papua New Guinea 

 Paraguay 

 Peru 

 Philippines 

 Russia 

 Rwanda 

 Samoa 

 Senegal 

 Sierra Leone 

 Solomon Islands 

 Somalia 

 South Africa 

 South Sudan 

 Sri Lanka 

 Sudan 

 Tajikistan 

 Tanzania 

 Thailand 

 Timor-Leste (East Timor) 

 Tonga 

 Uganda 

 Vanuatu 

 Vietnam 

 Western Sahara 

 Yemen 

 Zambia 
 






 

The Guardians of South Sudan 

In South Sudan, peace seemed like a lost dream after conflict erupted in December 2013. But many are trying to keep hope alive. 





 

From grove to market: Palestinian olive harvest in Farkha 

Oxfam and local partners run a program which helps Palestinian farmers improve the quality and quantity of their olive oil and reach local and international markets. 






Blog channels
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Food and Gender
Future of Agriculture
Inequality and essential services
General





Blog: Why is Oxfam calling for a World Tax Summit?23 January 2015



Blog: World leaders at Davos: Show us your climate credentials!20 January 2015







  
 Crisis in Gaza 

 Crisis in South Sudan 
 
More donation options





 

Crisis in South Sudan 

Nearly 4 million people remain in urgent need in South Sudan following the conflict that broke out in December 2013. Over 1.9 million people have fled their homes and are displaced within the country and over 479,000 have fled to neighboring countries. We have reached more than 360,000 people with life saving essentials, but we urgently need to reach more.  





 

Crisis in Syria 

More than three years after the beginning of the conflict in Syria the war shows no sign of abating. Massive numbers of refugees have fled conflict areas and are now living in inadequate shelter within Syria or in neighboring countries. 



 Close 

You are hereHome › Blogs › 






Conflict & Emergencies blog channel 

Philippines typhoon: In search of safe water to drink

 

Blog post by Joel M BassukOxfam International, Social Media ManagerMore from Joel M Bassuk 

Share this page: 












 

Oxfam's early assessment team has sent through this report from Cebu island, Philippines.
Meet the Mondejar sisters: Nelia, Sarah Jane and Rizza Mae. They are aged 10, 8 and 5 respectively. Next to them is their friend, Jennylyn Pepito, 6 years old. They are all housed in one of the classrooms of Daanbantayan National High School, which currently serves an evacuation center for 160 families on Cebu island.
The Oxfam assessment team chanced upon them while they were crossing the street on their way back to the evacuation center. They were carrying a gallon of water each. Rizza Mae, who is only 5, lags behind, barely keeping up with her elder sisters. It turns out, they are the ones assigned to fetch water for their Moms who were in charge of cooking their food.
No electricity to run water pipes
“I followed them as they made their way back after emptying their gallons in a pail outside their room,” a member of the Oxfam assessment team reports. “They crossed the street again, wove their way among houses to get to a well in one of the houses further back.”
“There I met Nanay Teofila Melendez, 82, who owns the well. She told me that from 2 PM till late in the evening, and even early dawn, the people from the evacuation center would find their way there to fetch water. She told me they only used it for washing given that it’s mixed with salt water. However, with no electricity these days to run their water pipes, they are left with no choice but to also use it for drinking. Nanay Teofila said they boil the water prior to using it for consumption.
Drinking salty water
“While I chatted with Nanay Teofila, I see the kids happily getting on with the task. Nelia, being the oldest and the tallest, takes on the job of drawing water from the well. She then fills each gallon. When all 4 are filled, each girl would pick up one and then begin their exodus again.
“I asked the girls how often they would fetch water in a day and they all replied, ‘Napu!’ which means ten times in Cebuano. They said they fetch water in the morning, during lunch and then in the afternoon as well. When I asked them whether, like Nanay Teofila, they also boil the water for drinking, their mother and other women in the center replied they don’t bother anymore. They said they only have enough fuel for cooking food and when they get thirsty, they just drink the water as is. When I pointed out that it’s part salty, they all replied they hardly have any choice, given their situation.”
Among other measures to prevent the spread of diseases in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan, Oxfam is sending water treatment gear from Manila to areas affected by the Typhoon to make water safe.
You may also like
Oxfam's response and how to donate: Philippines Typhoon Haiyan 
Blog:  Philippines representative's tearful testimony at the UN climate talks in WarsawTags: Philippinestyphoon Haiyantyphoonclean waterYolandaConflict & Emergencies 






Conflict & Emergencies


Conflict, disasters and emergencies are frequent, but their devastating impact on ordinary people can often be avoided.


 Blog channels

Food and Gender: Online Discussion
Future of Agriculture: Online Discussion
GROW
Conflict & Emergencies
Gender Justice
Inequality and essential services
General











Currently showing Oxfam International's social media channels. Show all channels 


Join us on Facebook










View videos on YouTube



   

   

   

 



View photos on Flickr
 








What we doHow we fight poverty
Emergencies
Campaigns
Issues
Where we work

About UsWhat we believe
Ambassadors
Accountability
EU Office
Annual Report

What you can doFind an action
Give to Oxfam
Take part in Trailwalker
Buy Unwrapped
Jobs

ResourcesMultimedia
Policy & Research
FAQs
RSS feeds

 





Oxfam Affiliates


  
 Oxfam International Secretariat 

 Oxfam America 

 Oxfam Australia 

 Oxfam Canada 

 Oxfam France  
  
 Oxfam Germany 

 Oxfam Great Britain 

 Oxfam Hong Kong 

 Oxfam India 

 Oxfam Intermón (Spain) 
  
 Oxfam Ireland 

 Oxfam Italy 

 Oxfam Mexico 

 Oxfam Novib (Netherlands) 

 Oxfam-in-Belgium 
  
 Oxfam-Québec 

 Oxfam Japan 

 Oxfam New Zealand 
 
 


Contact
Privacy




      
  Copyright © 2015 Oxfam International. All rights reserved.  



 




