Distress Grows for Philippine Typhoon Victims Who Can’t Get Aid, or Get Out - NYTimes.com
Distress Grows for Philippine Typhoon Victims Who Can’t Get Aid, or Get Out - NYTimes.com





Subscribe NowWant both newspaper deliveryand free, unlimited digital access?50% OFF FOR 12 WEEKSWant unlimited access to NYTimes.com and our apps?99¢ FOR 4 WEEKSSee All SubscriptionsSubscribe






campaign: nyt2014_bar1_digihd_regi_BAU -- 268632, creative: nyt2014_bar1_digihd_BAU_4JQ88_4JQ8F_4JQ8J_4JQ8L -- 396026, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia/anger-rising-over-conditions-in-tacloban-ravaged-philippine-city.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Asia Pacific





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos










Devastation in the Philippines







Distress Grows for Philippine Typhoon Victims Who Can’t Get Aid, or Get Out 






 

By 

KEITH BRADSHER

Published: November 12, 2013    













TACLOBAN, the Philippines — Increasingly desperate survivors of Typhoon Haiyan mobbed the shattered airport here on Tuesday, begging for food, water or a flight to escape the chaotic aftermath of the storm, which flattened this city of 220,000 last week and ravaged vast swaths of the country’s midsection.        



  
 Multimedia






Interactive Feature



Pictures of Typhoon Haiyan’s Wrath









Map



Mapping the Destruction of Typhoon Haiyan









Video:             On the Ground in Tacloban




Video:             Emotional Speech by Philippine Delegate





Related



As the Living Receive Aid, Bodies Remain Uncollected in the Philippines
(November 13, 2013)




U.N. Appeals for $301 Million Toward Typhoon Relief
(November 13, 2013)




The Lede: Messages to and From Survivors of Typhoon Haiyan
(November 11, 2013)




The Lede: How to Help Typhoon Victims in the Philippines
(November 11, 2013)





Related in Opinion



Editorial: Agony in the Philippines
(November 13, 2013)




Op-Ed Contributor: Notes From a Storm-Wrecked Land
(November 12, 2013)






Connect With Us on Twitter
Follow @nytimesworld for international breaking news and headlines.
Twitter List: Reporters and Editors



Enlarge This Image










Jes Aznar for The New York Times
Residents waiting inside a damanged airport to get to a government plane out of Tacloban City.                            




Even as an enormous global aid effort gathered momentum and relief supplies began trickling in to the airport here and elsewhere, officials did not have a full grasp of the magnitude of the devastation and could provide no guidance on when basic emergency needs could be met.        
While President Benigno S. Aquino III suggested in a CNN interview that estimates of 10,000 or more dead may turn out to be high, international relief officials said they were still assuming the worst and expressed worry that bottlenecks and delays could prevent them from reaching millions of victims for days.        
Officials in Manila found themselves on the defensive, asserting that they were doing the best they could despite a storm that Valerie Amos, the top United Nations relief coordinator, who flew to the capital to help take charge of efforts, called the “most deadly and destructive” to hit the Philippines. She pleaded for more than $300 million in emergency aid.        
“There has been a lot of commentary that relief is not moving as fast as it should be,” said Praveen Agrawal, the World Food Program’s Philippines representative and country director. “The reality on the ground is there is such a level of devastation.”        
The travails reached new heights on Tuesday in Tacloban, a formerly thriving city in the east-central Philippines that appeared to get the full force of the typhoon. Wearing face masks or pulling their shirts up over their noses to suppress the smell of bodies rotting on the streets, a procession of survivors three miles long walked toward the airport, where relief supplies had begun to arrive.        
They witnessed the despair of survivors like Erroll de la Cruz, 34, who squatted next to the pavement to scrawl the names of his wife, Michelle, and her 7-year-old son, Matthew, on a piece of plywood. Then he walked across the crowded road and laid the plywood between their corpses, in the hope that their lives would be remembered, and that perhaps the identification could help him trace the final burying place of their remains.        
“I don’t think I can handle this by myself,” he said quietly.        
The people of Tacloban had been struggling largely on their own with the devastation of the typhoon, with food distribution plagued by surging crowds and a lack of manpower.        
Some residents were understanding of the delays. Lamberto Patau, 31, a bus dispatcher, said more relief shipments had arrived than could be handed out. “There is food, but there is no one to distribute it because they were all victims,” he said.        
The devastation apparent during an eight-mile drive into the city center made the extent of the challenge clear. Mounds of debris up to 15 feet high towered next to the main road. Concrete pillars and other hazards that had fallen forced drivers, motorcyclists and pedestrians to dodge and weave.        
Police officers were operating a series of checkpoints, built of little more than scraps of wood, to try to restrain unruly behavior. An 8 p.m. curfew was imposed.        
Jennifer Cicco, the administrator of the Leyte Island chapter of the Philippines Red Cross, said the conservative estimate from provincial officials was that in addition to the deaths in Tacloban, 10,000 people may have died in surrounding Leyte Province. The province is home to 1.3 million, almost all living on the coast, where many fishing villages were unprepared for the storm.        
The official death toll for the entire country was 1,798 as of 8 p.m. Tuesday, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. But many of the hardest-hit areas had not yet been reached.        
The International Committee of the Red Cross tried to send a dozen truckloads of supplies to Tacloban from Davao in the southern Philippines ahead of the typhoon, but the storm moved so fast that the trucks did not reach their destination in time. A hungry crowd tried to hijack the convoy about 20 miles south of the city, forcing it to stop, and on Tuesday night the roads were still too unsafe for the convoy to proceed, Ms. Cicco said.        



 1  2 Next Page » 
Reporting was contributed by Austin Ramzy from Cebu, the Philippines; Gerry Mullany from Hong Kong; Thom Shanker from Washington; and Rick Gladstone from New York. 
 











A version of this article appears in print on November 13, 2013, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Distress Grows as Philippine Typhoon Victims Can’t Get Aid, or Get Out.




 

















Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics












Philippines






Typhoon Haiyan (2013)








Hurricanes and Tropical Storms








 












 

 







 

 

 



 

 




 



 






 













 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health &raquo 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2013 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback
















