Relief Supplies Pour Into Philippines, but Remote Areas Still Suffer - NYTimes.com
Relief Supplies Pour Into Philippines, but Remote Areas Still Suffer - NYTimes.com





Subscribe NowWant both newspaper deliveryand free, unlimited digital access?50% OFF FOR 12 WEEKSWant unlimited access to NYTimes.com and our apps?99¢ FOR 4 WEEKSSee All SubscriptionsSubscribe






campaign: nyt2014_bar1_digihd_regi_BAU -- 268632, creative: nyt2014_bar1_digihd_BAU_4JQ88_4JQ8F_4JQ8J_4JQ8L -- 396026, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia/relief-supplies-pour-into-philippines-but-remote-areas-still-suffer.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Asia Pacific





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos










Devastation in the Philippines







Relief Supplies Pour Into Philippines, but Remote Areas Still Suffer 




Bryan Denton for The New York Times
The aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan in Guiuan, on Samar Island. 

 

By 

ANDREW JACOBS

Published: November 16, 2013    













QUINAPONDAN, the Philippines — Day after day, the mayor of this storm-shattered town makes the two-hour drive past flattened villages and splintered palm groves to the nearest functioning airport, where he begs for provisions from those who run the relief supply staging area for eastern Samar Island.        



  
 Multimedia






Photographs



Pictures of Typhoon Haiyan’s Wrath









Map:             Mapping the Destruction of Typhoon Haiyan





Related



Growing Clamor About Inequities of Climate Crisis
(November 17, 2013)




In Worst-Hit Area of Tacloban, a Killer From Two Sides
(November 17, 2013)




Keith Bradsher Answers Readers’ Questions on the Philippines
(November 17, 2013)




The Lede: How to Help Typhoon Victims in the Philippines
(November 11, 2013)






Connect With Us on Twitter
Follow @nytimesworld for international breaking news and headlines.
Twitter List: Reporters and Editors



Enlarge This Image










Sergey Ponomarev for The New York Times
South of Tacloban, a family slaughtered a pig on Saturday for food.                            



Enlarge This Image










Jes Aznar for The New York Times
A woman held a trophy that she had salvaged from the wreckage of her house in Tacloban.                            




“My people are starving,” he tells the government workers, whose requisition notebooks do not favor this rural flyspeck, population 16,525. “Yesterday someone died of hunger.”        
After days of logistical logjams and transportation paralysis, relief supplies have begun pouring into the ravaged midsection of this island nation, with American Osprey aircraft and C-130 cargo planes delivering pallets of rice and water to the airports in Tacloban, on Leyte Island to the west, and Guiuan, also here on Samar Island. International relief organizations have been fanning out in earnest across the disaster zone.        
But while hard-hit urban areas are finally getting adequate supplies to stave off hunger and thirst, the region’s rural hinterland has been largely left to fend for itself in the week since Typhoon Haiyan barreled through with winds up to 190 miles per hour. According to Unicef, 13 million people have been affected.        
The United States Navy said Saturday that aircraft from the carrier George Washington had flown 77 sorties and delivered 11 tons of water and medical supplies since it arrived off the eastern coast of Samar on Thursday. Once on the ground, most of the aid is distributed by Philippine officials to cities across Leyte and Samar Islands, mostly by helicopter.        
On Saturday afternoon, the air traffic was so thick that the American naval commanders who have taken control of the Guiuan airport had to turn away at least two Philippine planes carrying supplies, forcing them to return to Manila.        
Rural areas, however, are still neglected. Perhaps most desperate are the far-flung islets whose residents, isolated from the country’s main islands, already live from hand to mouth. On Saturday, members of an American medical team touched down in Homonhon, a fishing island of 1,500 that was the first to bear the brunt of Haiyan as it swept west.        
Margaret Aguirre, communications director for the team, from the International Medical Corps, said it was the first help the residents had received since the storm struck. “They were in desperate shape,” she said, describing a range of untreated injuries and diseases, mostly advanced infections and ailments from a week of living unsheltered in the elements. Medics, she said, treated about a tenth of the residents.        
Among the throng of anxious people staring at the Guiuan airport’s busy runway on Saturday was Henry M. Afable, the mayor of Maydolong, a coastal town about 40 miles north. In the past week, he said, he secured enough food for only 400 of the town’s 13,000 people. “We have run out of everything, so we just divide everything up into small amounts,” he said, adding that the lone delivery, by a United States Navy helicopter, turned into a debacle after the aircraft touched down unannounced in a field next to the local high school. The result was a brutal free-for-all that favored the strong. “It was pandemonium,” he said.        
Here in Quinapondan, most people have been surviving on coconuts and camote, a Philippine sweet potato that residents have been digging up from their waterlogged fields. “Camote is very nutritious but it’s not enough,” the vice mayor, Rosula Sablo Mambulao, 58, said with a weak smile.        
Compared with Tacloban, a city of 220,000 where at least 800 died, Quinapondan is faring reasonably well. There were just 10 deaths here, with 170 people injured, according to the meticulously maintained white board propped up on the steps of City Hall.        
Still, the town has been leveled, with 80 percent of the buildings badly damaged or destroyed, including the hospital, all the schools and the two-year-old civic auditorium, its remains lying in a tangled heap near the town basketball court.        
After days of returning empty-handed, a municipal truck sent to Guiuan came back to Quinapondan on Friday with just 15 sacks of food, enough to feed a few hundred families. But on Saturday, after waiting an entire day amid the nonstop roar of Seahawk helicopters and cargo planes, Mayor Nedito A. Campo had better luck. He secured 40 sacks of free supplies from the Department of Social Welfare and Development, and then bought 400 more bags of rice, at $30 apiece, from a government warehouse in Guiuan.        
The warehouse still had about 6,000 sacks of good rice left — 14,000 were drenched when the roof blew away and the rice has since spoiled — but Rosendo Verdaflor, 58, the manager, said that he was not allowed to give the rest away, and that no one from the provincial government had told him otherwise. “It’s hard because people are hungry, but I have to follow orders,” he said with evident discomfort as a lone armed guard stood at the front gate.        
After the warehouse workers had filled up the Quinapondan town truck, it lumbered through a landscape of utter devastation, passing countless signs that said “Help Us” or “We Need Food” spelled out in plastic debris or painted on the few intact rooftops.        
Shortly before dusk, a cheer went up as the truck pulled up to City Hall, where scores of people were waiting for food or a chance to make a free two-minute call on a recently arrived satellite phone powered by a generator. The conversations followed a similar script: we are fine but please send money and food.        
Mayor Campo, bedraggled from the past week, smiled as volunteers carried the provisions into the lobby, where days earlier 250 people sought shelter as water sloshed in from shattered windows. He spoke with pride about how his town had escaped the looting and chaos that afflicted places like Tacloban, but said he was worried about the future, when international sympathy turns elsewhere and the town’s residents are left to fend for themselves. “I think we’ll be O.K. for the moment,” he said. “I just don’t know if people will be so civilized a month from now.”        



 











A version of this article appears in print on November 17, 2013, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Relief Supplies Pour Into Philippines, but Remote Areas Still Suffer.




 

















Get Free Email Alerts on These Topics












Typhoon Haiyan (2013)






Tacloban (Philippines)








Quinapondan (Philippines)






Humanitarian Aid








 












 

 





 

 

 



 

 






 



 






 













 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health &raquo 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2013 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback
















