Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Relief Fund | Heifer International | Charity Ending Hunger And Poverty
Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Relief Fund | Heifer International | Charity Ending Hunger And Poverty


















Skip to Navigation







Ending Hunger & Poverty


What you Can Do


Join The Conversation


Gift Catalog



                                    My Basket
                                

















            Typhoon Hagupit Relief Fund        


Farm families in the Philippines, many of whom are still recovering from last year's devasting Typhoon Haiyan, are facing a new threat from Typhoon Hagupit, locally known as Ruby.The storm is expected to bring significant damage in a wider coverage from the areas hit last year by Haiyan (Eastern Visayas), including that of the Bicol Region.
Three large Heifer programs are in the path of the storm. These programs support about 9,400 people and comprise 17 different projects. Heifer farming families have  moved animals and family to shelters, and have prepared food, fodder and medicine. Heifer is coordinating with other NGOs to prepare response and support following the impact.  
Give now to support Heifer's efforts to help our project partners in the Philippines weather this storm.All donations through this page go to Heifer International's Disaster Rehabilitation Fund, which is used to assist Heifer project participants around the globe who are affected by natural disasters.While not a disaster relief agency, in the event of a major disaster that exceeds a project community’s capacity to respond, Heifer partners with relief agencies and first-responders on the ground to support the efforts in communities where we work, with a focus on livestock and agricultural systems rehabilitation.Heifer International is following developments in the region closely. Read the latest updates on what's happening on the ground. 




                    Disaster Rehabilitation Fund                











                                    $500                                






                                    $250                                






                                    $125                                






                                    Other
                                




$














#JoinTheConversation

with

#Heifer










Farmers Hopeful After Typhoon Hagupit


                    Farmers in the Ormoc area of the Philippines are rebuilding for the second time in two years but say they are hopeful after typhoon Hagupit.                


                        Read Full Story Titled: Farmers Hopeful After Typhoon Hagupit










Typhoon Hagupit Damaged Homes, Crops and Animal Sheds 


                    Farming families in the Philippines suffered damaged homes, animal sheds and crops from Typhoon Hagupit, but all participants are safe and say their disaster training helped them prepare.                


                        Read Full Story Titled: Typhoon Hagupit Damaged Homes, Crops and Animal Sheds 










A Story of Resilience: One Year After Haiyan


                    One year after Super Typhoon Haiyan made landfall in the Philippines, Heifer families have made amazing strides in the rebuilding and recovery effort.                


                        Read Full Story Titled: A Story of Resilience: One Year After Haiyan













Give Where Needed Most








                        $500
                    






                        $250
                    






                        $125
                    






                        Other
                    




$










Learn More About Giving Where Needed Most















                                        Ending Hunger & Poverty
                                    



Answering Today's Global Challenges


The Heifer Way


Our Work


What We've Accomplished






                                        What You Can Do
                                    



Give


Gift Catalog


Fundraise For Heifer


School Activities


Faith Communities


Get Involved


Experience Heifer First-Hand






                                        Join the Conversation
                                    



World Ark Blog


World Ark Magazine


When Cows Fly


Email


Heifer In The News


Social Media








About Heifer


Our Partners


Need Help?


Careers





Search the Site





Submit Search

































Sign up for Email


First Name



Last Name



Email



Mobile Number (optional)



                                            To receive mobile updates, reply "YES" to the confirmation text. Message and data rates may apply. 
                                        



                                    If you're human, skip this field.
                                    




Postal Code




Subscribe




View mobile terms and conditions




Heifer International
                    1 World Avenue, Little Rock,
                    AR/USA 72202
855.9HUNGER (855.948.6437)



Facebook




Twitter




Google+











Privacy Policy
Linking Policy & Terms Of Use
Charitable Solicitation Disclosure Statements (PDF)
Site Requirements
Designed by Lifeblue

















 


