Typhoon-hit Philippines declares national calamity - Channel 4 News 
Typhoon-hit Philippines declares national calamity - Channel 4 News









Skip to Channel 4 News main content
Skip to Channel 4 News search
Skip to Channel 4 News navigation
Skip to Channel 4 navigation








Channels












Sign in


Register
Why register?
Cookies







TV Listings
Watch Live
All Programmes
Shorts
News
Apps









Channel 4 News

Watch live 7pm weekdays, weekend timings see TV listings



Search:


Go







Weather
The weather for the next 5 days





Catch Up
Watch from the last 7 days





Snowmail
Delivered daily to your inbox







Explore



UK



World



Politics



Business



Science



Technology



Culture



Video



Blogs



FactCheck



Special Reports




Blogs & More
											...




Video


Blogs


FactCheck


Special Reports

















Monday 11 November 2013


Philippines

																, World


Typhoon-hit Philippines declares national calamity

Tweet














President Benigno Aquino declares a state of national calamity, as rescue workers in the Philippines struggle to reach remote towns and villages to provide aid to more than 600,000 people.







Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.






 


The Philippine military has been using helicopters to access remote parts of the archipelago, but difficulties remain as much of the country's infrastructure has been destroyed.
Typhoon Haiyan is estimated to have destroyed 70 to 80 per cent of the structures in its path. Most of the damage and deaths were caused by huge waves that swept away coastal villages in scenes officials likened to the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.
Alfred Romualdez, mayor of Tacloban City, where bodies have been piled at the sides of roads and homes have been turned into matchsticks, said aid workers were having trouble sending relief supplies into more remote areas because roads, airports and bridges have been destroyed or covered in wreckage.
The United Nations said officials in Tacloban had reported one mass grave of 300-500 bodies.
The Philippine army is also working to prevent looting, especially in Tacloban, with many survivors having lost everything they own, and are without food.
"The situation is bad, the devastation has been significant. In some cases the devastation has been total," Secretary to the Cabinet Rene Almendras told a news conference.
 In a nationwide broadcast, Mr Aquino said the government was focusing relief and assistance efforts on Samar and Leyte provinces, which acted as "funnels for the storm surges".
The declaration of a state of national calamity should quicken rescue, relief and rehabilitation efforts.
It will also allow the government to use state funds for relief and rehabilitation and control prices. Mr Aquino said the government had set aside 18.7bn pesos ($432.97m for rehabilitation).
Aid agencies are also concerned about the spread of disease.
'Rapid response'
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon said in a statement on Sunday: "While many communities are very difficult to reach, with roads, airports and bridges destroyed or blocked with debris, agencies have begun airlifting food, health, shelter, medical and other life-saving supplies and have deployed specialist teams and vital logistics support."
Unicef has estimated that four million children could be affected by the disaster. Meanwhile, the British government has begun implementing a £6m "rapid response" in the aftermath of the typhoon.


 





Justine Greening, the international development secretary, said NHS experts have been flown in to Tacloban with shelter kits and water purification facilities.
She told ITV's Daybreak: "We've partnered up with NGOs (non-governmental organisations) that over the next few days will start to get to grips with who is where, but as you can see it is a chaotic situation.
"The first thing is to get the logistic routes open so we can start go get those life-saving supplies to people. We need then to work on the ground to get some semblance of order and start to put families back together."
Typhoon Haiyan has since made landfall in Vietnam and China, but has now been downgraded to a tropical storm. The wet weather it is brining still presents a risk of flooding and landslides.
A summary of the international response to the Typhoon Haiyan disaster is below:
Typhoon Haiyan - the international responseAustralia has announced a $10m package including medical personnel and items such as tarpaulins, sleeping mats, mosquito nets, water containers and hygiene kits.New Zealand will give NZ$2.15m in aid. A 25-strong emergency medical relief team is being sent by Japan.Indonesia will dispatch aircraft and logistical aid including drinking water, food, generators and medication. A team of 90 United States marines has been sent, part of a first  wave of US military assistance. The US Agency for International  Development is sending emergency shelters and hygiene materials, as well  as 55 tonnes of emergency food to feed 20,000 children and 15,000  adults for up to five days.The European Commission has said it will send three million euros to help the worst-affected areas.China will give $200,000 in cash in aid. The International Rescue Committee, run by David Miliband, will  dispatch an emergency team and has launched an appeal for $10m in aid. Medecins Sans Frontieres is sending 200 tonnes of medical and relief  supplies, and said it is strengthening its team in the area with an  additional 30  medical personnel. $1.3m of supplies including water purification tablets, soap, medical  kits, tarpaulins and nutrient supplements are being airlifted into the Philippines by Unicef.The World Food Programme is airlifting 40 tonnes of high-energy  biscuits, enough to feed 120,000 people for a day, as well as emergency  supplies and communications equipment.
 




Article Tags

Channel 4 News, Philippines, Typhoon Haiyan, United Nations, World

 
More on this story







Thousands feared dead in Philippines typhoon aftermath
10 November 2013







What is a super typhoon? The key questions
08 November 2013







Typhoon Haiyan - the view from the ground
08 November 2013







Philippines hit by Typhoon Haiyan - in pictures
08 November 2013




 


More from around the web




Typhoon Haiyan: Philippines destruction 'absolute bedlam'
bbc.co.uk


Typhoon Haiyan devastation: new storm on way
news.sky.com


Haiyan-triggered rainstorms lash south China
xinhuanet.com


Philippines typhoon emergency appeal
donate.unhcr.org















Advertisement



Today's latest articles








Eight dead after Boko Haram attack Nigerian city
25 Jan 2015







Austerity in Greece: a tragedy or triumph?
25 Jan 2015







Farage: Bashir 'unlikely to last long' with Tories - video
25 Jan 2015





 
Most read today



'They are hanging to life' - Saudi king's ex-wife speaks outWorld is now 'three minutes before armageddon'How you can help rough sleepers during the coldWe were defending British values, say Syria BritonsExclusive: 'locked-up' Saudi princesses' message for Obama Saudi Arabia and the House of Saud: things you should knowNew footage emerges of 'trapped' Saudi princesses Saudi's new boss - same as the old boss?At least 30 dead as rebels 'launch attack' on MariupolWhy Yemen's political collapse matters












back to top ↑








Catch Up
Watch from the last 7 days





Snowmail
Delivered daily to your inbox





Blogs
Insight from the news team







Blogs
News Team
Special Reports
Categories
Featured Countries







About

About the programme
Frequently asked questions
Contact us
Cookies



Network

FactCheck
Unreported World
Dispatches



Elsewhere

Google+
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
RSS Feeds














 Channel 4 


 4Seven 


 E4 


 More4 


 Film4 


 4Music 


 4oD 


 Channel 4 © 2015. We have updated our terms and conditions, privacy policy and cookies policy. Please ensure you read all these documents before using our Digital Products and Services. 



 TV Listings 


 Watch Live 


 All Programmes 


 Shorts 


 News 


 Apps 


 Useful links 

  Viewers  


 Terms and Conditions 


 Privacy Policy 


 Cookies Policy 


 Parental Control 


 Accessibility 


 Blogs 


 Contact Us 


 FAQs 


 C4 Store 




  Corporate  


 Info 


 Press 


 Commissioning 


 Corporate Responsibility 


 Freedom of Information 


 Diversity 


 Talent 


 Jobs 


 Sales 



 Channel 4 © 2015. For more information please read our terms and conditions and privacy policy. 
















