Typhoon Haiyan: New Storm On Way 
Typhoon Haiyan: New Storm On Way



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Typhoon Haiyan: New Storm On Way

With at least 10,000 dead and millions in desperate need of help, Britain promises £10m in aid and military assistance.


23:46, UK, 
Monday 11
November 2013















Play video "Millions Hit By Deadly Typhoon"










Video:
Millions Hit By Deadly Typhoon











Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






Rescuers are struggling to get desperately needed aid to areas of the Philippines devastated by Typhoon Haiyan - as a new storm approaches.

Aid workers are being held back by blocked roads and damaged airports as they try to deliver tents, food and medicines to the worst-affected areas.
Troops have been sent to the city of Tacloban to restore law and order after reports of looting, with Filipino President Benigno Aquino declaring a state of calamity and considering whether martial law is necessary.




Vehicles were left strewn amid the destruction in Tacloban (pic: Unicef)

Looters have reportedly broken into supermarkets, while a Red Cross aid convoy was raided. Consumer goods such as televisions and washing machines have also been stolen.
With at least 10,000 people thought to have been killed by the typhoon and two million affected, British Prime Minister David Cameron announced the UK would contribute £10m to aid efforts.








Play video "Huge Typhoon Aid Effort Under Way"










Video:
Huge Typhoon Aid Effort Under Way


Britain will also deploy Royal Navy warship HMS Daring to provide humanitarian assistance and RAF military transport aircraft to take equipment and supplies.
In Tacloban, corpses hung from trees and were scattered in the streets. As others remained buried in flattened buildings, survivors were left pleading for food, water and medicine.
One UN official said he was told there had been a three-metre (10ft) water surge through the city.








Play video "Nov, 2013: Typhoon Haiyan's Path"










Video:
Nov, 2013: Typhoon Haiyan's Path


A further 300 are confirmed dead and 2,000 missing on the neighbouring island of Samar.
Water has been cut off in many areas, making the relief effort more difficult.
Threatening to further hamper relief efforts is a new storm approaching the southern and central Philippines.

1/75










Gallery: Faces Of Storm's Brutal Aftermath
A man surveys felled trees in an area devastated by Typhoon Haiyan in Palo township.











































































































































































































































Government weather forecasters said the tropical depression could bring fresh floods to typhoon-affected areas.
The depression is expected to hit land on the southern island of Mindanao late Tuesday and then move across the central islands of Bohol, Cebu, Negros and Panay, which all suffered typhoon damage, forecaster Connie Dadivas said.
It could bring "moderate to heavy" rains, or about five to 15 millimetres (0.2 to 0.6 inches) per hour, he said.

1/22










Gallery: Aerial Shots
These aerial photos of the Philippines show the devastation left behind after Super Typhoon Haiyan ripped through the country. Click through for more images.












































































Sky's Chief Correspondent Stuart Ramsay, in Manila, said: "The relief operation is only just getting going, it's fairly piecemeal at the moment.
"They really don't have the volume of aircraft they need to either get aircraft in or people out in sufficient quantities to try and control what has become, day-by-day, a more difficult situation."
At least six people have also been killed in Vietnam after the typhoon made landfall near the Chinese border.
Some 600,000 people were evacuated from at-risk areas in the north of the country before Haiyan - downgraded to a weaker Category One storm - battered the coast with 98mph (157kmph) winds.
All schools in capital Hanoi were closed on Monday and extra police were dispatched to redirect traffic in flood-prone areas.
At least two million people are said to have been directly affected by the typhoon's path and the death toll is expected to rise further as rescuers reach cut-off areas.








Play video "Typhoon Haiyan: Philippines Latest"










Video:
Typhoon Haiyan: Philippines Latest


"This area has been totally ravaged", said Sebastien Sujobert, head of the International Committee of the Red Cross in Tacloban.
"Many lives were lost, a huge number of people are missing, and basic services such as drinking water and electricity have been cut off."
Haiyan hit the east coast of the Philippines on Friday and smashed through its central islands, with winds of 147mph (235 kmph) and a storm surge of 20ft (six metres).
Video from Eastern Samar province's Guiuan township - the first area where the typhoon made landfall - also showed a trail of devastation. Many houses were flattened and roads were strewn with debris and uprooted trees. 
Witnesses reported seeing looting and violence, with President Aquino admitting it was a major concern.
Military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala told AFP news agency that 100 soldiers had been sent to help police restore law and order in Tacloban.








Play video "Typhoon Leaves At Least 10,000 Dead"










Video:
Typhoon Leaves At Least 10,000 Dead


The United Nations said it was sending supplies but access to the worst-hit areas was a challenge.
US Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel has directed the military's Pacific Command to deploy ships and aircraft to support search-and-rescue operations and airlift emergency supplies.
The European Commission has released €3m (£2.5m) in emergency funds, while the UK is providing £6m in aid and Prime Minister David Cameron has telephoned President Aquino to offer his support.








Play video "Relatives Pray For Typhoon Victims"










Video:
Relatives Pray For Typhoon Victims


  Related Stories  Typhoon Aid Appeal Amid Urgent Relief Effort  Super Typhoon Haiyan: Miracle Baby Born  Super Typhoon Haiyan: '10,000 Could Be Dead'  Typhoon Survivors Hunt For Food 'Like Zombies' 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Breaking News: Prince Andrew Reiterates Sex Claim Denials









Former Home Secretary Leon Brittan Dies









Shy Leon Brittan Had A Turbulent Career









UK Backpacker Dies On Thai Island Koh Tao









ECB Triggers €1.1trn Quantitative Easing












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









