Makati cancels New Year's countdown to aid Hagupit victims - Linkis.com
Makati cancels New Year's countdown to aid Hagupit victims - Linkis.com













Close panel




                                        News5AKSYON                                    






The Official Twitter account of TV5 News  


n5e.interaksyon.com


                                    News5Everywhere                                

                                    News5AKSYON                                

                                    109105035678442529355                                

                                    News5Everywhere                                




Promote your business easily and effectively with Linkis
Create promo



News5 AKSYON thinks you might be interested in



















News5AKSYON
 
                    Makati cancels New Year's countdown to aid Hagupit victims
2 months ago
www.interaksyon.com/article/100884/makati-cancels-new-years-countdown-to-aid-hagupit-victims



                                Like 
                                






Share


 


Linkis
Login











        Log in via social networks    







or






Comments are available for registered users only.Sign up and authorize our application.


Your account data is broken. You can fix it right now

We were unable to connect your Twitter account
Possible causes include:

Your Twitter password changed.
You have not granted Linkis.com approval to share to your Twitter account.
Some other complicated issue we can't quite explain.

To fix this, reconnect Linkis.com to Twitter… Log in via Twitter


We were unable to connect your Facebook account
Possible causes include:

Your Facebook password changed.
You have not granted Linkis.com approval to share to your Facebook account.
Some other complicated issue we can't quite explain.

To fix this, reconnect Linkis.com to Facebook… Log in via Facebook





Experience instant customization!
Tired of manually customizing all the links in your Twitter feed? Meet our super-duper feature which makes it even easier to share!
Turn on Twitter automation


Well done! Now you can keep tweeting the way you usually do. All the boring job will be done for you by our service.
Note that you can switch Twitter automation OFF in your Settings menu




Well done! Now you can keep tweeting the way you usually do. All the boring job will be done for you by our service.
Note that you can switch Twitter automation OFF in your Settings menu


Close

Create promo

Add URL and few words about it.Everyone who visits this page will see it.Hint: set default promo in your settings.






Fetch













0/120





Save



Delete promo block?
This promo is not the same as you indicated in your settings.  By deleting current promo you will leave the block blank. Are you sure?

Yes, delete
or
Use my default promo link


Open your Twitter potential and see the profit!
People are already having fun with Linkis.com, sharing links easily and customizing them in few simple
        clicks.
It's super cool automation feature does everything for you. Sit back and have fun while we make your tweets
        beneficial!
Connect and turn on Twitter automation









Close

Close







