Jesse Matthew, man seen with missing UVa student, Hannah Graham, charged with reckless driving leaving police station | WJLA.com 
Jesse Matthew, man seen with missing UVa student, Hannah Graham, charged with reckless driving leaving police station | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Jesse Matthew, man seen with missing UVa student, Hannah Graham, charged with reckless driving leaving police station

By The Associated Press, Tom Roussey

			September 21, 2014 - 04:16 pm 
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



	CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) - A man authorities believe is the last person seen with a University of Virginia student before she disappeared is being sought on arrest warrants charging him with reckless driving.
 
	Continue reading


More on this story


Volunteers search for Hannah Graham








Police believe the man in this surveillance photo is Jesse Matthew and say he was with Hannah Graham the night she went missing. (Photo: Charlottesville Police)



	
But they say they also want to talk to him about the missing teen.
	
Virginia State Police issued warrants for 32-year-old Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. on a charge of misdemeanor reckless driving, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said at a news conference Sunday.
Matthew has not been charged in the disappearance of 18-year-old Hannah Graham, who was last seen early on Sept. 13 in Charlottesville.
	
Longo said police want to talk to Matthew, who was seen with Graham before she disappeared.
	
"I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth because it's been a week and we can't find her," Longo said.
	
"I've made no mistake about it. We want to talk to Jesse Matthew. We want to talk to him. We want to talk to him about his interaction with this sweet, young girl we can't find," Longo said.
	
Longo said Matthew had stopped by the Charlottesville Police Department's station Saturday with several family members and asked for a lawyer. He was provided with a lawyer but left in a vehicle at a high rate of speed that endangered other drivers and led to the reckless driving charge, according to the police chief. He said Matthew was there for about an hour.
	
Virginia State Police spokeswoman said in an email late Sunday that State Police officers were conducing "surveillance" of the vehicle at the time but did not pursue Matthew.
	
Matthew has been employed as a patient technician in the operating room at the University of Virginia Medical Center since Aug. 12, 2012, university spokesman McGregor McCance confirmed Monday.
	
Police said they have focused on Graham's movements the night of Sept. 12 and into the early morning hours of Sept. 13. Graham, a sophomore from northern Virginia, met friends at a restaurant for dinner, stopped by two parties at off-campus housing units and left the second party alone, police have said.
	
Surveillance videos showed her walking, and at some points running, past a pub and a service station and then onto the Downtown Mall, a seven-block pedestrian strip lined with shops and restaurants.
	
"Somebody's gotta know where she is and we want to know who that person or persons are," Longo said.
	
"I don't want to get tunnel vision just because we have a name, just because we saw her with a particular person," he said.
	
Graham's parents appeared at the news conference and her father, John Graham, appealed for anyone with any information to call a police tip line.
	
"This is every parent's worst nightmare," John Graham said. "We need to find out what happened to Hannah and make sure it happens to no one else."
	
More than 1,000 volunteers participated in a weekend search for Hannah Graham, according to authorities.
	
Graham's disappearance has sent a ripple of fear through the quiet college town of Charlottesville.  Students have said they've begun walking in pairs at night and are paying closer attention to their surroundings.
	
The university president, Teresa A. Sullivan, issued a statement Sunday saying the university was committed to helping authorities in the search for the missing woman and "return her safely to her family."
	
"We are cooperating fully with law enforcement authorities as they continue their investigation," the emailed statement said. 



Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Charlottesville, 
Virginia, 
NewsChannel 8, 
University Of Virginia, 
UVa., 
UVA, 
Missing Woman, 
Missing Student, 
Search Warrant








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Theresa Elaine Brown charged with assault and battery for allegedly biting a 13-month-old boy at a Woodbridge school



Dennis Stiles, Montgomery County pilot, volunteers to help search for missing Hoggle children



Mark Kenyetta Bowser Jr. of Capitol Heights, Md. charged in stabbing death of D.C. woman Tracy Womack












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper
















Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Philadelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny









As search continues, father believes Hoggle kids are still alive









Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

