Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham | WJLA.com 
Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham

By The Associated Press, Kevin Lewis, ABC News, ABC 7 News, Associated Press

			September 19, 2014 - 10:50 am Updated: September 21, 2014 - 12:46 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP/ABC News) - Police investigating the disappearance of a University of Virginia student said Friday evening that they have talked to a man they believe was with her in a bar the night she went missing but did not have enough information to arrest or detain him after searching his apartment and seizing his car.
Continue reading





Missing student Hannah Graham. (AP photo)






Scene of Friday's apartment search and car seizure. (Photo: WTOP)



More on this story


Parents fear 'foul play'

Police seek to question man



Volunteers met at the university's basketball arena Saturday morning before fanning out in search teams throughout Charlottesville.
Virginia Department of Emergency Management spokeswoman Dawn Eischen estimated that more than 1,100 volunteers were taking part in Saturday's search.
In an emotional appeal Friday, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo asked anyone who might have seen Hannah Graham and the man early Sept. 13 on the Downtown Mall to contact authorities.
"People saw Hannah, and people saw him, and people saw them together," Longo said.
The chief did not publicly identify the man, but said that he is 32-years-old, has dreadlocks, is 6-foot-2 and weighs 270 pounds. 
The developments came a day after police announced a $50,000 reward for information about Graham's disappearance.
Asked if he believed the 18-year-old Graham was still alive, Longo said he was "hopeful."
"I will always be hopeful until we find Hannah," he explained.
He indicated police believe Graham might have left the bar with the older man in his burnt orange 1998 Chrysler coupe.
"If you remember seeing that vehicle and seeing it drive away, we need to hear from you," Longo said at a news conference, "it's entirely possible, we believe, that Hannah Graham may have gotten into his vehicle."
He also urged anyone who might have seen the two at The Tempo bar and restaurant to call police.
"We know that he purchased alcohol (in the restaurant) and we know that Hannah Graham was with him. We also know that within 15 minutes he was gone from that bar and Hannah Graham was with him," Longo said.
Longo stopped short of calling the man a suspect, but said police were keeping an eye on him.
"I'm not calling him a suspect," Longo said. "But we're very interested in learning more about his interactions with Hannah."
Lead investigator Detective Sgt. Jim Mooney said he spoke with the man Friday morning when police executed a search warrant at his apartment in the 100 block of Hessian Hills Way, off Barracks Road, "and I want to talk to him again." He declined to say what the man told him.
Longo said police had previous contacts with the man, but he would not provide details.
According to the chief, some of the more than 400 tips police have received prompted their search of the vehicle and the off-campus apartment. He declined to say what evidence police collected.
However, he said the search of the car "established probable cause" for the subsequent search of the apartment.
Until Friday, the search had focused primarily on Graham's movements the night of Sept. 12 and into the early morning hours of Sept. 13. The sophomore from Alexandria met friends at a restaurant for dinner, stopped by two parties at off-campus housing units, and left the second party alone, police have said.
Surveillance videos showed her walking, and at some points running, past a pub and a service station and then onto the Downtown Mall, a seven-block pedestrian strip lined with shops and restaurants.
At 1:06 a.m. she texted friends that she was lost. She sent other texts, but police have said none of them reflected fear or panic.
Students and others turned out by the thousands late Thursday for a vigil. Graham's disappearance has left many on edge.
U.Va. freshmen Anna Frazier of Reston and Jefferson Sheron of Herndon strolled the Downtown Mall Friday afternoon not far from where surveillance cameras last captured Graham's grainy image.
"Before coming here, my parents said don't go anywhere by yourself," Frazier said of her arrival at U.Va. "My parents are really worried about it, which makes me more concerned. It definitely heightens your senses.
"I feel safe on (U.Va.) grounds, but I wouldn't come downtown without Jefferson here," Frazier, 18, said.
Sheron said Graham's disappearance increased his sense of responsibility to look out for his female friends.
"With all this stuff with Hannah it's first on your mind - let me walk you back to your dorm," said Sheron, also 18.
Longo said he visited with Graham's parents just before Friday evening's news conference.
"They want their daughter back. They want to know what happened to their little girl. That's all," he said.


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Charlottesville, 
Virginia, 
NewsChannel 8, 
University Of Virginia, 
UVa., 
UVA, 
Missing Woman, 
Missing Student, 
Search Warrant








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper



Tonya Reaves killed by hit-and-run SUV driver on 8th Street NW



Search continues for Hoggle kids; father believes they're still alive












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Phildelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny
















Search continues for Hoggle kids; father believes they're still alive









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper









Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Security breach prompts Secret Service to increase surveillance, patrols at White House









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

