Police recover clothes from Jesse Matthew's apartment in search for Hannah Graham, missing UVA student | WJLA.com 
Police recover clothes from Jesse Matthew's apartment in search for Hannah Graham, missing UVA student | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Police recover clothes from Jesse Matthew's apartment in search for Hannah Graham, missing UVA student

By The Associated Press, Jeff Goldberg, ABC 7 News

			September 23, 2014 - 10:34 am Updated: September 23, 2014 - 06:18 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP/ABC News) - Bags of clothing were being tested by police after authorities removed them from the apartment that belongs to the person of interest in the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, police said Tuesday.
Continue reading


More on this story


Apartment searched again

Unrelated arrest warrant issued

Apartment searched, car seized






Person of interest Jesse Matthew. (Photo: Facebook via ABC News)



The items were taken from Jesse Matthew's apartment on Monday as part of the second search warrant issued for the property, though police would not elaborate on who the clothing belonged to or how it was connected to the case.
Authorities first searched the 32-year-old's car and apartment Friday, and Charlottesville police Capt. Gary Pleasants said information that came up during the investigation led to a second search of the apartment. He would not give further details about the clothing or the search.
Police have said they hoped to receive lab results late Tuesday from items recovered during the first search, and authorities are still trying to locate the campus employee to arrest him on reckless driving charges.
But the state lab said it was still analyzing the evidence it has received, which included nearly two dozen items and eight "known samples that we would use for comparison purposes," said Jeffrey Ban, director of the Department of Forensic Science's Central Laboratory in Richmond.
	
Ban said that the lab has expedited the case and hoped to provide authorities with results in the "very near future" but noted that the lab could spend hours or even a whole day on a single piece of evidence that may have multiple stains or hairs on it. He also said it is standard procedure to test any samples against those in their database, including those from other missing persons cases in the central Virginia area.
Matthew, a patient technician in the operating room at the university's medical center, hasn't been charged in the disappearance, but authorities say they want to talk to him about  the 18-year-old Graham, a sophomore from Alexandria who has been missing since Sept. 13. Police have not offered any details about how the two may be connected other than to say Matthew was the last person seen with Graham.
Pleasants said authorities have not had contact with Matthew since Saturday, when he stopped by the Charlottesville police station with several family members for about an hour and asked for a lawyer. He was provided with one but left in a vehicle at a high rate of speed that endangered other drivers and led to the reckless driving charges, Charlottesville police Chief Timothy Longo has said.
Virginia State Police officers were conducting surveillance of the vehicle at the time but did not pursue Matthew, a spokeswoman said.
Pleasants said investigators have questioned Matthew's mother and uncle, who accompanied him to the police station. He added that search crews on Monday covered areas in the southern part of the city that had not previously been searched.
Authorities on Monday also released a wanted poster on Matthew. It says the 6-foot-2, 270-pound man was last reported on Sunday as driving his sister's 1997 light blue Nissan Sentra, and notes that he is said to have contacts in Virginia, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C.
Police said they have focused on Graham's movements the night of Sept. 12 and into the early morning hours of Sept. 13. Graham, a sophomore from northern Virginia, met friends at a restaurant for dinner, stopped by two parties at off-campus housing units and left the second party alone, police have said.
Surveillance videos showed her walking, and at some points running, past a pub and a service station and then onto the Downtown Mall, a seven-block pedestrian strip lined with shops and restaurants.
According to family members and police, Graham is an alpine skier and plays the alto saxophone. Organizers of a candlelight vigil last week at the university handed out her favorite candy, Starburst. Longo said he learned from visiting with Graham's parents that the graduate of West Potomac High School earned straight A's six years in a row.
Graham's disappearance has sent a ripple of fear through the quiet college town of Charlottesville. Students have said they've begun walking in pairs at night and are paying closer attention to their surroundings. More than 1,000 volunteers also participated in a weekend search for Hannah Graham, according to authorities.


Read More:
Virginia, 
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
University Of Virginia, 
Missing Student, 
Missing Woman, 
Crime, 
NewsChannel 8








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Only on 7: Officer's conviction tossed out in UMD beating case caught on video



Patrick Brightwell of Georgia sentenced to prison for dumpting waste into the Potomac River



Colby White, CFO of Prince George's County Public Schools, wife Keisha resign over insurance fraud allegations












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper
















Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Philadelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny









As search continues, father believes Hoggle kids are still alive









Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

