New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham    | WTKR.com  
New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham    | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham   

Posted 11:57 am, September 15, 2014, by Matt Knight, Updated at 07:53pm, September 16, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



Charlottesville, Va. – Police in Charlottesville have released new photos in the search for a missing University of Virginia student who was last heard from on Saturday.
18-year-old Hannah Elizabeth Graham hasn’t been heard from since she sent a text to friends at about 1:20 a.m. on September 13, according to a report on newsplex.com.
The Northern Virginia resident is described as a 5’11” white female with a skinny build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and has freckles. Graham was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cutouts.
The pictures released by police are of Graham in her apartment building around 9:30 p.m. the Friday she went missing. At the request of her family the address is not being released.

Police said Graham left alone from a party at 14th and Wertland Streets, in an area not from her home which she knew pretty well. Around 45 minutes later police said Hannah texted friends with the message that she was lost in the same area.
Police said she was “fairly well intoxicated” according to our sister station WTVR.
The Charlottesville Police department, Albemarle County Police department and Virginia State Police are all searching for Graham.
Anyone with information about Graham was asked to call Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (6 images)





Inline



 




Easy Pepperoni Pizza Cake recipe takes the internet by storm


Watch: Photographers fly drone so close to a volcano that the face of the camera melts


Mom sues pediatrics center, says son’s genitals damaged during circumcision


Time-lapse video: Dad takes photo of son every day for four years



Filed in: News 











 






Southern Bank
News Channel 3’s Proud Community Partner!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham



 


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’



 


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















