Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham' - The Daily Progress: Local  
Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham' - The Daily Progress: Local









            Close
        




















Place an Ad


Advertise With Us


Subscribe


Manage Subscription


Print Ads









            Welcome! 
        

Login|Signup


Login|My Dashboard|Register













Logout|My Dashboard












Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham' - The Daily Progress: Local

















62°  Scattered CloudsCharlottesville, VA
























The Daily Progress




Home
 
News



Local


UVa


Business


Crime


Economy


Politics


Virginia Politics


In Case You Missed It


Multimedia


Email Alerts


RSS Feeds

 



















 
Opinion



Letters to the Editor


Editorials


Guest Columnists


McKenzie

 



















 
Sports



Cavalier Insider


High School


Whitey 365


Ratcliffe On


College Football


Football


College Basketball


Basketball


The Daily Run


Central Virginia Golf Magazine


Virginia Outdoor Weekly

 



















 
Entertainment



Local


The Latest


Calendar


Contests


Showtimes

 



















 
Lifestyles



Yesteryears Column


Vital Signs Column


Religion


Church Directory


Celebrations

 



















 
Obituaries
 
Weather
 
Magazines



Charlottesville Woman


The Rural Virginian


Homestyle


Readers Choice


Silver Linings


Welcome

 



















 
Video
 
Contests
 
Auto



Top Autos


Find a Car


Sell Your Car

 



















 
Homes



Top Homes


Top Rentals


Sell Your Home


Commercial


Mortgage Center


Vineyards & Farms

 



















 
Classifieds



Print Ads


Top Stuff


Pets


Place an Ad

 



















 
Jobs



Find a Job


Top Jobs


Employers

 



















 
Businesses














Monday, October 6, 2014 


















Home


News



Local





Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham'

StoryComments 
Image (1)


        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Graham search - Longo
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy J. Longo addresses reporters at a briefing Sunday at a staging area for the search team looking for missing UVa student Hannah Graham.



 













        Posted: Sunday, October 5, 2014 6:14 pm
         | 
        

                Updated: 10:42 am, Mon Oct 6, 2014.
            



Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham'
By Derek Quizon
The Daily Progress 




About 110 law enforcement officers from around the state were in Albemarle County this weekend to search for clues in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Officers covered more than 70 percent of an eight-mile radius around the city of Charlottesville, following guidelines set by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
Searchers did not report any new findings Sunday afternoon but said they’re continuing to follow up on nearly 3,300 tips that have been received.
Depending on the new information coming in, officials may expand the search radius or comb through certain areas again, said Mark Eggeman, search and rescue coordinator for the Virginia Department of Emergency Management.
“If we feel there’s a need to go back and search those areas, we’ll re-task and do that,” he said.
On Sunday morning, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy J. Longo said the search party would be searching “every square inch of Albemarle County this weekend and we’re going to find Hannah Graham.”
The party included members of the Virginia State Police, as well as officers from Fairfax, Spotsylvania, Stafford and Hanover counties.
“If you can think of a law enforcement agency that touches this community, they’re here [with] boots on the ground today,” Longo said.
The group also has enlisted the help of DOGS-East, a volunteer canine search-and-rescue team out of Fredericksburg.
Sharon Johnson, one of the volunteers, was there with her German shepherd, Gyro. The dog is trained in rescue of live victims and recovery of deceased victims, Johnson said. Gyro’s skills are especially useful in uninhabited and rural areas, she said, where the dog can sniff out people or remains in thick vegetation.
“It’s proving to be a challenge,” Johnson said of the terrain. “We do the best with what we’ve got.”
Searchers will be focusing on rural areas, Longo said, and are asking residents to search their properties, as well.
First Sgt. Mike Berry, of the Virginia State Police, is leading about 60 officers around the county. The team conducted searches of 32 different designated areas on Saturday and Berry said he expected to comb through more on Sunday.
Longo and Berry said they are searching for any clues they can find — including articles of clothing or objects Graham may have been carrying when she disappeared — but both said they haven’t given up on the possibility the 18-year-old student is still alive.
“This is a rescue effort,” Berry said. “We’re here to find Hannah and bring Hannah home.”
Stranger things have happened, Eggeman said.
“How many of us thought that Elizabeth Smart was dead? Or the women kept in the basement in Ohio?” he said. “There’s always a possibility.” 
 


Derek Quizon is the Daily Progress' higher education reporter. Contact him at (434) 978-7265, dquizon@dailyprogress.com, or @DPHigherEd on Twitter.
 

























            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Local
        
        on 
        
            Sunday, October 5, 2014 6:14 pm. 
            
                Updated: 10:42 am.












 













tab 0
tab 1




























                    Like us on Facebook!
                







Latest Local Offers





        
        Summer Sales Event
        


            Summer Sales Event at Malloy Ford! Ford Certified Pre-Owned 1.9% for 60 Months APR Financing. Stop by our dealership or visit our website for more details. 






        
        This Week's Open Houses!
        


            In the market for a new house? Visit http://realestateiii.com/open-houses/ to view this week's open houses. Open houses are updated on Thursdays for the coming week. We hope you will join us. Please contact one of our Sales Associates if you don’t see your dream home on this list. They will be happy to assist you in your home search.






        
        Buy 10, Get 1 FREE!
        


            Buy 10 Gallons of Milk and Get 1 Gallon FREE!






        
        Now Accepting New Patients!
        


            Kilby Pediatrics is now accepting new patients! Call 540.829.4900 today to schedule an appointment.






        
        Gear Up and Go Sales Event!
        


            The Gear Up and Go Sales Event is going on now at Beverage Tractor. Stop by today or visit our website for more info!






        
        Moonshine Bar Grand Opening
        


            Coming soon - Moonshine Bar Grand Opening at Chauncey's Smokehouse and Bar! Like us on Facebook to stay up-to-date on the latest info!




› View more local offers





tab 0
tab 1
tab 2






























                    Featured Businesses
                


Culpeper Window & Siding IncTurn to the local team with the most experience in the region.When it's time for you to perfect the external features of your home or business, be sure to choose the family-owned and operated team with more than 25 years of experience - conveniently located right here in Culpeper County Virginia.  We provide quality windows, superior siding, great gutters and FREE Estimates. Doug's Maytag Home Appliance CenterDougs Maytag Home Appliance Center started out as Doug’s Appliance Repair in February of 1991.  Douglas and Kelly Golder began running the company out of their home and garage, where it remained for 3 years. As the company started growing, they rented a store front in the town of Scottsville, Virginia where they continued to provide excellent appliance repair service to their customers.  In, 1996 they ventured out and took advantage of an opportunity to join the Maytag Company. They now have a bigger showroom and office to better serve their customers. At this point the business name changed to Doug’s Maytag Home Appliance Center. This allowed them to sell Maytag products and still be able to maintain the repair side of the business.In 2006, Maytag was sold to the Whirlpool Corporation.  With this merger , Doug’s Maytag, added Whirlpool, Kitchen Aid, and Amana to the Maytag brand  giving more versatility and choices to their customers. Doug’s Maytag, understands the different customer demands and needs in purchasing appliances, weather for a new construction or for upgrades to an existing home,  and can advise the customer on their purchase. Doug’s Maytag offers financing and leasing programs which allows the customer flexibility with their purchaseThey have partnered with Brand source, which has helped to build the business in many different aspects. Doug’s Maytag is a sponsor of The Ronald McDonald House, Susan G. Komen, John Force Racing and Trees for the Future.  Doug’s Maytag Home Appliance Center strives to provide exceptional value thru exemplary customer service before, during and after the sale. 
Stop in or call today to see for yourself! 434-296-6952 / 434-286-6952Dixon Disposal 
Dixon Disposal provides all in one can recycling in the Charlottesville Area. Cost effective and environmentally sound services to your garbage disposal needs.
Dixon Disposal is locally owned and family run.  We work ALL DAYS except Christmas, we don’t require a contract, and we give stellar service to all of our customers. SIGN UP  for Dixon Disposal’s all-in-one-can recycling™ and make life easier and the world cleaner!
See more at: http://dixondisposal.com
 We accept check, money order, cash and PayPal payments through our website.Fantastic Sams 
Whether it's our salon service or our line of products, Fantastic Sams Culpeper gets you looking good and feeling good about how affordable we are.Epiphany Catholic SchoolThe integrated curriculum follows Diocesan guidelines for meeting each student’s educational objectives. The learning at Epiphany is a merging of Catholic values and academic precepts to form contributing and productive individuals. Epiphany strives to encourage and guide the natural curiosities and talents inherent in each child to serve, foster, and enhance a life-long relationship with our Heavenly Father.Within this environment, a qualified faculty strives to meet the spiritual, emotional, academic, physical and social needs of the student. Teachers endeavor to instill a love and desire for learning in their students. Recognizing parents as the child’s primary educators, a partnership is created to challenge students to successfully reach their potential.
Epiphany Catholic Now Enrolling! Sign up now and register for the 2014-2015 school year.  Pre-K programs available.  Visit website or call today!
 Valley Nissan of Staunton 
Valley Nissan, previously Staunton Nissan located in the Shenandoah Valley. We have been serving drivers in Staunton, VA, Harrisonburg, VA and Charlottesville, VA for years. Virginia and West Virginia drivers come to us for quality, affordable vehicles along with some of the best financing plans in VA. Contact us now to schedule your test drive! We've got a quality team, the best in the Valley to help get you into a new vehicle. Nissan Vehicles For Sale Near Harrisonburg, VA At our dealership in Staunton, VA, we proudly serve customers new vehicles from the Nissan brand. If you're looking for a new Nissan in Staunton, VA, then look no further than Valley Nissan. We have so many great new Nissan models at our Staunton, VA dealership. Stop by our showroom to get a firsthand look at one of our many top-rated vehicles. Staunton, VA Used Cars At our Staunton, VA dealership, we will help you get approved for a used car loan in minutes. Our diligent and experienced staff is committed to making your purchase of a pre-owned vehicle as easy as possible. They will make used car financing straightforward and painless, getting you on the road in no time. We understand that our customers are as different as our products, so we aim to provide financing options that are custom-tailored for their individual needs. 370Z, Altima, Armada, Cube, Frontier, GT-R, Juke, Maxima, Pathfinder, Hybrid, Quest, Rogue, Sentra, Titan, Versa, Versa Note, Xterra.
































The Daily Progress, Charlottesville, VA ©  2014 BH Media Group Holdings, Inc.  Terms and Conditions | Work With Us



TITLE



Daily Progress:


Contact Us


Email Alerts


Mobile Alerts


RSS


Site Search


Mobile Apps


Find Charlottesville Jobs




TITLE



Partners:


Cavalier Insider


Data Center


Charlottesville Tomorrow


cvillepedia


HeadlineVA




TITLE



Regional Partner Links:


Culpeper Star Exponent


Waynesboro News Virginian


Orange County Review


Madison County Eagle


Greene County Record













Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






            Need an account? Create one now.
        


























