Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTKR.com  
Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 10:17 am, September 29, 2014, by Holly Henry 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 
Charlottesville, Va. – More than two weeks after Hannah Graham vanished without a trace, there is still no sign of the missing University of Virginia student.
Hopes remain high on campus as specialized crews from the Virginia Department of Emergency Management search areas throughout Central Virginia, including rural parts of Albemarle County, according to a report from WTVR in Richmond, Va.
Professional investigative search crews canvassed areas on Route 29 in southern Albemarle County on Sunday. Crews using search dogs and ATVs to reach remote areas searching for any clues, including possibly any torn clothing as well as for misplaced tire tracks or abandoned sheds.
And of course, officials want people who saw Jesse Matthew, the man arrested on abduction with the intent to defile, the weekend Graham disappeared to come forward.
Even though Graham has been missing for over two weeks, authorities do not want the public to think the search operation is being reduced in any way, the report says.
“The operation is not being scaled back. We have a number of people who are out searching all day long and have been throughout the entire weekend. We have people here who are mapping the areas that have been searched. We’re doing systematic searches of rural property and land,” Carter Johnson with the Albemarle County Police Department said.
However, the billboards in the Richmond area that were asking people for information regarding Graham were no longer active as of Sunday.
If you have information that could help investigators, call Charlottesville Police at 434-295-3851.
Graham was officially reported missing on Sept. 14, though she was last seen in the early hours of Sept. 13.
Read more from WTVR, HERE.
Related Content:

Hampton Roads search and rescue team assists in search for Hannah Graham
Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police



Filed in: News 








			1 Comment		




 

billthom56

As the brother of yet another unsolved murder in Virginia– my sister Cathy died as part of the Colonial Parkway Murders near Williamsburg from 1986-1989– I am thrilled to see law enforcement taking another look at the unsolved murders and disappearances of so many young people.  There is clearly a pattern of unsolved murders and disappearances in Virginia from Hannah Graham all the way back to the Colonial Parkway Murders. I call upon the FBI, Virginia State Police, county and local law enforcement to continue to share resources and solve these horrible crimes , including Hannah Graham’s disappearance.
Bill Thomas
Brother of Cathleen Thomas
Colonial Parkway Murders
Los Angeles, CA




							October 3, 2014 at 9:40 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






The NewsChannel 3 App Center
Get the latest news and Live VIPIR Radar on your phone!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham   


News

Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’



 


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond



 


News

Hannah Graham search highlights Virginia drone battle


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

UPDATE: Beach crews end search after report of possible drowning on Oceanfront






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts































Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















