UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says | WTKR.com  
UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says

Posted 12:13 pm, September 29, 2014, by Becca Mitchell, Updated at 12:23pm, September 30, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew, a suspect in this month’s disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, to the death of Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington, who disappeared in 2009, a law enforcement source told CNN Monday.
Virginia State Police had said earlier that the two cases were connected by a “forensic link” but did not elaborate.
“For the past five years, the Virginia State Police has been aggressively pursuing the investigation into the disappearance and death of 20-year-old Morgan D. Harrington of Roanoke, Va. Last week, the arrest of Jesse L. Matthew Jr., 32, of Charlottesville, Va., provided a significant break in this case with a new forensic link for state police investigators to pursue. There is a still a great deal of work to be done in regards to this investigation and we appreciate the public’s patience as we move forward.
 Anyone with new information concerning the Harrington investigation is encouraged to contact the Virginia State Police at 434-352-3467 or the Jefferson Area Crime Stoppers at 434-977-4000.
Meanwhile, state police continues to dedicate the necessary resources to assist the Charlottesville Police Department through the course of its investigation and with their efforts to locate Hannah Graham. In fact, right now, the public’s focus needs to remain on helping Charlottesville Police locate and bring Hannah Graham home.“
Almost from the start, speculation was raised about the possibility of a connection between Graham’s disappearance and Harrington’s death.
“Certainly the question has arisen. It’s certainly a legitimate question,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters last week.
In a statement, James L. Camblos III, Matthew’s lawyer, said he met with his client for 2½ hours Monday but declined further comment.
“Because everything is under seal, I have not been provided with any evidence that links him to either of these cases,” he said, referring to Graham and Harrington.
Matthew will have a bond hearing on Thursday.
Morgan Harrington
According to WTVR, their sources would not indicate what Matthew may or may not have done with Harrington, however the sources indicated that the forensic evidence match showed Harrington had some sort of contact with Matthew the night she disappeared outside John Paul Jones arena on October 17, 2009. Her remains were found in January 2010 on an Albemarle County farm.
“We worked five years to get to this point, so we are relieved,” Morgan Harrington’s mother Gil said. Harrington added it was now time for her to take a step back and let investigators do their job and find Hannah.
“We are heartbroken for her family. We know what they’re going through,” Harrington told WTVR.com in the days after Graham disappeared. “Police need information. They need to process tips. Please reach out to police and do not be the filter. Even if you think it does not make sense, let police be the filter.”
Two years after Morgan Harrington’s remains were found, the FBI released a sketch of the man they said had contact with the Virginia Tech student. The sketch was released after investigators found forensic evidence that linked a 2005 sex assault in Fairfax to Harrington’s disappearance.
Courtesy: FBI
Where is Hannah?
Jesse Leroy Matthew
Hannah Graham was officially reported missing on September 14, though she was last seen the early hours of September 13.
Jesse Matthew’s car and apartment were searched five days later, on September 19, after police reviewed video and spoke with witnesses. The next day Matthew was reported to have sped away from the overt surveillance Virginia State Police had on him.
He was next named a suspect, after police received more forensic evidence.
On September 24, police in Texas were alerted to a suspicious man camping on the beach in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, approximately 1,300 miles from Charlottesville. When they ran his license plate number around 3:30 p.m., they found out he was wanted in Virginia.
Matthew was charged with giving false information to a police officer. A federal law enforcement source confirmed a phone call made from a borrowed cell phone in Louisiana, to Virginia, is how police first discovered Jesse Matthew was out of the state and on the run.
Matthew was flown back to Virginia on September 26 and taken to Albemarle County Jail. He is expected to make an initial court appearance on Thursday where he will face an abduction with intent defile charge.
Anyone with information regarding Graham’s whereabouts should call (434) 295-3851 or 1-800-THE-LOST.


Data backs claims of sex assaults at Virginia Wesleyan College


VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach


Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim


Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower

RELATED:
Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham
Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia
Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today
Hampton Roads search and rescue team assists in search for Hannah Graham
Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police
Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond
Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance
Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit
UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham
Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance
Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall
 


Filed in: News 








			1 Comment		




 

plunder pirates cheats

The new boards you can unlock primarily serve aesthetic purposes, but towards the latter end some of the boards (such as the “Black
Devil”) provide you advanced “anti-gravity” skateboarding opportunities,
which help you rack up more points and perform a variety of tricks in an anti-gravity environment.
Though proxies do change your IP address, they certainly don’t do a very good job of keeping you anonymous.
The screen resolution is above great, despite the price.




							October 1, 2014 at 1:18 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






Southern Bank
News Channel 3’s Proud Community Partner!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

The family of Morgan Harrington — a ‘true original’ — searches for answers


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail



 


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia



 


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond


News

Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts































Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















