Hannah Graham search highlights Virginia drone battle | WTKR.com  
Hannah Graham search highlights Virginia drone battle | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Hannah Graham search highlights Virginia drone battle

Posted 4:03 pm, October 2, 2014, by Matt Knight, Updated at 04:53pm, October 2, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (4 images)





Inline

 


WASHINGTON (CNN) — Charlottesville, Virginia residents could see one of the region’s biggest political footballs flying overhead this week: a drone.
The use of an unmanned aircraft was approved Tuesday by the Federal Aviation Administration to help search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. The drone deployment, while legal, highlights an ongoing political debate — at the local and state level — on whether use of the aviation technology is a violation of civil liberties.
LIVE BLOG: Search for Hannah Graham continues with use of drones, helicopters
Legal limits on unmanned aircraft use by state and local law enforcements were instituted by the Virginia state legislature in February 2013, earning the support of civil liberties proponents and marking an historic first across the nation. The moratorium lasts until July 2015, when the legislation will be reconsidered and some proponents say it can’t come quickly enough.
“There’s been an overreaction on the part of state legislatures with respect to this technology,” said Brendan Schulman, who represents drone operators as Special Counsel at Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP.


We would like to thank @VTresearch for allowing us to use their Unmanned Aerial System to help #FindHannahGraham. pic.twitter.com/Jbg0FYVrM8
— AlbemarleCoPolice (@AlbemarleCoPD) October 1, 2014

Authorities say the drone, a Aeryon SkyRanger, be used in the Charlottesville area for as long as they are useful — news that might anger proponents of the ban, where the city itself voted to outlaw the use of drones even beyond the restrictions of the state moratorium.
“Drones will spy on us without our permission in violation of our constitutional rights under the 4th Amendment,” said David Swanson, an activist who brought the initial anti-drone resolution to the Charlottesville city council, in February.
Schulman pointed out that state legislators’ “knee-jerk reaction” highlighting privacy concerns is often overblown given state laws which prohibit invasions of privacy. Instead, he said, drone opponents should consider their financial and safety benefits.
“There is absolutely no question that using a battery powered small drone is much more cost effective than a manned helicopter,” he said, noting that in some circumstances, unmanned aircraft can often replace as many as 100 ground-based volunteers.
“This is like any other technology,” he added. “There are great benefits that we can obtain from it when it’s used appropriately, and we should not curtail those benefits on the premise that the technology is always going to be abused.”
John Coggin, chief engineer of the Mid-Atlantic Aviation Partnership, said the drone being used this week will be used to “look closer” at objects of interest, and will be able to cover areas across the region too difficult to reach with an ATV or even see with a manned helicopter.
More than 50 law enforcement personnel are also participating in the search on the ground.
So far, police have searched more than 175 square miles in the mission to find Graham, which is now in its third week after she disappeared from the Downtown Mall area of Charlottesville on Sept. 13. investigators have identified Jesse Matthews, 32, as the last person seen with Graham. He’s been charged with abduction with the intent to defile.
While the search continues both on ground and in air, some groups who supported the moratorium agree that use by local law enforcement should be allowed. The Rutherford Institute, a Charlottesville-based civil liberties organization notable for its hand in advocating for the local moratorium, has rallied behind the use of drones in the Graham case.
“We are all concerned about what has happened to Hannah Graham, and if using aerial drones can find her or at least provide some leads to law enforcement, all the better,” John Whitehead, president of the Rutherford Institute, said in a statement. “The key moving forward is to ensure that appropriate civil liberties safeguards are in place, but that is a conversation for another day and time.”


Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






Southern Bank
News Channel 3’s Proud Community Partner!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham   



 


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police



 


News

Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia


News

Google reveals it’s been testing secret drone delivery for two years






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















