Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03  | Q13 FOX News  
Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03  | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03

Posted 6:22 AM, October 2, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 06:28am, October 2, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



Jesse Matthew’s booking photo in Charlottesville, VA.
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Virginia (CNN) — The man charged with the abduction of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham was also investigated for alleged sexual assault when he was in college over a decade ago.
A “criminal incident information” report released Wednesday by Christopher Newport University in Newport News, Virginia, said the alleged incident involving Jesse Matthew took place on September 7, 2003.
Matthew quit the school’s football team five days later and left the school in mid-October.
The university said federal student record privacy laws limited the amount of information it could provide publicly.
“The University is fully cooperating with law enforcement agencies,” a statement said. “The success of the criminal investigation is paramount at this time.”
Last person with Graham
Investigators believe Matthew, 32, was the last person with Graham, who was last seen September 13. He has been charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, and he is being held in jail in isolation, according to Charlottesville police.
Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of the 18-year-old, a second-year student at the university.
More than 3,000 tips to Graham’s possible whereabouts have poured in, Carter Johnson, a police spokesman, said.
As part of the search effort, police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Aerial drone search
The search for Graham now includes the use of an aerial drone — the first time, according to authorities, one has been used in the search for a missing person in the state.
The addition of the drone to the search effort comes more than two weeks after Graham disappeared from an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall.
The drone has a high-quality camera, and it will “look closer” at objects of interest, said John Coggin, chief engineer of the Mid-Atlantic Aviation Partnership and one of the members of the team operating the drone.
The drone is expected to help with the search of vast tracts of land in the area.
As the drone worked from overhead Wednesday, more than 50 law enforcement personnel participated in the search in Fairfax County.
‘New forensic link’
The search of Wednesday also included U.S. 29, outside of Charlottesville, where another woman reportedly disappeared.
The search follows reports that Virginia State Police found a “new forensic link” between the Graham case and the death of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, who went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009.
Harrington was last seen hitchhiking along U.S. 29, and her remains were found on a farm months later.
Almost from the start, speculation was raised about the possibility of a connection between Graham’s disappearance and Harrington’s death.
No arrests have been made in Harrington’s case, and the cause of her death is still under investigation.


CNN’s Chelsea J. Carter, Jason Morris, Ed Lavandera, Jean Casarez and journalist Betsy Kaufman contributed to this report.




Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: Crime, National & World News 








			1 Comment		




 

Joe

LBJ’s Great Society where they feel entitled.




							October 2, 2014 at 6:50 AM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 RED BAND SOCIETY
New Episode WED 9p
See Steven Spielberg’s latest project. Watch Red Band Society on Q13 FOX.







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’



 


National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


Crime National & World News

REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student


National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know



 


National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham


Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance


National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















