Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today | WTKR.com  
Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today

Posted 6:22 am, September 26, 2014, by Matt Knight and Darragh Copley, Updated at 08:11am, September 26, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 





GILCHRIST, Texas (CNN) – Jesse Matthew, a suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, is expected to be extradited back to Virginia on Friday, police said.
Matthew had been taken into custody this week in Texas, 1,300 miles away from the town where Graham had disappeared and where Matthew had made an appearance at a police station over the weekend.
Matthew agreed to the extradition.
He has also been questioned in connection with an alleged sexual assault nearly 12 years ago, authorities said Thursday.

Hampton Roads search and rescue team assists in search for Hannah Graham
Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police

However, no charges were filed because the woman didn’t want to go forward with the case, and investigators determined there wasn’t enough evidence to arrest Matthew back then, said Michael Doucette, the commonwealth’s attorney for Lynchburg, Virginia.
According to a statement from Lynchburg police, a woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University on October 17, 2002. Matthew was a student there for three years and played on the football team.
Matthew told authorities that the woman consented, Doucette said, adding that there were no witnesses.
On Thursday, Matthew was in a Texas court twice Thursday, once to determine whether he wanted to fight extradition to Virginia and once on a charge of giving false information to a Texas peace officer.
Jesse Matthew’s father spoke out on his behalf on Thursday, saying his son would not have harmed Graham.
“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” Jesse Matthew Sr. told CNN affiliate WTVR. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.”
“To kill or hurt somebody, that’s not my son.”
Found camping on the beach
Authorities found Matthew on a Galveston County beach after deputies got a call about a suspicious person camping there. A license plate check revealed he was wanted, CNN affiliate KPRC reported.
Matthew did not resist arrest, police said.
Mike Rodenberg, a vacationer who was fishing near the campsite when Matthew was arrested, said the big man came up to him to ask about why he was throwing some of his catch back.
“He seemed real nice. He was real soft spoken,” Rodenberg said. “(He) said he was down here from New Jersey and was looking for a job. I told him if I caught another red fish he could have it.”
Matthew told him that his name was George, Rodenberg said. Nothing really seemed out of the ordinary until the police showed up.
Lawyer: No comment at this point
Authorities had obtained an arrest warrant for Matthew on Tuesday, and police believe he was the last person with Graham.
Matthew willingly went to a Virginia police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest, Longo said. He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, police said.
Authorities are now offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
The Northern Virginia native is 5 feet 11 inches tall with a slender build and has light brown hair, blue eyes and freckles. She was last seen September 13 wearing a black crop top and capri pants. She had an iPhone in a pink case.
Police have received 1,500 tips so far in the case and are urging anyone with information to call the police tip line at 434-295-3851.
Graham was last seen in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.



Mug shots from Hampton Roads arrests


Suffolk’s Most Wanted: August 2014


Taking Action Against Crime


Photos: U.S. Marshals on the hunt for fugitives who may be hiding in Hampton Roads



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






Team 3 Professionals
Visit them today!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail



 


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham



 


News

The family of Morgan Harrington — a ‘true original’ — searches for answers


News

Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















