Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail | WTKR.com  
Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail

Posted 8:20 am, October 3, 2014, by Holly Henry 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 
Nelson County, Va. – Alexis Murphy’s aunt said parts of a letter sent by Randy Taylor’s attorney asking investigators to check for a potential link between Hannah Graham abduction suspect Jesse Matthew Jr. and the missing Nelson County teen offended her and her family. That’s according to a report from WTVR.
Taylor was convicted earlier this year of kidnapping and killing 17-year-old Alexis Murphy. Her body has not been found.
Taylor’s attorney, Michael Hallahan, asked Nelson County Commonwealth’s Attorney Andrew Martin to order additional DNA testing to see if Matthew, the man accused of abducting missing UVa. student Hannah Graham, has any link to Murphy’s case.
“There’s no reason for us to think that anyone else was involved,” Trina Murphy said.
Since Matthew’s arrest, he has been forensically linked to the disappearance of Morgan Harrington. Harrington was the Virginia Tech student who vanished in 2009. Her remains were found 101 days after she was last seen at a Metallica concert, at the University of Virginia, on Oct. 17, 2009.
Martin maintains that there is no credible evidence linking Matthew to Murphy’s abduction. Regardless, he said he will order scientific testing to rule out any speculation, WTVR reports.
“I don’t think that the DNA testing will come back to show that Jesse Matthew’s DNA was in the car,” Trina Murphy said.
She said that parts of the letter written from Hallahan to Martin were offensive. In it, Hallahan wrote that Alexis’ friends testified she liked older men.
“When you’re 17 years old, older men to you are 18, 19, 21, not 32,” said Murphy.
The letter also stated that Randy Taylor never gave the location of Alexis’ body.
“That’s a below the belt hit,” said Trina Murphy. “It really is, it’s very difficult for us as a family to know that Alexis is most likely not with us anymore; but not have closure, not have her body, not being able to go to a place where we’ve laid her to rest.”
Trina said the focus now needs to remain on the search for Hannah.
“We need to find her and we need to bring her home,” Murphy said. She said that both Taylor and Matthew are behind bars, but the search is on for Graham.
She added that said she will continue to have hope for Hannah, and pray for her family.
Read the full story from WTVR, HERE.
Related Content:

Hampton Roads search and rescue team assists in search for Hannah Graham
Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police



Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Graham 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






The NewsChannel 3 App Center
Get the latest news and Live VIPIR Radar on your phone!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance



 


News

Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham   


News

The family of Morgan Harrington — a ‘true original’ — searches for answers



 


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















