Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’ | WTKR.com  
Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’ | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’

Posted 3:23 pm, October 4, 2014, by Matt Knight, Updated at 03:30pm, October 4, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



Charlottesville, Va. – The parents of UVa. student Hannah Graham released an emotional video on Saturday pleading for help bringing their missing daughter home.
The 18-year-old was last seen exactly three weeks ago in the early hours of Saturday, Sept 13 on Charlottesville’s Downtown Mall.
“Somebody listening to me today either knows where Hannah is or knows someone who has that information,” Sue Graham said fighting back tears. “We appeal to you to come forward and tell us where Hannah can be found.”
John Graham was beside his wife’s side as she delivered a powerful statement.
“John has already said that this is every parent’s worst nightmare. That is true. But it is also nightmare for our son, James, for Hannah’s grandparents, and other members of our family as well for Hannah’s many friends here in Charlottesville and beyond.”
Graham also said that despite an individual has been charged in Hannah’s abduction, and the massive search efforts, no trace of Hannah has been found.
“Help end this nightmare for all of us. Please help us to bring Hannah home,” Sue Graham begged as her husband took his wife in his arms.
The couple again thanked the entire community as well as those who have worked so hard to find their daughter.
“We would like to again express our enormous gratitude to all those who have been involved in the search for Hannah,” Sue Graham said. “The police, the professional search teams, the people staffing the telephone tip line, UVa. students, our friends, neighbors and work colleagues — as well as the citizens of Charlottesville and the surrounding area.
The couple also thanked Charlottesville, the university and public who have contributed to the reward fund, which has grown to $100,000.
“We have been overwhelmed by the generosity of you all,” Sue Graham said fighting back tears.
Anyone with information about Graham’s whereabouts is asked to call a special tip line at 434-295-3851. 
The Search for Hannah Continues
As Virginia State Police resumed the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham Friday, the Virginia Department of Emergency Management had a special message for people headed into the weekend.
“I know there is a lot of hiking and outdoors activity with hunters and so forth,” VDEM search and rescue coordinator Mark Eggeman said. “We ask them to look at those trails. As they go out, keep their eyes open.  Tell us if you see something out of the ordinary.”
A 40-person team searched the woods of Albemarle County on Friday for Hannah. The search effort would ramp up over the weekend, Eggeman said. In addition to more searchers on the ground, VDEM expected to use canines and all-terrain vehicles.
“We’re going to focus on those areas towards the north where we continue to follow-up on investigative leads,” he said. “We’re going to try and cover an eight-mile radius.”
Cloud cover prevented an air search for Hannah on Friday.


Data backs claims of sex assaults at Virginia Wesleyan College


VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach


Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim


Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Filed in: News 








			1 Comment		




 

Mitch

Simply heartbreaking.
I fear her body could be anywhere between Charlottesville, VA  and Galveston, Texas.




							October 5, 2014 at 5:51 pm						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






The NewsChannel 3 App Center
Get the latest news and Live VIPIR Radar on your phone!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says



 


News

Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police


News

Hannah Graham search highlights Virginia drone battle


News

New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham   


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail



 


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts































Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















