Morgan Harrington’s mom says ‘possibility of good outcome’ exists for Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Morgan Harrington’s mom says ‘possibility of good outcome’ exists for Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Morgan Harrington’s mom says ‘possibility of good outcome’ exists for Hannah Graham

Posted 3:27 pm, September 16, 2014, by Scott Wise, Updated at 03:34pm, September 16, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 



 Harrington's daughter Morgan was abducted in October 2009 while she walked near the University of Virginia campus. 
ROANOKE, Va. — By the time Virginia State Police Special Agent Dino Capuzzo called to let her know another young woman was reported missing in Charlottesville, the news of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham‘s disappearance had already reached Gil Harrington.
Harrington’s daughter Morgan was abducted in October 2009 while she walked near the University of Virginia campus. Morgan Harrington‘s body was found months later on an Albemarle farm. No one has been convicted of her abduction and murder.
“You kind of go down the rabbit hole again of anguish,” Harrington said about learning of Graham’s disappearance. “We’re almost five years out from Morgan’s abduction and murder. It’s still pretty close to the surface and it’s still fragile.”
Harrington, who along with her husband Dan, formed the non-profit Help Save the Next Girl  to help prevent future abductions and support families forced to deal with the nightmare, said she was not ready to connect the dots between Morgan’s death and Graham’s disappearance.
“Your mind goes there, but I think that’s premature in a way,” she said. “We have the possibility of having a good outcome with Hannah. We need to keep that in mind.” Gil Harrington said people need to come forward and tell police everything they know about Graham.

“Police need information. They need to process tips. Please reach out to police and do not be the filter. Even if you think it does not make sense, let police be the filter,” she said.
Harrington admitted the longer the search continued for Graham, the likelihood of a good result lessens.
“The clock is ticking for Hannah,” she said.
Harrington has reached out to Graham’s family in an attempt to offer support, but has not yet spoken to Hannah’s parents.
“We are heartbroken for family. We know what they’re going through,” she said. “Every family travels this road differently. They may not want to be public.”
Last year the Harringtons did reach out to the Murphy family after 17-year-old Alexis Murphy was abducted in Nelson County.



Harrington, Murphy and Graham along with women like Samantha Clarke and Alicia Showalter Reynolds all disappeared from an area known as the Route 29 corridor. That geographic connection has helped earn Route 29 an infamous reputation.

“I don’t know. Either there is a commonality or a crime spree,” Harrington said about the Route 29 connection. “We have long passed a critical mass that needs looking at. If you look at the map of missing and abducted along Route 29 – it’s not a normal pattern.”
Graham, 18, was last seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street at about 12:45 a.m. Saturday, Charlottesville Police Capt. Gary Pleasants said. Police described Graham as a 5’11” white female with a  skinny build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. She was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs.
Anyone with information about Graham was asked to call Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.


Same-sex couple exchanges marriage vows in ceremony outside Richmond court


Teen now charged with first-degree murder in death of ‘tiny hero’ Marty Cobb


Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed


As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Morgan Harrington, University of Virginia 











 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Morgan Harrington’s mom: Hannah Graham, Morgan vanished same time of year


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington


News

Family of Morgan Harrington — a ‘true original’ — searches for answers


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state



 


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Authorities probe unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham mystery


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance



 


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Drones deployed over Virginia to search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















