Police now think UVa. student Hannah Graham’s last text was incorrect | WTVR.com  
Police now think UVa. student Hannah Graham’s last text was incorrect | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Police now think UVa. student Hannah Graham’s last text was incorrect

Posted 1:21 am, September 17, 2014, by Alix Bryan and Melissa Hipolit, Updated at 12:28pm, September 17, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





UPDATE: Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Tuesday afternoon a helicopter searched the area outside of McGrady’s Irish Pub where 18-year-old Hannah Graham was last spotted on surveillance video, at 12:46 a.m. Saturday.
Graham, a second year University of Virginia student, can be seen on the street alone and headed in the opposite direction of her apartment, police said.
“I’ve been trying not to cry about it,” said Kristin who lives nearby.

She said the helicopter is an eerie reminder for UVa students who run or walk in this area, and now worry about their own safety.
“Even as I was walking tonight, I was thinking about this,” she said.


VSP search helicopter flies over area where #HannahGraham was last seen on surveillance video. @CBS6 pic.twitter.com/DpRWxm11Gl
— Melissa J. Hipolit (@MelissaCBS6) September 16, 2014

Graham has now been missing for nearly four days and the groups of several different search teams still have not found any sign of her. Unfortunately, police said, the family did not know Graham was missing until Sunday.
Police did say a blood hound picked up Graham’s scent right outside the Irish pub; but where it led them, they’re not saying.
“I don’t want to get into any more details about the dog track, we’ve got things to follow up on,” said Police Capt. Gary Pleasants.
Search teams originally combed through other parts of Charlottesville on Monday, after they read a text Graham sent at 1:20 a.m., which stated that she was lost near 14th and Wertland Streets.
Now investigators don’t believe she was in that area at all.
“We don’t know whether it was auto correct on her phone or she just typed it in wrong, we have no idea,” Capt. Pleasants said.
He said police are now working with the Federal Bureau of Investigations to retrieve phone data that might show where that text was sent from.
“A lot of things happen when you send out messages and text, and we’re following that,” Pleasants said. Police said Graham was “fairly well intoxicated” at the time she was last seen.
The timeline of the last hours anyone heard from her is as follows:

11: 50 p.m. Friday, Graham was last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in the 200 block of 14th Street NW.
12:45 a.m. Saturday she was seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street.
1:20 a.m. Saturday, she sends a text to friends saying she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets.

Google maps indicates the distances between these places would make for substantial walks, especially for person “fairly well intoxicated,” as police and friends say she was.
Pleasants said the camera outside McGrady’s Irish Pub showed Graham walking “in front of the building for several minutes, apparently it appears, maybe even talking to someone, and then walking away –leaving east bound on Grady at 12:46 a.m..”
That would be the opposite direction of her apartment, police said.
Graham is from Northern Virginia, and it is reported that she graduated from West Potomac High School in Fairfax County, in 2013.

Police described Graham as a 5’11” white female with a skinny build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. She was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs.
Anyone with information about Graham was asked to call Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.
“Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends. She is highly responsible and organized,” her family said in a statement released through the University Tuesday.
“We express our sincere gratitude to law enforcement and everyone who is involved in the search for Hannah. We also thank the University for the full attention they are devoting to the situation. The kindness and support of so many – her friends at U.Va., particularly her friends on the Ski Team, her friends from high school, our neighbors, and the larger community – mean so much to us at this difficult time.”


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Police announce new clues in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham



 


News

Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police



 


News

Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Tempo Bar owner: We did not serve Hannah Graham alcohol






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















