Search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham has profound impact on childhood friend | WTVR.com  
Search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham has profound impact on childhood friend | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham has profound impact on childhood friend

Posted 7:19 am, September 24, 2014, by VCU iPadJournos, Updated at 08:16am, September 24, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 


RICHMOND, Va. — As the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham entered a crucial stage with an arrest warrant issued for suspect Jesse Matthew Jr., high school friends and acquaintances of Graham who now attend Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond contemplate what might have happened to her.
In interviews with the iPadJournos project for WTVR.com, the former West Potomac High School students talked about their time with Graham in Fairfax and how her disappearance on Sept. 13 has affected their own lives as college students.
VCU sophomore Sydney Maniglia (#3) played softball in high school with Hannah Graham (#11). (PHOTO: Sydney Maniglia)
Sydney Maniglia, a VCU sophomore who studies fashion merchandising, has known Graham as a friend and neighbor since she was seven years old. She said she still remembered when the Grahams moved to Fairfax from England and Hannah Graham was so self-conscious about her accent that she tried to adopt an American accent to fit in.
“She was probably the most well-rounded person I’ve ever met,” Maniglia said. “She’s very intellectual, caring and knew exactly what to say.”
Click here to listen to an interview with Sydney Maniglia about her friend Hannah Graham.
Maniglia and Graham grew up playing softball together and took turns switching between center field and left field for the high school team. Maniglia said Graham’s parents went to every one of their softball games.
It wasn’t until Maniglia saw Graham’s parents on television speaking about her disappearance that reality sank in.
“She cared about everyone,” Maniglia said. “She was always worried about how everyone else was doing and was really involved in everyone’s life. She was really approachable. She really did care.”
Sean Wright, who studies psychology at VCU, said that he was “shaken” when he learned of Graham’s disappearance. Wright played in the marching band with Graham and although he is two years older than her, they took many of the same band classes together.
“You think these things don’t happen and we pretend that it’s never going to happen to me, never going to happen to somebody I know, until it actually does,” Wright said. “Then that’s when it settles in and you’re thinking, ‘This is a reality.’”

Wright said Graham was very passionate about the band and played the saxophone. In high school she was very outgoing, respectable and diligent in her studies. He said she always played by the rules and never caused any trouble.
Wright added Graham’s disappearance has brought some of their old friends closer together to support each other in an emotionally trying time. The disappearance has also brought a refreshed awareness to student safety at VCU, he said.
As a residential assistant at VCU, Wright has put a lot of thought into a buddy system and insisted that people think twice before walking home alone.
Maniglia echoed the sentiments.
“I’ve definitely been a lot more conscious about what I’m doing and what my body language is, if I ever am to walk home alone,” Maniglia said. “But I definitely haven’t walked home alone since she’s been missing.”
“It could happen to anybody and you always need to keep your guard up,” she said. “There’s no excuse to walk home alone.”
Sami Kadonoff, a mutual acquaintance of Maniglia and Graham, said that it has been especially hard since they all knew Graham as a smart and respectful person.

Kadonoff said this past week has been really heartbreaking for her and called seeing Graham’s face in media coverage overwhelming at times. Taking to Maniglia about Graham, she said, was not the same as talking to other friends who see Graham as just another victim in the news.
“When I talk to other people [about Hannah’s disappearance], it’s just different,” Kadonoff said.
In a latest development in the case, the Charlottesville Police Department has an arrest warrant for 32-year-old Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. for abduction with intent to defile Graham.
By Rachel Mahoney and Michael Melkonian (Special to WTVR.com)
This story was reported by the “iPadJournos” mobile and social media journalism project, a cooperation between WTVR.com and VCU’s Richard T. Robertson School of Media and Culture.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham, iPadJournos 











 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police announce new clues in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know



 


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Drones deployed over Virginia to search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham searchers have an important message for Virginia hunters and hikers


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Police now think UVa. student Hannah Graham’s last text was incorrect


News

Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state


News

Richmond billboards aid in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















