Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham and Morgan Harrington cases | WTVR.com  
Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham and Morgan Harrington cases | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington

Posted 9:43 am, September 29, 2014, by Laura French, Scott Wise, Alix Bryan, Nick Dutton and Web Staff, Updated at 01:22am, September 30, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — The man suspected of abducting 18-year-old Hannah Graham from the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville, Virginia earlier this month is forensically linked to the 2009 disappearance of 20-year-old Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington, sources close to the investigation confirmed to CBS 6 reporter Laura French.
Those sources indicated that forensic evidence belonging to Graham suspect Jesse Matthew Jr., matched forensic evidence collected during the Harrington investigation.
Jesse Matthew Jr. forensically linked to both Morgan Harrington (left) and Hannah Graham (right).
The sources would not indicate what Matthew may or may not have done with Harrington, however the sources indicated that the forensic evidence match showed Harrington had some sort of contact with Matthew the night she disappeared outside John Paul Jones arena on October 17, 2009. Her remains were found in January 2010 on an Albemarle County farm.
“For the past five years, the Virginia State Police has been aggressively pursuing the investigation into the disappearance and death of 20-year-old Morgan D. Harrington of Roanoke, Va,” Virginia State Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller wrote in an email following the CBS 6 News report. “Last week, the arrest of Jesse L. Matthew Jr., 32, of Charlottesville, Va., provided a significant break in this case with a new forensic link for state police investigators to pursue. There is a still a great deal of work to be done in regards to this investigation and we appreciate the public’s patience as we move forward.”
Jesse Matthew Jr. (PHOTO: Charlottesville Police)
“We worked five years to get to this point, so we are relieved,” Morgan Harrington’s mother Gil said. Harrington added it was now time for her to take a step back and let investigators do their job and find Hannah.
“We are heartbroken for her family. We know what they’re going through,” Harrington told WTVR.com in the days after Graham disappeared. “Police need information. They need to process tips. Please reach out to police and do not be the filter. Even if you think it does not make sense, let police be the filter.”
Two years after Morgan Harrington’s remains were found, the FBI released a sketch of the man they said had contact with the Virginia Tech student. The sketch was released after investigators found forensic evidence that linked a 2005 sex assault in Fairfax to Harrington’s disappearance.
“Throughout the past nine years our detectives have worked continually and diligently to positively identify a suspect in this case,” Fairfax Police spokesman Sgt. Natalie Hinesley wrote in a statement about the status of the sexual assault investigation. “Details of the investigation and any related evidentiary information will not be disclosed at this time in order to protect the integrity of the investigation and any possible prosecution.”
Charlottesville community relieved 
There was a palpable sense of cautious relief through the Charlottesville community and on grounds of UVa. as news spread of the link between Matthew and Harrington.
“Hearing this connection it’s a start,” said one UVa. student. “We want to make sure everyone around grounds is safe.”
Another student said that since the mystery man has finally been caught she feels less on edge.
“He’s not out there anymore, so it is a great relief,” said one student. “My mom has been really worried about the safety of Charlottesville and it’s really reassuring now to know that the guy who is suspected of Hannah Graham and Morgan Harrington cases —  he’s been caught.”
Students at colleges across the state are now coming together to show their support for Graham. In fact, a candlelight vigil will take place at Randolph-Macon College in Ashland  on Tuesday at 8 p.m. outside the student center.
In the Alexandria neighborhood where Graham’s family lives, yellow ribbons line the streets where Graham’s parents live as a show of support for the family from the community.
Despite having a suspect behind bars, many people are still searching for the missing 18-year-old.
Composite sketch of suspect in Morgan Harrington murder case. (PHOTO: FBI)



Where is Hannah?
Hannah Graham was officially reported missing on September 14, though she was last seen the early hours of September 13.
Jesse Matthew’s car and apartment were searched five days later, on September 19, after police reviewed video and spoke with witnesses. The next day Matthew was reported to have sped away from the overt surveillance Virginia State Police had on him.

He was next named a suspect, after police received more forensic evidence.
On September 24, police in Texas were alerted to a suspicious man camping on the beach in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, approximately 1,300 miles from Charlottesville. When they ran his license plate number around 3:30 p.m., they found out he was wanted in Virginia.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (3 images)





 


Matthew was charged with giving false information to a police officer. A federal law enforcement source confirmed a phone call made from a borrowed cell phone in Louisiana, to Virginia, is how police first discovered Jesse Matthew was out of the state and on the run.
Matthew was flown back to Virginia on September 26 and taken to Albemarle County Jail. He is expected to make an initial court appearance on Thursday where he will face an abduction with intent defile charge.
Anyone with information regarding Graham’s whereabouts should call (434) 295-3851 or 1-800-THE-LOST.





One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew, Morgan Harrington 











 






Heroes Among Us
Who is the hero in your life? Click here to nominate them so Greg McQuade and CBS 6 News can share their story.







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

How easily was Jesse Matthew’s DNA taken and tested in Hannah Graham case?


News

Morgan Harrington’s mom: Hannah Graham, Morgan vanished same time of year



 


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Authorities probe unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham mystery


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Family of Morgan Harrington — a ‘true original’ — searches for answers



 


News

Drones deployed over Virginia to search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Sexual assault filed against Jesse Matthew at Christopher Newport University in 2003






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















