Students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 11:33 pm, September 30, 2014, by Chelsea Rarrick, Updated at 12:21am, October 1, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





ASHLAND, Va. – The disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham has not only touched the people in Central Virginia but around the country.
To show their support for Hannah Graham and her family, hundreds attended a candlelight vigil Tuesday night at Randolph-Macon College in Ashland.
“It’s definitely hit home especially for college students because it’s so real to us,” said RMC student, Tim Eicher.
The night was also about raising awareness for women’s safety on campus and around the area.
“It really has made us think there are dangerous people and dangerous situations out there, but we always think to ourselves so I’ll be fine,” said RMC student, Delaney Sheire.
Graham has been missing since Sept. 13 and Charlottesville Police have charged Jesse Matthew with abduction with intent to defile.
Still, those at Randolph-Macon have a message in the search to bring Hannah home.
“Keep strong, keep the faith strong, The Lord has a plan for everything,” Eicher said.
Additionally, students at the University of Virginia are organizing a massive “group hug” that will take place Friday at 3 p.m. on the lawn.
Randolph-Macon students hold candlelight vigil for missing UVa,. student Hannah Graham
Where is Hannah Graham?
It was late on a Friday night and a freckled, blue-eyed University of Virginia student named Hannah Graham was partying in downtown Charlottesville, Virginia.
Graham, described as an accomplished athlete and straight-A student, was seen various times before her disappearance in the early hours of September 13.
She was at a party and later at an apartment complex, just blocks away. A surveillance camera caught her outside a pub, where she was turned away.
She was next seen running past a gas station, and witness accounts have her walking onto the Downtown Mall, a pedestrian thoroughfare lined with restaurants and shops. There were a few people out walking around, and surveillance cameras help capture the track Graham took.
A surveillance camera at an Italian cafe captured her walking eastbound along the mall about 1:06 a.m. A camera at a jewelry store recorded her passing two minutes later.
That camera footage appears to show her walking with Matthew, and a witness collaborated that he say Graham approached by a man who put his arm around her.
Matthew was originally spotted on the camera at the Italian café, headed the opposite direction as Graham. The video shows him cross over and fall into step behind Graham, heading eastbound.
Police said that at 1:20 a.m., she texted her friends to say she was lost and trying to find a party.
However, she told her friends, according to police, that she was lost at a location near her apartment – which was 1.5 miles from where she was spotted on camera ten minutes before the text.
She and a man were seen having drinks at a bar between 1:30 and 2 a.m. was what police have said.
The owner of the restaurant released a statement that Matthew had been inside the bar, but Graham had not.
She may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
John Graham speaks as his wife, Sue, clutches their daughter’s favorite white rabbit and good luck charm.
Hannah left behind ‘guardian angel’
Hannah Graham’s parents  spoke lovingly of their 18-year-old daughter, who they described as someone who loved helping people.
“Last Spring Break, instead of hanging around on the beach, she spent a week in Tuscaloosa rebuilding houses,” her father said.
John Graham then pulled out a small, stuffed animal. Hannah’s favorite stuffed animal, BB, was given to the girl when she was less than a week old. But the pair became separated when he dropped his daughter off at UVa. for the start of the semester.
“When I returned home, Hannah had left this little guy behind,” he said. “She was her guardian angel until she returned to school last month.”
Hannah had once lost BB as a child, but the animal was safely returned to her.
John and Sue Graham begged anyone who had information into the whereabouts of Hannah Graham daughter, a second-year University of Virginia student, to come forward.
“This is every parent’s worst nightmare,” John Graham said. “We need to find out what happened to Hannah to make sure it doesn’t happen to anyone else.”
Anyone with info is asked to call the tipline at 434-295-3851.
All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.
Depend on CBS 6 News and WTVR.com for the latest updates on this important story. 


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Ashland, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Randolph-Macon College, University of Virginia 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham has profound impact on childhood friend


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham



 


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Police search for ‘person of interest’ in UVa. student Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham beseech students to be safe this weekend


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

University of Virginia students, football fans wear ‘Hope for Hannah’ ribbons



 


News

‘You make things good Hannah Graham, where are you?’ friend says at vigil


News

All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts




























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















