Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)  | Q13 FOX News  
Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)  | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						
















Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)

Posted 7:11 AM, September 18, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 07:26am, September 18, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (4 images)









(CNN) — Several surveillance videos show her walking and running alone. But police say new footage of a missing University of Virginia student appears to show someone following her the night she disappeared.
Business surveillance cameras along the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville, Virginia, captured video of a man following Hannah Graham early Saturday, Charlottesville Police spokesman Lt. Ronnie Roberts told CNN.
A man later came to the police department and told officers he was following Graham because she looked distressed, authorities said.
The man said he saw her with another man and they appeared to know each other, but police said the second man is not seen in the videos.
Police have been searching for the 18-year-old sophomore since Sunday.
For more information on Hanna Graham’s disappearance, click here to head to WTVR
Her parents say they’re worried something happened to her after she left a gathering with friends Friday night in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“Hannah is beyond precious to us,” John and Susan Graham said in a statement released by police Wednesday. “We are truly devastated by her disappearance. It’s totally out of character for us not to have heard from her, and we fear foul play.”
The teen’s mysterious disappearance comes nearly five years after the unsolved killing of another student in the area, sparking fears from some that there could be a connection.
Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009. Her remains were found on a farm months later. Police have yet to track down her killer, and her family has long said they suspected there could be other victims.
Could there be a link to the Harrington case?
“Certainly the question has arisen. It’s certainly a legitimate question,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters Wednesday.
“If there comes a time where we believe there is a substantive link to those two investigations, we’ll share that with you,” he said.
So far, the police chief said, investigators haven’t found anything to tie the two cases. And they haven’t found any sign of foul play, despite the concerns the teen’s parents have expressed.
“As a parent, I’d be very concerned, but we don’t have any substantive evidence to confirm that,” he said. “But you know, they’re speaking from their heart.”
Surveillance videos offer clues
Police describe Graham, a sophomore, as a straight-A student, an accomplished athlete and a good friend.
She’s about 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles, the university said in a release asking for tips about the teen’s disappearance.
She left a dinner with a group of friends around 11 p.m. Friday. Around 1:20 a.m. Saturday, she sent a text to friends saying she was lost, CNN affiliate WTVR reported.
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
Investigators have tracked down several surveillance videos that show her that night outside a pub, near a gas station and in a downtown shopping mall, Longo said. But it’s not clear where she’s going or whether she’s in trouble.
One video shows her running along the road near a Shell station.
That initially concerned investigators, Longo told reporters.
But in later videos, he said “it does not appear at least at that point that she’s being pursued.”
Investigators are looking for more surveillance videos that they believe could show Graham in downtown Charlottesville, where a witness spotted her.
They’ve interviewed 50 people and received 100 tips in the case, police said.
And the search is far from over. As time passes, investigators say their search area grows. Search teams from the Virginia Department of Emergency Management are helping, CNN affiliate WVIR reported.
“This investigation has been aggressive and will continue to be aggressive,” Longo said.
CNN affiliate: Corridor has ‘infamous reputation’
Gil Harrington told CNN affiliate WTVR that it’s too soon to draw a direct connection between her daughter’s death and Graham’s disappearance.
“Your mind goes there, but I think that’s premature in a way,” she told WTVR. “We have the possibility of having a good outcome with Hannah. We need to keep that in mind.”
Right now, Gil Harrington has a poster with pictures of the University of Virginia student on her fridge, beneath the word “MISSING.”
Through “Help Save the Next Girl,” an organization founded after her daughter’s disappearance and death, she’s pushing residents of Charlottesville to call in tips.
On Wednesday, the organization tweeted that the Harringtons had left a message in large letters taped on Charlottesville bridge spelled out their support of the search: “PLEASE FIND HANNAH.”
“Your mind just sickens,” Gil Harrington told CNN affiliate WVIR. “You think, how can it be, another girl taken.”
This isn’t the first time a woman has gone missing in the area. The disappearances of Harrington and Graham, along with several other past cases in the area known as the Route 29 corridor has given the area an “infamous reputation,” WTVR says.
“I don’t know. Either there is a commonality or a crime spree,” Harrington told WTVR. “We have long passed a critical mass that needs looking at. If you look at the map of missing and abducted along Route 29 — it’s not a normal pattern.”



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















CRAIG FERGUSON IS BACK!
Watch “Celebrity Name Game” weeknights beginning at 6p on Q13 FOX.












Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68










Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student


National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student


National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham






Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


Crime National & World News

REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student






National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















