Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student | Q13 FOX News  

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						
















Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student

Posted 2:11 PM, September 21, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



(CNN) — More than a week has passed since University of Virginia student Hannah Graham disappeared, and police are certain that somebody must know something.
“Somebody’s got to know where she is, and we want to know who that person or persons are,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters Sunday.
Specifically, authorities want to talk to Jesse Matthew, a man Longo believes was the last person with Graham.

Graham, 18, was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the downtown mall.
Using surveillance video and witness statements, authorities have tracked Graham along the mall, where she was seen walking with a man Longo thinks was Matthew.
“I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth,” the police chief said. “We want to talk to him.”
Authorities have searched Matthew’s apartment and car but have declined to say what — if anything — was found. They are offering a $50,000 reward for “information leading to the cause” of Graham’s disappearance.
Matthew willingly went to a police station this weekend, walking through the front door and asking for a lawyer, the police chief said.
Matthew and the lawyer spoke and then left, Longo said, giving detectives no clearer picture of what may have happened the day Graham disappeared.
Separately, police have obtained an arrest warrant for Matthew on suspicion of reckless driving. While authorities were tracking his movement, they saw him get into a car and drive so fast and so dangerously that police were forced to back off, Longo said.
The police chief added: “I hope and pray that we might have an opportunity to talk to Jesse Matthew again because I think he can help up find Hannah Graham.”


CNN’s Chelsea J. Carter and Eric Fiegel contributed to this report.




Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 Q13 FOX NEWS AT 11
Tracking Tomorrow Tonight. 
It’s 30 minutes focused exclusively on how tonight’s developing news will impact you tomorrow. 
And how the weather you felt today will affect what you see outside in the morning.
Q13 FOX News at 11












Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68










Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham


Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student


National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach






National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham






National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)


Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















