Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student | Q13 FOX News  
Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						
















Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student

Posted 4:39 PM, September 24, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 07:10pm, September 24, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 Missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham and suspect Jesse Matthew. (WTVR photo) 

(CNN) — The only known suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham was in custody Wednesday night.


Jesse Matthew, who had been sought on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile, was arrested in Galveston County, Texas. He was found on the beach in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, according to that county’s sheriff’s office.
“We have a person in custody, but there’s a long road ahead of us, and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters.
He declined to go into the circumstances of Matthew being taken into custody. An extradition process is under way for the 32-year-old Matthew, who is also wanted on suspicion of two counts of reckless driving, Longo said.

According to CNN affiliate KPRC, deputies got a call about a suspicious person camping on the beach. One responded, and ran the license plate of that person’s vehicle. It came back as wanted, the affiliate reported.
Matthew did not resist arrest, KPRC said.
Earlier, Matthew’s lawyer was mum about most everything.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” said James Camblos, who spoke outside his office in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not,” he said.
His comments came one day after authorities obtained an arrest warrant for his client, who police believe was the last person with Graham.
She was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Investigators have been looking for her since, and in an increasingly large area.
“We’re asking for a broader community search with property owners,” Longo told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360,” in an interview to air Wednesday night.
Specifically, he said he wants property owners of large parcels in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities have previously searched Matthew’s apartment and car. Although they have declined to discuss the specifics of what might have been found, potential evidence was sent to a lab for analysis.
According to Longo, Matthew willingly went to a police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest.
He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, Longo said.
Camblos confirmed that he was the attorney who met with Matthew at the police station.
“I’m not telling you anything else at this point,” he said.
Authorities are now offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
They have received 1,500 tips so far in the case, and are urging anyone with information to call the police tip line at 434-295-3851.
“We’re asking every person within the sound of my voice to help us find Hannah Graham,” Longo, the police chief, said.

CNN’s Jean Casarez contributed to this report.








Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








			1 Comment		




 

Joe

The rabid disease spreads; this will be your kid’s zombie apocalypse, but it won’t be funny.




							September 24, 2014 at 6:19 PM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 RED BAND SOCIETY
New Episode WED 9p
See Steven Spielberg’s latest project. Watch Red Band Society on Q13 FOX.












Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68










Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women






National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham






Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student


Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















