Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody | fox4kc.com  
Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody

Posted 7:27 pm, September 24, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 


The wanted poster for Jesse Leroy Matthew, Jr, the person of interest in the missing UVA student case.
(CNN) — Jesse Matthew, wanted in the case of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, is in custody, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said Wednesday.
For up-to-the-minute updates for this story, please follow our sister station WTVR. 
Matthew, who was found in Galveston, Texas, had been sought on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile.
“This case is nowhere near over,” Longo told reporters. “We have a person in custody, but there’s a long road ahead of us, and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham.”
The police chief declined to go into the circumstances of Matthew being taken into custody. It was not immediately clear whether he had surrendered.
An extradition process is under way for the 32-year-old Matthew, who is also wanted on suspicion of two counts of reckless driving, Longo said.
Earlier, Matthew’s lawyer was mum about most everything.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” said James Camblos, who spoke outside his office in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not,” he said.
His comments came one day after authorities obtained an arrest warrant for his client, who police believe was the last person with Graham.
She was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Investigators have been looking for her since, and in an increasingly large area.
“We’re asking for a broader community search with property owners,” Longo told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360,” in an interview to air Wednesday night.
Specifically, he said he wants property owners of large parcels in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities have previously searched Matthew’s apartment and car. Although they have declined to discuss the specifics of what might have been found, potential evidence was sent to a lab for analysis.
According to Longo, Matthew willingly went to a police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest.
He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, Longo said.
Camblos confirmed that he was the attorney who met with Matthew at the police station.
“I’m not telling you anything else at this point,” he said.
Authorities are now offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
They have received 1,500 tips so far in the case, and are urging anyone with information to call the police tip line at 434-295-3851.



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Graham, Jesse Matthew 











 






 810Varsity.com
Watch live high school games + scores, standings, stories!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond


News

Parents make desperate plea to help find their daughter


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder



 


News

Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham


News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham


News

Missing student Hannah Graham spotted on video walking in opposite direction of apartment


News

Dangers from exotic animals, leaving kids in hot car: Mo. couple charged with wide variety of child abuses


News

Police announce formal arrest in death of little girl in Leavenworth



 


News

Home invasion, shooting in Independence


Entertainment News

Miley Cyrus’ VMA date wanted by Oregon police


News

Texas girl Sabrina Allen, missing for 12 years, recovered with mother in Mexico






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















