UPDATED: Police seek 'person of interest' in Hannah Graham disappearance - INSIDENOVA.COM: Headlines  
UPDATED: Police seek 'person of interest' in Hannah Graham disappearance - INSIDENOVA.COM: Headlines







            Close
        












Place a Classified Ad


Subscribe







Contact Us








            Welcome! 
        

Login|Signup


Login|My Dashboard|Register













Logout|My Dashboard





















UPDATED: Police seek 'person of interest' in Hannah Graham disappearance - INSIDENOVA.COM: Headlines

























INSIDENOVA.COM




Home
 
News



Community News


Crime & Police


Education


Military


Politics


Business


Submit News


Local weather


Blogs

 



















 
Sports



Football


High School


Submit Sports

 



















 
Lifestyles



Health


Faith


Columnists

 



















 
Obituaries
 
Photos/Video



Photo Galleries


Videos


Submit Photos


Submit Videos

 



















 
Special Features



Promotions and Contests


Best Of


High-Heeled Happy Hour


Special Sections

 



















 
Things To Do



Calendar


Submit an Event

 



















 
About Us



Contact Us


Advertise


Subscription Services


Submission Forms


e-Edition


Site Index


Online Features

 



















 
Business Directory
 
Classifieds



Cars


Homes


Pets


Merchandise


Apartments

 



















 
Jobs
















 Dulles, VA  | Now: 64° | High: 61° | Low: 33° | 5-Day Forecast


























Home


Headlines





UPDATED: Police seek 'person of interest' in Hannah Graham disappearance

StoryCommentsImage (3)


        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






missing girl.jpeg
University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham of Fairfax County was last seen Sept. 13 in Charlottesville. Surveillance video showed her with Jesse "LJ" Matthew Jr.







missing girl 2.jpeg
University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham of Fairfax County was last seen on Sept. 13.







Composite sketch Morgan Harrington case
FBI sketch of unknown suspect in murder of Morgan Harrington and 2005 rape in Fairfax city.



 














        Posted: Thursday, September 18, 2014 4:30 pm
         | 
        

                Updated: 7:50 pm, Tue Sep 23, 2014.
            



UPDATED: Police seek 'person of interest' in Hannah Graham disappearance
Amanda Stewart
Northern Virginia Media Services
                    
             | 
                        0 comments
                    











Posted on Sep 18, 2014
by
                    
Amanda Stewart







Charlottesville police this afternoon released a description of a "person of interest" in the disappearance of University of Virginia sophomore and Northern Virginia native Hannah Graham.
Detectives have been studying surveillance video showing the 18-year-old West Potomac High School graduate walking around downtown Charlottesville late Friday and early Saturday. Police have talked to one man seen in a video following Graham, who said he was concerned about her and wanted to see if she needed help. He told detectives that another man, whom he described as black, came up and put his arm around her. 
That man, despite heavy news coverage, has not come forward.
He is described as black, 5 feet 10 to 5 feet 11 inches tall and  250 to 285 pounds, with a close shaved head, goatee and a slight "beer belly." He was described as being in his late 20s to early 30s and wearing black jeans and a white t-shirt, police said in a news release.
As the search for Graham entered its fifth day, fears that something sinister happened to her intensified. Police said they are well aware of the similarities between Graham’s disappearance and the 2009 abduction and murder of 20-year-old Morgan Harrington, who vanished at a Metallica concert on the U.Va. campus.
DNA connected her still-uncaught killer to a 2005 sexual assault in Fairfax city, also unsolved. In that case, the attacker was scared off by a passerby. Based on the witness descriptions, a composite sketch of the suspect showed an African American male, but police have never said if they know his race.
Charlottesville police Chief Timothy Longo on Wednesday said his focus is on finding Graham, but when asked he said police had checked the area in Albermarle County where Harrington’s body was found three months after she disappeared.
Hannah Graham's family said she would never disappear on her own and they fear foul play.
The case is one of many disappearances of young women in central Virginia.
Last year, 17-year-old Alexis Murphy left her home for Lynchburg to get her hair done and vanished Aug. 3. Her car was found abandoned Aug. 6 in Charlottesville.
Police arrested Randy Allen Taylor, 48, in the teen’s disappearance. Earlier this year, Taylor was convicted of abduction and murder, though Alexis’ body has never been found.
And there are other unsolved disappearances and murders centered around the Charlottesville area dating back to the 1994 abduction of Alicia Showalter Reynolds. The 25-year-old Baltimore woman vanished while traveling along U.S. 29 to go dress-shopping for a family member’s wedding, a victim of the so-called U.S. 29 Stalker. Her body was found several months later in a logging camp in Culpeper. No one has ever been charged in her slaying.
A more recent case is the 2012 disappearance of 19-year-old Samantha Anne Clarke, who left her Orange County townhouse and hasn’t been seen again.
As the search for Hannah Graham continues, her family thanked law enforcement for its efforts, and the community for its outpouring of support. They said that although they are British, Graham has lived in Virginia since she was 5, and it is home.
 “We express our sincere gratitude to law enforcement and everyone who is involved in the search for Hannah. We also thank the university for the full attention they are devoting to the situation. The kindness and support of so many – her friends at U.Va., particularly her friends on the ski team, her friends from high school, our neighbors, and the larger community – mean so much to us at this difficult time.”
 


 


More about Headlines

ARTICLE: UPDATED: Same-sex marriages begin across Virginia
ARTICLE: Baby's death under investigation in Leesburg
ARTICLE: Transforming Georgetown South
ARTICLE: Foust, Comstock each promise to protect federal workforce
ARTICLE: Reward increased for anti-Hindu graffiti cases
























            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Headlines,
        Crime police,
        Fairfax,
        Fairfax
        
        on 
        
            Thursday, September 18, 2014 4:30 pm. 
            
                Updated: 7:50 pm.

         | Tags: 
                    

Headlines




















Rules of Conduct


1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.


4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.





Welcome to the discussion.





Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






        
            Or, use your
         linked account:
        







                    facebook
                    









                    google
                    









                    yahoo
                    











                    aol
                    







            Need an account? Create one now.
        




























Print comments


 




























                
                    e-Mail List
                
            




Breaking News
Get the latest breaking news, traffic and weather updates as they happen. Sign up today!


InsideNoVa Top Stories
Get the day's top headlines from around Northern Virginia in your inbox. Sign up today!


InsideNoVa deals & contests
Get the latest deals and contests from around Northern Virginia in your inbox. Sign up today!


Prep Football
A Saturday roundup of high school football action from around Northern Virginia. Sign up now!


Manage Your Lists










                
                  Featured Gallery
                
                      









14 photos






					Mugshots 9/29-10/3











        Follow us on Facebook
        






tab 0
tab 1














Popular
Commented
Facebook Activity





Stories


Texas Ebola patient flew out of Dulles Airport
UPDATED: Body found in Clifton park is that of missing teen Cara Golias
Police search for attempted armed robber in Manassas area
As ‘violent as they tend to come’

More



Photos







More



Videos







More








All


Police: Goddard School teacher bit toddler, owner failed to report it (41)
Report: More than 2,000 immigrant children assigned to Northern Virginia (36)
Charles Severance indicted for capital murder in Alexandria homicides (33)
UPDATED: Police release wanted poster in Hannah Graham’s disappearance (29)
Prince William supervisors fire director, strip power from county social services (24)

More












tab 0
tab 1
tab 2



































 Dulles, VA 
Current Conditions






Overcast
64°


        Humidity: 54% 
        Winds: S at 9mph 
        Feels Like: 64° 



 Your Extended Forecast 


Today




                High 71°/Low 56° 
                Showers possible
            


Tomorrow




                High 73°/Low 56° 
                Cloudy
            


Wednesday




                High 73°/Low 45° 
                Sunshine
            


Thursday




                High 70°/Low 55° 
                Sunny
            

7 Day Forecast

























Sections



Home


News


Sports


Weather


Lifestyles


Obituaries


Multimedia


Things To Do


Online Features





Services



About Us


Contact Us


Media Kit


Subscription Services


Site Forms


Site Index


Add Search Toolbar





Contact us
insidenova.com
Northern Virginia Media Services
Phone number: 703-771-8800
E-mail: info@princewilliamtoday.com
Address: P.O. Box 591
		Leesburg, VA 20178


Search








Search in:






All


News


Sports




Lifestyles


Obituaries


Things To Do




Photos


Video









© Copyright 2014, INSIDENOVA.COM, Leesburg, VA. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. [Terms of Use | Privacy Policy]


 






Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






        
            Or, use your
         linked account:
        







                    facebook
                    









                    google
                    









                    yahoo
                    











                    aol
                    







            Need an account? Create one now.
        

















