Missing Virginia Student Hannah Graham's Parents Speak Out - NBC News 
Missing Virginia Student Hannah Graham's Parents Speak Out - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
'Meatless Mondays' Now a Part of School Lunch Menus
Visually Impaired Learn How To Shoot
4-Year-Old Brings 200 Bags of Heroin to Daycare: Police 
Could Selling Off Prized South African Rhinos Save Them?







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search















        BREAKING: Watch Hong Kong Pro-Democracy Protests Live







Charlottesville Police Department via WVIR

                            15 days
                            



News
  
Charlottesville police released this picture of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. 
 


Missing Virginia Student Hannah Graham's Parents Speak Out





































The father of a University of Virginia student who has been missing for more than a week spoke publicly for the first time Sunday, appealing to anyone with information to come forward in hopes that the family's “nightmare” of searching for the missing teen would end. “Who saw Hannah?” asked John Graham, at a press conference, with his wife, Sue, standing next to him. “Somebody knows what happened to Hannah.”Graham thanked the more than 1,000 volunteers who combed Charlottesville, where Graham was last seen, from morning to night on Saturday and Sunday. “I think that the reason that Hannah has such marvelous support is that this is every parent’s worst nightmare,” Graham said.Graham expressed hope that his daughter would be found alive, and he said friends who have been sending him messages of support are also hopeful for a positive outcome. "'Hannah is brilliant, resilient, determined and loves life more than anybody else I know,'" Graham said Hannah’s former teacher wrote to him in an email. “If anybody could get through this, it is Hannah,” she wrote.Graham went missing in the early morning hours of Sept. 13 after leaving an off-campus party. Earlier in the week, Charlottesville police described a person who they believe was with Hannah before she disappeared, and on Sunday identified him as Jesse Matthew. Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said Matthew arrived at the police department on Saturday, met with a lawyer and then left. He was later caught driving dangerously, and a warrant is out for his arrest for reckless driving, Longo said. “I hope and pray that we might have an opportunity to talk to Jesse Matthew again,” Longo said. “We want to talk to him about his interaction with a sweet young girl that we can’t find.”A two-day search for Graham that drew hundreds from the community — and some from across the country — covered 85 percent of the city, said search coordinator Mark Eggeman. The search “generated more leads,” and would become increasingly “targeted” in coming days, Eggeman said.IN-DEPTHHannah Graham Case Stirs 'Debilitating' Emotions in Virginia CommunityHannah Graham Case: More Than 1,000 to Search for Missing U.Va. StudentHannah Graham Search: Student Possibly Got in Car With Person of InterestSOCIAL— Elisha Fieldstadt
First published September 21 2014, 10:31 AM



 

 

 

 











About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

