Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham 
Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham

























October 6, 2014



Community Counts
HealthLink
Apps







Search





 




















 



Home 
News  

News

News Headlines
Need to Know
Breaking News Alerts
News Video
Live Stream
Education
Meet the News Team
News Tip
Polls
Politics
State/Regional
Affordable Care Act


Weather  

Weather

Closings & Delays
Interactive Radar
Skyline Network
Severe Weather Alerts
Weather Authority Facebook
CBS19Weather Twitter
Meet the Weather Team
3-Degree Guarantee


Sports  

Sports

Sports Headlines
Friday Night EndZone
UVa Athletics
ACC
High School SportsZone
Meet the Sports Team
Student Athlete of the Week
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em


Features  

Features

Barefoot Excursions
Blue Ridge Outdoors
Dental Minute
Edible Blue Ridge
Inside Charlottesville
Jay James on Faith
Pet Project
Political Tuesday
Real Estate III TV
Stephanie's Heroes
Street Safe Teens
UVa Today
What's Going Around
Wine Wednesdays


HealthLINK 
Skyline Network  

Skyline Network

All Cameras
CHO Airport
Fork Union
Martha Jefferson
Old Trail Village
Westminster


Pump Patrol 
Life  

Life

Entertainment
Lottery
MomsEveryday
MyCapture
Pouring in Virginia
TXTL8R


Community  

Community

Community Calendar
VNB Community Counts
Martha Jefferson HealthWise
TXT L8R


Contests  

Contests

Auto Racing Challenge
Dralion Text 2 Win Contest
Fan of the Day
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em
TXT L8R Sweepstakes
Wildlife Photo Contest
3 Degree Guarantee


Station  

Station

Contact Us
Email Directory
Meet the Team
Creative Services
Advertise with Us
Closed Captioning
Program Guide
CBS Shows
Public File
Video Request Form
Waiver Information
Your Feedback


Connect  

Connect

Android App
iPhone / iPad Apps
E-News
Newsplex Facebook
Newsplex Twitter
Newsplex Text Alerts
Newsplex YouTube
RSS Feeds


Jobs  

Jobs

Newsplex Jobs
VA Job Connections
Job of the Day







 

















Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham



																						By: Loren Thomas  - Email 

Updated: Mon 10:33 AM, Oct 06, 2014





																												By: Loren Thomas  - Email 












×
Loren Thomas








Reporter
Biography:
Connect With Me:
loren.thomas@newsplex.com 









Close






Home
 / Headlines List
 / Article 














































October 5, 2014
It has been three weeks and still no sign of Hannah Elizabeth Graham. However, police say the tips keep coming in and they are going to push on through until they bring her back home.
One hundred and ten officers were sent out for another day of searching, looking for clues that can lead them to 18-year-old Hannah Graham.
“I've said many times before we made a commitment and that's to find Hannah Graham, and we will do that,” says Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo. “We'll work tirelessly until such time as we do.”
It has been three weeks since Hannah was last seen walking along the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville, and since then police have combed through nearly every inch of Albemarle County with hopes that they can reunite her with her family.
In fact, on Saturday Hannah’s parents asked anyone with information on their daughter's whereabouts to speak up.
“We appeal to you to come forward and tell us where Hannah can be found,” says Sue Graham. 
Throughout this weekend crews have put in over 2,400 hours of searching.
On Sunday morning officers from Hanover, Spotsylvania, Fairfax, Stafford and Albemarle counties were gearing up for the search, along with over 60 state police officers with the search and recovery team.
“We’re looking for the bread crumbs; we're looking for the pieces of the puzzle,” says Mike Berry of the Virginia State Police. “So you are looking for the cell phone, the shoes, anything that will point us in Hannah's direction.” 
They have been covering an eight square mile ring around Charlottesville where Hannah was last seen and continue to ask people living in Albemarle Co. to search their properties for any sign of the missing UVa. 2nd-year student.
“A lot of citizens have asked what they can do for the Graham's, what can they do for the men and women who are out there searching for Hannah and there's one thing you can do, it's the most powerful thing that you can do, and that's pray that this comes to a conclusion,” says Chief Longo.
If you have any information about Hannah’s whereabouts, please call the tip line at 434-295-3851.











Mother of Murdered UVa Student Speaks to Students About Relationship Violence 












The comments sections of Newsplex.com are designed for thoughtful, intelligent conversation and debate. We want to hear from our viewers, but we ask that you follow our rules for commenting. E-mail is required to comment on a story, but it will not be displayed with your comment. For complete rules, CLICK HERE. The Newsplex reserves the right to not post or to remove any comment.



Please enable JavaScript to view the powered by Disqus.
powered by Disqus



















































		Most Read Stories			



A Desperate Search for Answers in Hannah Graham Case
Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham
Local Entrepreneur Turns Passion into Profit
UPDATED: Supreme Court Rejects Appeals in Gay Marriage Cases
Historic Estate In Virginia To Be Sold At Auction
Mother of Murdered UVa Student Speaks to Students About Relationship Violence
Why Are People Leaving the Workforce?
Teachers Feeling Stress













Tweets from @CBS19/newsplex-accounts




Today's Events
Today's community events.
Monday October 6



Fall Revival
Sleepout for the Homeless
Colonnade Club Cornerstone Celebration
UVA Hosted: Baby Basics Moms Club

Click Here to Submit and View Events









































The Charlottesville Newsplex
999 2nd Street S.E.
Charlottesville, VA 22902
434.242.1919 – Main
434.220.7522 - Newsroom

 - Copyright © 2002-2014 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability   278183871 - newsplex.com/a?a=278183871 					





Website Policy
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy/YOUR CALIFORNIA PRIVACY RIGHTS
Advertising
EEO Statement
Public Inspection File






×
Online Public Information File


Click Here to access the online Public Inspection File
Viewers with disabilities can get assistance accessing this station's FCC Public Inspection File by contacting the station with the information listed below. Questions or concerns relating to the accessibility of the FCC's online public file system should be directed to the FCC at 888-225-5322, 888-835-5322 (TTY), or fccinfo@fcc.gov.

Public File Liaison:
Emily Hall - 434-242-1919 Ext. 137

Station Contact Info:
The Charlottesville Newsplex999 2nd Street S.E.Charlottesville, VA 22902434.242.1919 – Main434.220.7522 - Newsroom


Close























