Search continues for Hannah Graham despite suspect’s arrest - NY Daily News 

Search continues for Hannah Graham despite suspect’s arrest - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Search continues for Hannah Graham despite suspect’s arrest It’s been nearly two weeks since 18-year-old Hannah Graham disappeared after a night of partying in Charlottesville. She was last seen with Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., who was arrested in Texas on charges related to her disappearance.  BY   Nicole Hensley     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Saturday, September 27, 2014, 6:32 PM  A A A        Share this URL                Facebook Searchers continue to look for the missing University of Virginia student, Hannah Graham, who was last seen Sept. 14.    
	The chances of finding Hannah Graham dwindle each day even though a suspect has been arrested on abduction charges related to her disappearance.

	Search and rescue crews in Virginia have expanded their search to the hills surrounding Charlottesville where Graham disappeared nearly two weeks ago after being last seen with Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr.

	“We have maintained a presence on the scene searching every day since this happened. We have not stopped searching,” Mark Eggeman of the Virginia Department of Emergency Management said.

	The Charlottesville Police Department is asking just about everyone, including homeowners and real estate agents, to thoroughly check their properties as well as vacant buildings for any sign of the 18-year-old University of Virginia sophomore.
   AP The suspect’s father doesn’t believe his son is capable of killing or hurting anyone and would have likely given the girl a ride home.   

	“You’re looking for signs of passage, you’re looking for the subtle things that most people who are not trained to do this will walk right past,” Eggeman said.

	The lone suspect in Graham’s disappearance is Matthew, who was apprehended on a beach near Galveston, Texas, a remote beach town described by authorities as “the end of the road” on the Bolivar Peninsula. He was extradited back to Albemarle County on the charge of abduction with intent to defile or sexually molest.
   AP Jesse Matthew Jr. was arrested in Texas and extradited back to Virginia on Friday to face charges of abduction with intent to defile.   

	Despite such a violent allegation, the suspect’s father insists his son is not capable of killing or hurting someone.

	“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” the suspect’s father, Jesse Matthew Sr., told WTVR-TV. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.”

	The 32-year-old has not given investigators any hint to Graham’s location or condition so at this point, it’s up to volunteers and search crews with dogs to cover in and around Charlottesville based on more than 1,600 tips.

	“Every day there’s new information, there’s a new lead,” Eggeman added. “It’s like building blocks, it’s one thing leads to another.”

	Her peers at the University of Virginia are staying hopeful Graham comes home safely by passing out orange - her favorite color - ribbons to tailgaters at a Saturday football game, according to WCAU-TV.

With News Wire Services.

nhensley@nydailynews.com
   Related Stories  Man accused of abducting UVA student appears in Texas court       Texas woman recalls moment she locked eyes with UVA suspect       UVA abduction suspect complains about jail bed           


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In             
Crime Video


    Editor's Picks      Madden: Orioles-Royals  matchup makes for intriguing ALCS       When the dust had all settled and the champagne had all been sprayed Sunday, you could score one for the small markets and what looks to be a most intriguing American League Championship Series of contrasts between Buck Showalter’s bludgeoning Baltimore Orioles and the Cinderella Royal whippets from Kansas City.       Teresa Giudice says she was 'not expecting' jail time in Bravo special      "I didn't understand that part," the "Real Housewives Of New Jersey" star told "Watch What Happens Live" host Andy Cohen on a Bravo special where Teresa and her husband Joe discussed the prison terms to which they were sentenced last Thursday.       Yankees' Mark Teixeira has an eye on 150 games      Mark Teixeira spoke Monday about exchanging text messages with Alex Rodriguez, but a different kind of message — one delivered by Hal Steinbrenner last Wednesday — is the one that seems to be making an impact on the Yankees' first baseman.       Obama vows tough screenings to stop spread of Ebola      The U.S. will beef up airline passenger screening at home and abroad under a new plan to curb the spread of Ebola, President Obama said Monday.       Lupica: Jets not a pretty picture with dazed and confused QB      This is what it looks like when a player’s coach like Rex Ryan doesn’t have enough players. And when the player — Geno Smith — he needs the most to save his job can’t show up for a team meeting because he was confused about a time change.       Isola: NBA owners crying poverty need to be whistled after new TV mega-deal      Upon further review, Carmelo Anthony gave the Knicks a much bigger hometown discount than originally reported. His $124 million, five-year contract could look like chump change compared to the deals LeBron James and Kevin Durant are expected to sign in two years once the NBA’s new television deal kicks in.

       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       Carmelo Anthony ‘never thought about’ two-year deal with Knicks to cash in on NBA TV contract      Carmelo Anthony says he "never thought about" accepting a two-year contract like LeBron James did this summer, even if it meant missing out on the windfall from the landmark $24 billion TV deal the NBA has agreed to with ESPN and TNT.       Geno Smith was at the movies during Jets team meeting in San Diego: ‘I got the time mixed up’       Talk about a disaster flick. A day after the worst loss of the Rex Ryan era, second-year quarterback Geno Smith wasn’t talking about his brutal performance against the Chargers or this week’s matchup with Peyton Manning, rather he was trying to explain how the time difference between the East Coast and West Coast landed him in a movie theater instead of a Jets’ team film session.       Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       No charges in botched Ga. drug raid that injured baby      A Georgia grand jury has opted not to charge any police who took part in a drug raid that disfigured a toddler.       As NBA touts new TV deal, Deron Williams says players should prepare for another lockout      The numbers of the new television deal are astronomical, a sign that the NBA has never been as popular or profitable. But that won't prevent another work stoppage when the sides have an opportunity to opt out of the CBA before the 2017-18 season.       Video captures 49ers fans’ violent bathroom brawl 'over open stall'      A pair of violent thugs clad in red jerseys was filmed attacking fellow fans ahead of kickoff at San Francisco's Levi's Stadium Sunday in a vicious beat down that ended with one man in serious condition.       Massive affordable housing buildings slated for central Bronx      The center of the Bronx is about to become affordable housing central.       Woodhaven civic group takes aim at Sanitation Department infractions      A Woodhaven civic group says the Sanitation Department is needlessly ticketing the wrong business: its own storefront, which they say has been flagged at least three times this year for illegal dumping.       Detective details catching NYPD lieutenant warning cops of investigation      The lead detective in a massive ticket-fixing probe of the NYPD took the stand Monday to detail how he smoked out a Bronx lieutenant accused of leaking information to warn other cops. Detective Randy Katakofsky testified that he deliberately let information drop to Lt. Jennara Cobb suggesting he had wire taps on the cell phones of several high-ranking delegates and trustees from various cop unions.       Mighty Quinn: October 7      Editor’s note: Mighty One raced in the 10th race at Belmont on Saturday. Anyone make money?       Two boys die in Queens house fire      Two young boys, ages 6 and 11, died in a house fire in Queens that also left an adult in serious condition on Monday night, authorities said.       Sanford Rubenstein's mattress hauled off as evidence in alleged rape      Sanford Rubenstein’s mattress is now evidence. It was hauled off by police in an unmarked white van from the high-powered attorney’s swanky apartment Monday after lawyers for the woman who accused Rubenstein of rape declared they had the goods on him.       Ariel Russo's family will stand by lawyer Sanford Rubenstein      Allen and Sofia Russo said they were shocked to learn that a woman has accused their attorney of sexually assaulting her in his penthouse apartment following the Rev. Al Sharpton’s birthday party last week — and they don’t believe it’s true.       

         COLD CASES  & TRUE CRIME        Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray A PECULIAR ITEM recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers.        Rooney's wife slain by lover Carolyn Mitchell  was one of those girls who seemed destined to make headlines. And did she ever.
        Justice Story: John du Pont The 1856 British Guiana one-cent magenta is a tiny octagonal red inch-wide stamp. Philatelic experts say that when it is auctioned at Sotheby’s in New York on June 17, this singular postal artifact is expected to fetch something around $20 million, the largest price ever paid for a stamp. By weight and size, it may be the most valuable object in the world. The stamp is just one souvenir of the strange legacy of John E. du Pont, a man who had everything money could buy but threw it away in one moment of blind violence.        Justice Story: Vampire king At more than 300 pounds and with dreadlocks cascading past his waist, Marcus Wesson, 57, was not what people generally think of when they hear the word “vampire.”        Justice Story: Deadly mother-in-law A Chicago undertaker summoned to a physician’s office took one look at a corpse on an exam table and diagnosed what should have been clear to the doctor.      Previous Next          Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Chef kills, dismembers and boils girlfriend: cops     2   3-month-old dies in hot car in Phoenix: cops     3   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     4   Sister of alleged Pa. cop-killer calls on him to give up     5   Seattle woman attacked by bridesmaids over hot dog: cops     6   Georgia teenager killed after high school football game     7   Man kills friend for 'poking' girlfriend on Facebook         8   Man who beheaded Timothy McLean in 2008 may go free one day     9   Mass. woman stashed drugs under butt enhancer: police     10   Wash. shop owner killed chasing down shoplifters          1   Chef kills, dismembers and boils girlfriend: cops     2   Man who beheaded Timothy McLean in 2008 may go free one day     3   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     4   Georgia teenager killed after high school football game     5   Mass. woman stashed drugs under butt enhancer: police     6   3-month-old dies in hot car in Phoenix: cops     7   British man in South African honeymoon murder pleads not guilty     8   Boston bombing suspect's friend too high to remember aftermath: attorney     9   Sister of alleged Pa. cop-killer calls on him to give up     10   DMV chief's son caught drunk driving: cops                 


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      