Missing-student suspect Jesse Matthew doesn't appear in court; police hold evidence | WJLA.com 
Missing-student suspect Jesse Matthew doesn't appear in court; police hold evidence | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Missing-student suspect Jesse Matthew doesn't appear in court; police hold evidence

By The Associated Press

			October 2, 2014 - 05:09 am Updated: October 2, 2014 - 01:16 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP/WJLA) - The man charged with abducting a missing University of Virginia student didn't appear in court Thursday morning for a bond hearing on reckless driving charges as expected.
Continue reading


More on this story


Matthew twice accused of college sex assaults

Drone used in Hannah Graham search; cops check for cold case ties



Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. was scheduled for a 9 a.m. hearing in Albemarle County General District Court, but a judge read his name and then quickly moved to the next case without any explanation of where Matthew was or why he didn't appear by video feed.
The 32-year-old Matthew also is charged with abduction with intent to defile 18-year-old Hannah Graham. His bond hearing on that felony count has been set for Dec. 4 in Charlottesville.
Authorities say he was charged with reckless driving after speeding away from a police station Sept. 20. He was apprehended last week in Texas.
Police have revealed next to nothing about the evidence they have against Matthew and they won't have to for months to come.
	
But his name is already familiar in Virginia, and linked by authorities to multiple crimes involving young women.
		
Charlottesville police identified Matthew as a suspect even before his arrest last week in Texas on a warrant alleging he abducted Graham with the intent to attack her sexually. That strategy can potentially vilify an innocent person, some defense lawyers say. But a missing persons advocate said the judgment call was more than justified by the need to find her alive.
	
Graham has been missing since Sept. 13; a week later, Police Chief Timothy Longo described Matthew in detail without naming him, saying investigators wanted to talk to the "person of interest" and had searched his apartment because he was the last person to see her.
	
Matthew then showed up at police headquarters, asked for a lawyer, and then allegedly sped away, according to a police account. His exit prompted a warrant for "reckless driving," a charge that Longo cited as he named the suspect and appealed for information from anyone who saw him with Graham the night she disappeared.
	
"I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth because it's been a week and we can't find her," Longo said, adding that he also believed she had been in the suspect's car.
	
While Matthew was a fugitive in Texas, Virginia police added a charge of abduction with intent to defile, a violent felony that under Virginia law compels suspects to submit to DNA testing.
	
Very quickly thereafter, Virginia State Police announced a "forensic link" to another infamous case at the university - the 2009 killing of Morgan Harrington, whose body was found in a hayfield three months after she vanished. That case, in turn, has been linked by DNA evidence since 2012 to the rape of a woman in Fairfax, Virginia, who survived after a passerby startled her attacker, the FBI has said.
	
Late Wednesday, Christopher Newport University released a statement noting that Matthew was named in a police file involving a Sept. 7, 2003 sexual assault on the Newport News campus. Matthew was a student there from January 2003 through Oct. 15, 2003.
	
He was a member of CNU's football team from Aug. 14 to Sept. 12, 2003, where he was a 250-pound defensive lineman, according to the team's media guide. At the time, he didn't have facial hair or dreadlocks that recent pictures of him show. He left the school after the police file was opened, but was never charged with a crime.
	
"Students don't usually leave in the second month of the semester or leave the football team within a month," said the statement, emailed to the news media by CNU spokeswoman Lori Jacobs. "However, federal student record privacy laws (FERPA) limit the information we can provide. The University is fully cooperating with law-enforcement agencies."
	
Matthew had transferred to CNU after three years at Liberty University, where he also was on the football team.
	
When he was at Liberty University, he was accused of raping a student on campus. That charge was dropped when the person declined to move forward with prosecution, Lynchburg Commonwealth's Attorney Michael Doucette said last week.
	
Police are not always eager to have a suspect's name in front of the public. In northern Virginia, Alexandria police only reluctantly acknowledged their interest in Charles Severance as a "person of interest" this summer in three separate killings there over the past decade. Severance was eventually charged with all three murders, but before that Alexandria Police Chief Earl Cook said he did not want the public to develop tunnel vision and assume the investigation was over.
	
Experts say there's a key difference in Charlottesville - police hope to find Hannah Graham alive.
	
"It's always a judgment call," said Bob Lowery, executive director of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children's missing children division.
	
But he said Charlottesville police have done an excellent job of keeping the public engaged in the search, and that if sharing suspects' names can help find a missing person, that tips the scales in favor of identifying them.
	
"Even though the circumstances are dire, you have to hold out hope that Hannah is alive," Lowery said.
	
Steven Benjamin, a Richmond defense attorney and past president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, agreed that police acted appropriately in publicizing Matthew's name as they sought tips from the public in their search for Graham.
	
And he said publicity can sometimes be as useful for defense lawyers as it is for police, because defense attorneys need information about the case as much as anyone.
	
Still, as a defense attorney, "one of the risks of publicly identifying a suspect is the risk of potentially vilifying an innocent person," he said.
	
Steve Shannon, a former state lawmaker and prosecutor and now a criminal law professor at George Mason University, said early exposure of Matthew's name won't affect the legal process, since a judge will decide based on the law whether there's probable cause to prosecute.
	
Passions will have cooled when the jury comes into the process months later, and court procedures to remove jurors who might be influenced by pretrial publicity are long-established and effective, he said.
	
"Cases rise or fall in a court of law, not in the court of public opinion," Shannon said. 



Read More:
Virginia, 
Jesse Matthew, 
Charlottesville, 
Bond Hearing, 
Hannah Graham, 
NewsChannel 8, 
University Of Virginia, 
Kidnapping, 
Abduction








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Bowie murder suspect captured following manhunt



Missing Lyon sisters case: New details expected to be announced at 3 p.m.



Hannah Graham abduction suspect Jesse Matthew twice accused of college sex assaults












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Joe Madden, D.C. bartender, missing since Monday









What is Ebola? How does it spread? Who is at risk?
















Washington Nationals to give away free NLDS tickets with Jayson Werth gnome scavenger hunt









Missing Lyon sisters case: New details expected to be announced at 3 p.m.









Police: Man killed his boss' wife at Potomac home, then self in car over workplace theft accusation









Police arrest Bowie murder suspect with tattoo-laden face









Missing-student suspect Jesse Matthew doesn't appear in court; police hold evidence





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

