Hannah Graham kidnap suspect Jesse Matthew being held without bond in Texas | WJLA.com 
Hannah Graham kidnap suspect Jesse Matthew being held without bond in Texas | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Hannah Graham kidnap suspect Jesse Matthew being held without bond in Texas

By The Associated Press, Diane Cho, Suzanne Kennedy, ABC News, Tom Roussey

			September 25, 2014 - 09:11 am Updated: September 25, 2014 - 08:28 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



GALVESTON, Texas (AP/ABC News) - A man charged with abducting a missing University of Virginia sophomore has been captured in Texas and is awaiting extradition - but there is still no sign of the student, authorities said.
Continue reading


Police press conference debrief
















Chief: 'no idea' where Graham is
















Legal expert on Graham case



















Jesse Matthew's Galveston County Sheriff's Office mugshot. (Photo: ABC News)



More on this story


Daily Mail Online report: Matthew expelled at Liberty Univ. after rape allegation

Arrested while camping out on a beach

Complete coverage: Hannah Graham search



On Thursday, Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., 32, appeared briefly before a Galveston County judge via a video link from jail to hear the charges against him. In Texas, he's charged with being a fugitive from justice and with giving false information to an officer, in addition to a count of abduction with intent to defile in Virginia. Magistrate Mark Henry set bond at $1,500 on the false information charge but held Matthew without bond on the fugitive count.
The magistrate asked Matthew - in a dark green jumpsuit, with his hands cuffed - to sign several papers indicating whether he was requesting a court-appointed lawyer and whether he was claiming he was not the person identified on the Virginia fugitive warrant.
"What does this mean?" Matthew, who is 6-foot-2 and weighs 270 pounds, asked at one point while looking at the paperwork.
As the magistrate explained what he was being asked to sign, Matthew interrupted him saying, "What? I'm sorry."
When the magistrate finished his explanation, Matthew asked, "And if I sign it?"
Matthew also expressed concern that his clothes were taken from him when he was booked into the Galveston County jail. "I should be able to have some kind of clothing," he said.
Henry told him that his jumpsuit was sufficient clothing and that his personal items would be returned later.
After the appearance, Henry told reporters that he expected Matthew would be extradited to Virginia within a day or two. Officials have not released any further details about the extradition.
Matthew was arrested Wednesday afternoon on a beach in the sparsely populated community of Gilchrist by Galveston County Sheriff's deputies. The capture came less than a full day after Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo announced that authorities had probable cause to arrest Matthew on charges of abduction with intent to defile Hannah Graham, an 18-year-old sophomore who went missing on Sept. 13 in Charlottesville.
The Sheriff's Office received a call reporting a suspicious person and a responding deputy found a man who had pitched a tent on the beach with his car parked nearby. Galveston County Sheriff Henry Trochesset said that a check of the car's plates revealed it was the vehicle sought in connection to the case. Authorities were trying to get a warrant to search the car, he added.
According to sheriff’s jail records, Matthew initially lied to deputies about being wanted, which led to the Texas charge of giving false information.
Matthew had also been in Galveston for at least a day. He can be seen on surveillance video at a Galveston store buying mosquito repellent a day before his capture.
"He asked me the question if it's safe to stay on the beach, so I told him yeah, it's good there," store owner Dave Paresh told ABC News.
Meantime, in Charlottesville, police say an intense search for Graham continues.
"This case is nowhere near over," Longo told a news conference late Wednesday. "We have a person in custody, but there's a long road ahead of us and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham."
The search is focusing on rural and wooded areas around Charlottesville, Longo said in an interview Thursday.
According to authorities, Graham met friends at a restaurant for dinner Sept. 12 before stopping by two parties at off-campus housing units. Officials said she left the second party alone and sent a text message to a friend saying she was lost.
Surveillance videos showed her walking, and at some points running, past a pub and a service station and then onto the Downtown Mall, a seven-block pedestrian strip where police believe she entered a bar with Matthew. The video that has been publicly released does not show the two entering the bar together.
The university said Matthew had been employed at the University of Virginia Medical Center since Aug. 12, 2012, as a patient technician in the operating room.
The charges against Matthew surprised Dave Hansen, who first met him about 11 years ago when Hansen served as an assistant pastor at an area church.
"I always thought he was a gentle giant, just a nice guy," Hansen said. "He seemed genuine with his faith and spirituality. ... I don't see him doing this at all, but that's usually the case, I guess."
Hansen said he's only kept up with Matthew through Facebook but ran into him at the university's medical center within the last year. He said the soft-spoken Matthew greeted him in an elevator with a high-five.
Matthew attended Liberty University from 2000 to 2002, said officials with the Lynchburg school founded by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell. The school's athletics website listed him as a defensive lineman on the football team.
More recently, he also served as a part-time volunteer for the football team at The Covenant School, a private Christian pre-kindergarten through 12th-grade school in Charlottesville. Officials said his involvement with the school began last month following interviews with the athletic director and head football coach, as well as normal background and reference checks.
After Matthew was named a person of interest in Graham's disappearance, school officials said in a letter that he would "no longer be working with our football program while this matter is being clarified and resolved."
While Matthew has had past brushes with the law, the details of those cases are not clear.
Online court records show Matthew was convicted of trespassing in 2010 but provide no details about the incident. Details also were unavailable for two other charges of assault and attempted grand larceny relating to a 2009 incident that were not prosecuted. Matthew, who had a taxi permit from the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles from 2007 through 2010, also has several traffic infractions, records show.


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
Virginia, 
Virginia, 
Texas, 
Charlottesville, 
Galveston, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Crime, 
Virginia Crime, 
Missing Person








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Charlottesville bar owner: Graham seemed incapacitated when she walked away with Matthew



Arrest site for Heather Graham abduction suspect was at road's end on remote Texas peninsula



Police still have 'no idea' where missing U.Va. student is, despite kidnap arrest












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper
















Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Philadelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny









As search continues, father believes Hoggle kids are still alive









Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

