Jesse Matthew arrested in Texas in alleged kidnap of still-missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham | WJLA.com 
Jesse Matthew arrested in Texas in alleged kidnap of still-missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Jesse Matthew arrested in Texas in alleged kidnap of still-missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham

By Diane Cho, Jeff Goldberg, Jay Korff, ABC 7 News, Associated Press, Tom Roussey

			September 24, 2014 - 07:09 pm Updated: September 25, 2014 - 08:57 am
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (WJLA/AP/ABC News) -  The man charged with kidnapping in the disappearance of a University of Virginia student has been captured, Charlottesville police said Wednesday night.
Continue reading


Matthew arrested in Texas



















Jesse Matthew in custody in Texas, left, Matthew and Hannah Graham headshots, right. (Photos: KTRK/ABC)



More on this story


Complete coverage: Hannah Graham search



"Jesse Matthew is in custody in Galveston, Texas," Police Chief Timothy Longo proclaimed to reporters, adding that the "extradition process is currently underway."
The 32-year-old Matthew is the central figure in a case that has roiled the college town of Charlottesville. Police have charged him with abduction with intent to defile Hannah Graham, an 18-year-old sophomore who went missing Sept. 13.
The Galveston County Sheriff’s Office confirmed one of their deputies located Matthew on a beach in the community of Gilcrest around 3:30 p.m. Central time Wednesday, but they declined to discuss the circumstances surrounding his capture. Charlottesville investigators were expected to travel to Galveston on Thursday.
Longo also did not take any questions about the arrest at his news conference, but indicated that the reward to find the still-missing Graham was now up to $100,000 (from $50,000) out of the "generosity" of donors who wished to remain private.
"This case is nowhere near over. We have a person in custody but we have a long road ahead of us and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham," the chief said. "We're asking everyone within the sound of my voice to help find Hannah Graham."
Police believe Matthew was the "last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth," and obtained a felony warrant for his arrest late Tuesday. It's not clear whether the longtime area resident knew Graham, who was last spotted in an area lined with shops and restaurants where police believe she went into a bar with him.
Police had been looking for Matthew since Sept. 20, when he sped away from officers who had him under surveillance after he left the Charlottesville police station. He had gone there with his mother and uncle to ask for a lawyer after police searched his car and apartment and said they wanted to question him about Graham's disappearance.
Former Ablemarle County prosecutor Jim Camblos revealed earlier Wednesday that he was hired to represent Matthew on Saturday but would not give any further details about the case or the whereabouts of his client at that time.
The case has spread fear through the quiet community about 70 miles west of Richmond. Authorities have increased patrols and a late-night transportation program for students, who also have begun walking in pairs at night and are paying closer attention to their surroundings.
While police continued searching for Graham and struggled to make sense of what led to her disappearance, a vigil was held Wednesday evening at her alma mater, West Potomac High School in Alexandria. Graham was an alpine skier and alto saxophone player who had earned straight A's six years in a row, according to family members and police.
According to police, Graham met friends at a restaurant for dinner on Sept. 12 before stopping by two parties at off-campus housing units. She left the second party alone, police have said, and sent a text message to a friend saying she was lost.
Surveillance videos showed her walking, and at some points running, past a pub and a service station and then onto the Downtown Mall, a seven-block pedestrian strip where police believe she entered a bar with Matthew.
By all appearances, Matthew has led a fairly ordinary life: He worked at a hospital, helped coach youth football for a time and attended a Christian university.
Officials said he'd been employed at the University of Virginia Medical Center since Aug. 12, 2012, as a patient technician in the operating room.
The charges against the 6-foot-2, 270-pound Matthew surprised Dave Hansen, who first met him about 11 years ago when Hansen served as an assistant pastor at an area church.
"I always thought he was a gentle giant, just a nice guy," Hansen said. "He seemed genuine with his faith and spirituality. ... I don't see him doing this at all, but that's usually the case, I guess."
Hansen said he's only kept up with Matthew through Facebook, but ran into him at the university's medical center within the last year. He said the soft-spoken Matthew greeted him in an elevator with a high-five.
Matthew attended Liberty University from 2000 to 2002, officials with the Lynchburg school founded by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell said, and its athletics website listed him as a defensive lineman on the football team.
More recently he also served as a part-time volunteer for the football team at The Covenant School, a private Christian pre-kindergarten through 12th-grade school in Charlottesville. Officials said his involvement with the school began last month following interviews with the athletic director and head football coach, as well as normal background and reference checks.
After Matthew was named a person of interest in Graham's disappearance, school officials said in a letter that he would "no longer be working with our football program while this matter is being clarified and resolved."
While Matthew has had past brushes with the law, the details of those cases were not clear.
Online court records show Matthew was convicted of trespassing in 2010 but provide no details about the incident. Details also were unavailable for two other charges of assault and attempted grand larceny relating to a 2009 incident that were not prosecuted. Matthew, who had a taxi permit from the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles from 2007 through 2010, also has several traffic infractions, records show.
Late Tuesday, police, who had searched Matthew's car once and his apartment twice, decided they had probable cause to charge him in the disappearance. Longo has declined to say what new information police had, but authorities sent several items, including clothing, to a state forensics lab for testing.


Read More:
Virginia, 
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
NewsChannel 8, 
University Of Virginia, 
Missing Student, 
Texas, 
Missing Woman, 
Arrest, 
Kidnap, 
Kidnapping, 
Abduction, 
Disappearance, 
Charlottesville








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Gregory Evans, of D.C., sentenced to more than 9 years in jail for armed robberies in Maryland



More than 160 D.C. police officers will wear body cameras



Prince George's police shut down 'open-air drug market' nicknamed 'The Yard'












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper
















Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Philadelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny









As search continues, father believes Hoggle kids are still alive









Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

