Jesse Matthew, suspect in missing U.Va. student case, charged with abduction of Hannah Graham | WJLA.com 
Jesse Matthew, suspect in missing U.Va. student case, charged with abduction of Hannah Graham | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Jesse Matthew, suspect in missing U.Va. student case, charged with abduction of Hannah Graham

By The Associated Press, Jeff Goldberg, ABC News

			September 23, 2014 - 07:14 pm Updated: September 24, 2014 - 10:07 am
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) - Even with a suspect charged in the disappearance of a missing University of Virginia student, police are stressing the search for the 18-year-old sophomore from northern Virginia remains in full force.
Continue reading


Matthew not in custody



















Jesse Matthew, seen is this wanted poster for reckless driving, is now also wanted for abduction. (Photo: Charlotesville PD)



More on this story


Complete coverage: The search for Hannah Graham



Authorities late Tuesday obtained a felony arrest warrant from a magistrate on a charge of abduction with intent to defile against 32-year-old Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., who police believe was the last person seen with Hannah Graham. Graham was last seen early the morning of Sept. 13.
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said at a news conference that officers were looking for Matthew, a campus employee and longtime Charlottesville resident, who was last seen Saturday when he stopped by the police station with his mother and uncle to ask for a lawyer. Police say he sped away afterward, losing officers who had him under surveillance and prompting authorities to issue two arrest warrants for reckless driving.
Longo said police, who have searched Matthew's car once and his apartment twice, decided they had probable cause to charge him in Graham's disappearance. He declined to say what new information police had, and he did not take questions. However, he walked back to the podium when a reporter asked whether police were still looking for Graham, an alpine skier and alto saxophone player, according to family members and police.
"We absolutely are continuing our search for Hannah, even as we speak, and we will continue our search for Hannah," he said.
According to police, Graham met friends at a restaurant for dinner on Sept. 12 before stopping by two parties at off-campus housing units. The sophomore from northern Virginia left the second party alone, police have said, and sent a text message to a friend saying she was lost.
Surveillance videos showed her walking, and at some points running, past a pub and a service station and then onto the Downtown Mall, a seven-block pedestrian strip lined with shops and restaurants where police believe she entered a bar with Matthew.
Matthew has been employed at the University of Virginia Medical Center since Aug. 12, 2012, as a patient technician in the operating room, university spokesman McGregor McCance said.
Online court records show Matthew was convicted of trespassing in 2010 but provide no details about the incident. Details also were unavailable for two other charges of assault and attempted grand larceny relating to a 2009 incident that were not prosecuted. Matthew also has several traffic infractions, records show.
Matthew had a taxi permit from 2007 through 2010, according to Pam Goheen with the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles.
Police Capt. Gary Pleasants said Tuesday that officers took several items of clothing during their second search of Matthew's apartment, but he would not give details or elaborate on the search.
As of Tuesday afternoon, the state lab was still analyzing evidence it received from Charlottesville police, including nearly two dozen items and eight "known samples that we would use for comparison purposes," said Jeffrey Ban, director of the Department of Forensic Science's Central Laboratory in Richmond.
Authorities on Tuesday released an updated wanted poster reflecting the new charge against Matthew. It says the 6-foot-2, 270-pound man was last reported driving his sister's 1997 light blue Nissan Sentra, and notes that he is said to have contacts in Virginia, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C.
Graham's disappearance has sent a ripple of fear through the quiet college town of Charlottesville. University president Teresa Sullivan said in a written statement Tuesday that local and campus police have increased patrols, and the university has expanded the hours of a program that provides late-night van transportation for students.
Students have said they've begun walking in pairs at night and are paying closer attention to their surroundings.


Read More:
NewsChannel 8, 
Crime, 
Virginia, 
Virginia Crime, 
Charlottesville, 
UVA, 
UVa., 
U.Va., 
University Of Virginia, 
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
Missing Teen, 
Missing Girl, 
Missing Person, 
Missing Persons








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Md. hockey coach sentenced for ice rink thievery, blames drug addiction for crime spree



Roy Lee Tolbert of D.C. pleads guilty to robbing Md. diamond store



Gilbert Payne, former Md. police officer, charged in workers' comp fraud case












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper
















Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Philadelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny









As search continues, father believes Hoggle kids are still alive









Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

