Police confident Va. search site will yield answers in 1975 Md. Lyon sisters disappearance | WJLA.com 
Police confident Va. search site will yield answers in 1975 Md. Lyon sisters disappearance | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Police confident Va. search site will yield answers in 1975 Md. Lyon sisters disappearance

By The Associated Press, Brad Bell, ABC 7 News, Roz Plater

			September 17, 2014 - 05:26 pm Updated: September 18, 2014 - 12:01 am
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



LYNCHBURG, Va. (WJLA/AP) - Investigators from two states continued searching an area near Lynchburg for the remains of two young sisters from Maryland who were abducted in 1975, and police said Wednesday they had finally "zeroed in" on a place that would lead them to what happened to the girls.
Continue reading


Police comb Bedford County, Va.



















Sheila Lyon, left, and her sister Catherine Lyon, right, were last seen leaving to walk to Wheaton Plaza Shopping Center in Montgomery County in March of 1975. (AP photos) 



More on this story


Police search property in SW Virginia

Complete coverage: Lyon sisters



Capt. Darren Francke of the Montgomery County, Md. police department, said police are looking for the remains of Catherine Lyon, 10, and Sheila Lyon, 12. They went missing on March 25, 1975, after walking for lunch to a mall in Wheaton, Md. The department has had investigators in Bedford County, Virginia, since last week.
"We have identified property on Taylor mountain that we believe will surrender evidence in the Lyon sisters case," Francke said at a news conference late Wednesday afternoon. "Investigators are confident we are getting closer to telling the Lyon family the truth of what happened to Shelia and Catherine."
In February, police said they had identified a convicted child sex offender in a Delaware prison as a person of interest in the case.
Authorities established that Lloyd Lee Welch, 57, was at the mall the day the girls vanished and was seen paying attention to them. Welch, whom police describe as a former ride operator for a carnival company and a drifter who traveled the U.S. and often stayed in homeless shelters, has convictions in multiple states for sexually assaulting young girls and has been locked up in Delaware for more than 15 years.
Francke said Welch's family has some connection to the area being searched in Bedford County and added that "investigators believe that there are more than one suspect involved."
Francke confirmed police were looking at additional Welch family members as potential suspects, saying "They know who they are." He indicated none of the additional suspects were currently in custody.


Read More:
Lyons Sisters, 
Lyon Sisters, 
Bedford County, 
Virginia, 
Maryland, 
Montgomery County Police, 
Wheaton, 
Wheaton MD, 
Missing Girls, 
Lynchburg, 
Sheila Lyon, 
Catherine Lyon, 
Crime, 
NewsChannel 8








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Concierge at Arlington apartment building allegedly broke into units and drank renters' booze



Daniel Sirotkin, Md. private tutor and wrestling coach, sentenced to prison for repeatedly molesting teenage student



Cold case: Lamont Terry pleads guilty in 1992 D.C. murder of Chet Matthews












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Silver Spring math teacher, Sarah Manchester, wins $1 million on 'Wheel Of Fortune'
















Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit









Police confident Va. search site will yield answers in 1975 Md. Lyon sisters disappearance









Ancient skeleton couple found holding hands for 700 years in England









U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned









Georgetown University undergraduate dies of apparent meningitis





















News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

