Family, co-workers search for man who has been missing for a week | fox4kc.com  
Family, co-workers search for man who has been missing for a week | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Man missing for a week found in good health

Posted 5:55 pm, July 13, 2014, by Megan Dillard, Updated at 12:28pm, July 14, 2014 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 





KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The Sugar Creek Police Department said Jose Padilla, 41, has been accounted for and is in good health. Padilla had been missing since last Sunday.
According to police, Padilla was checked out by Sugar Creek firefighters and was said to be doing well. He was taken to the University of Kansas Hospital for an evaluation. It’s unclear at this time where Padilla was during the days he was missing.
Friends said in the days preceding his disappearance, they noticed a change in his behavior, including decreased mental capacity.
Police said Padilla did not eat much in the last week and is getting important nutrients at the hospital where he is being looked after by medical staff.
Previous story:
Dozens of volunteers and people searched for Padilla, and with each minute that passed, his friends and family grew more and more worried.
“My main concern is, is he eating, is he drinking, where is he at? Just locating him. He’s never been gone this long,” said Padilla’s cousin, Randy Reyes.
Reyes said Padilla has wandered off in the past.
“He just has his bouts where he disappears,” Reyes said.
Those bouts include depression.
“You can kind of see him being okay sometimes, and not okay other times. He’d been working up until this point at his job here at Jackson County (Detention Center),” said Reyes.
Padilla last showed up for work at the detention center where he is a corrections officer on July 4. He disappeared two days later and his co-workers led the search to find him.
Volunteers split into teams, shared stacks of fliers and bottles of water before they hit the road. Reyes searched some of the industrial areas near where Padilla was last seen. Nilda Serrano says it’s a struggle for everyone at work to stay focused knowing Padilla is missing.
“Jackson County is our family away from home, so he`s one of ours and we want to find him,” she said.
Search crews also made their way to City Market.
“There’s a lot of people who love him and who are concerned for him and want to see him back,” said Reyes.
There is a feeling of desperation while family and friends wait for any word on his whereabouts. In the meantime, Reyes has this message for his cousin:
“Cuz, man, just reach out to somebody. Don’t be afraid to ask for help,” Reyes implored.
Earlier report:






Filed in: News Topics: jose Padilla 








			5 comments		




 

jeff

I think it might be time to consider the possibility that he killed himself. I would check the river or the wooded regions. I once read that depression is high in that line of work.




							July 14, 2014 at 12:15 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

DC

What does this mean:  wandered off?




							July 14, 2014 at 7:09 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Nick

Wasting more money on someone that wanders off when he can’t handle stress.




							July 14, 2014 at 9:55 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

DC

Wondering if he gets to keep his job after wandering away?




							July 14, 2014 at 10:03 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Anon for good reasons

I actually work there, they haven’t fired anyone for doing much worse things, I’m sure he will keep his job. No doubt.




							July 14, 2014 at 12:28 pm						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 810Varsity.com
Watch live high school games + scores, standings, stories!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

KCPD: New information on missing man Jose Padilla


News

Body of missing Arkansas realtor Beverly Carter found in shallow grave


News

Baby Lisa’s father addresses speculation at vigil marking 3rd anniversary of her disappearance


News

Man’s home in Sugar Creek marked ‘uninhabitable’ after police called out 36 times


News

Realtor vanishes on the job; suspect arrested



 


News

Family man’s funeral won’t be a burden thanks to anonymous donor


News

Police search for missing Sugar Creek man


News

‘Missing’ Detroit boy found in basement describes exhaustive exercise routine


News

Clay County Sheriff: Missing man has been found


News

Man’s first day back to work after wife’s murder is ‘hardest thing’ he’s ever done



 


News

Leavenworth police identify girl shot & killed Friday night: Cadence Harris, 5 years old


News

Family says relative from KCK living in Omaha didn’t deserve to die


News

Member of “Cops” TV show crew killed while filming in Omaha






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts











































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















