Pair arrested in disappearance of Charlie Bell, last seen in 2011 | fox4kc.com  
Pair arrested in disappearance of Charlie Bell, last seen in 2011 | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Pair arrested in disappearance of Missouri man who was last seen in 2011

Posted 8:28 pm, July 31, 2014, by AP Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 Patrick Curl (left) and Jennifer Freeman (right) have been arrested and charged with tampering with physical evidence related to the disappearance of Charlie Bell. (Photos: Boone County Sheriff's Department) 
COLUMBIA, Mo. (AP) — Two Columbia residents have been arrested in the 2011 disappearance of a central Missouri man, in a case investigators are now calling a homicide.
Thirty-four-year-old Charlie Bell, of Harrisburg, was the subject of a massive search after he was last seen riding his motorcycle on Sept. 15, 2011. His body has never been found.
The Columbia Daily Tribune reports 33-year-old Jennifer R. Freeman and 43-year-old Patrick L. Curl were arrested Wednesday. Both were held Thursday on $300,000 bond on charges of evidence tampering and hindering prosecution.
Online court records did not list attorneys for them.
Sheriff’s Detective Tom O’Sullivan says Freeman told investigators this week that Bell was killed at his home and that she and Curl were involved with cleaning the crime scene and disposing of the body. Det. O’Sullivan declined to say whether Freeman or Curl were involved in killing Bell.



Filed in: News 











 






 810Varsity.com
Watch live high school games + scores, standings, stories!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Nathaniel Kibby arrested in the kidnapping of New Hampshire teen


News

Authorities identify body found in Big Eleven Lake


News

Man, 27, charged with murder of 6-yr-old Fulton boy he was babysitting


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder


News

Realtor vanishes on the job; suspect arrested



 


News

Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham


News

Man killed his girlfriend’s 11-yr-old daughter, tried to stage it as a suicide, police say


News

‘Missing’ Detroit boy found in basement describes exhaustive exercise routine


News

Remains of Shane Miller found; police sought him in family’s slayings


News

70-year-old Lonny Mays found guilty of killing 66-year-old neighbor



 


News

Father charged in son’s slaying 31 years later also confessed to killing woman


News

Woman arrested after crash kills 2-year-old Missouri boy


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















