New Hampshire teen missing 9 months found | fox4kc.com  
New Hampshire teen missing 9 months found | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







New Hampshire teen missing 9 months found

Posted 6:59 am, July 22, 2014, by CNN Wire, Updated at 08:11am, July 22, 2014 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 
(CNN) — A New Hampshire teen who disappeared nine months ago is back home, the state attorney general’s office said Monday.
Neither the teen’s family nor authorities offered any information about where she was during those months.
The disappearance of 15-year-old Abigail Hernandez, who vanished on October 9 as she headed home from her high school in the town of Conway, according to the FBI, triggered nationwide media coverage and concerns by authorities then that she might have been abducted.
At a news conference in December, New Hampshire Associate Attorney General Jane Young said the teen “is not out there alone. She has somebody who is either helping her, whether that be a friend or what we fear is a foe.”
At that news conference, authorities revealed that Abigail’s mother had received a letter that appeared to be from her missing daughter. Although authorities did not reveal the contents of the letter, Young said “we believe in fact that it was written by Abby and was sent to her mother.”
Despite the concerns, her case was classified as a missing persons investigation during the months she was gone.
Abigail was safely reunited with her family Sunday evening, according to a press release from the attorney general’s office.
Citing an ongoing investigation, authorities did not release any information about Abigail’s disappearance.
Her mother, Zenya Hernandez, told law enforcement officers that “today we are the happiest people on earth,” according to the press release.



Filed in: News Topics: abigail hernandez, new hampshire 











 






Parisi Artisan Coffee
Specialty Coffees- Order Online and Join the Coffee Club!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Nathaniel Kibby arrested in the kidnapping of New Hampshire teen


News

Missing New Hampshire teen Abigail Hernandez is home, but case remains murky


News

Sudanese Christian woman who once faced death penalty arrives in U.S.


News

Texas girl Sabrina Allen, missing for 12 years, recovered with mother in Mexico


News

Police: Body found in Israeli forest is missing American hiker



 


News

First group of Hondurans deported from new U.S. facility


Education

Teen is a spirited advocate for learning history


News

Loss of Cady Harris is not the first time her mom has lived through death of a child


News

Police: Remains discovered are those of missing Holly Bobo


News

Police: Missing Mo., woman left to seek new life



 


News

2 are charged with kidnapping in abduction of Amish girls


News

Missing woman found stuck in quicksand in Utah park


News

Authorities say woman who pleaded guilty to drug counts hid meth in son’s toy police car






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















