Missing Afghan soldiers went to strip club before disappearing | fox4kc.com  
Missing Afghan soldiers went to strip club before disappearing | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Missing Afghan soldiers went to strip club before disappearing

Posted 12:03 pm, September 24, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 




(CNN) — The three Afghan National Army officers who disappeared while guests of the U.S. military at a training exercise in Massachusetts spent the night before they went missing at a strip club, police said.
The owner of Zachary’s Pub, a strip club in Mashpee, Massachusetts, notified police that that they believed Maj. Jan Mohammad Arash, Capt. Mohammad Nasir Askarzada and Capt. Noorullah Aminyar were at the club Friday night, according to Lt. John Santangelo of the Mashpee Police Department.
The men went missing Saturday and turned up Monday in the custody of Canadian border guards at the Rainbow Bridge, a checkpoint on the border at Niagara Falls. They are now being charged with immigration violations.
The men were in civilian clothes and were part of a group of about eight people, said Richard Halpern, the club’s owner.
“They were doing whatever a normal guy does when they go to a strip club,” he said, adding that they “stayed for a couple of hours and left at 1 a.m.”
Halpern said he received a call from military officials shortly after midnight on Saturday describing the missing soldiers and asking if he had seen them.
“Some of the girls said they didn’t seem to understand what they were doing,” Halpern told CNN. “It looked like it was their first time in a club.”
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials took custody of the three Tuesday morning, Massachusetts ICE spokesman Daniel Modricker told CNN.
They are being charged with administrative immigration violations and have been placed into removal proceedings, the spokesman said.
The men arrived in the United States on September 11 for the annual Exercise Regional Cooperation and were quartered at Joint Base Cape Cod, according to the Massachusetts National Guard. The training included troops from six nations.




Filed in: News Topics: Afghan soldiers 











 






Parisi Artisan Coffee
Specialty Coffees- Order Online and Join the Coffee Club!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Afghan soldiers go missing in Massachusetts after mall trip


News

Man arrested for breaking into 3 Lenexa businesses, leaving behind a mess


News

Police find body of missing Lenexa woman


News

Ferguson police were ‘aggressive,’ a critical Missouri governor says


News

Teens say fun night on the Plaza took terrifying turn when woman brandished gun



 


News

Couple held in Bali after American woman’s body found in suitcase


News

Michael Brown death: Missouri National Guard headed to Ferguson


News

Report: Gunman kills two at UPS facility before killing self


News

Police: Remains discovered are those of missing Holly Bobo


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder



 


News

Man charged with rape and beating of woman in Independence park


News

Witnesses to Michael Brown’s shooting detail his last minutes


News

8-yr-old Kansas girl freed herself from kidnappers






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















