Can arrest in Hannah Graham case solve other cases? - CNN.com 
Can arrest in Hannah Graham case solve other cases? - CNN.com





















SET EDITION:  U.S.
INTERNATIONAL
MÉXICO
ARABIC




TV:  
CNN
CNNi
CNN en Español
HLN





Sign up
Log in

















Home
TV & Video

U.S.
World
Politics
Justice
Entertainment
Tech
Health
Living
Travel
Opinion
iReport
Money
Sports


















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











Can arrest in Hannah Graham disappearance solve other cases? 



By Mariano Castillo and Eliott C. McLaughlin, CNN
updated 6:15 PM EDT, Tue September 30, 2014
















STORY HIGHLIGHTS


NEW: DNA links Jesse Matthew to death of Virginia Tech student, source says
He's also a suspect in the disappearance of student Hannah Graham
The University of Virginia student was last seen on September 13











(CNN) -- (CNN) -- The arrest of Jesse Matthew -- the suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham -- has resulted in a "significant break" in the 2009 death of another young woman in the same area, police said.
Virginia State Police say there is a "new forensic link" between the Hannah Graham case and the death of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, who went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009. Her remains were found on a farm months later.




Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington, 20, was murdered after leaving a Metallica concert in Charlottesville, Virginia, in October 2009.

Almost from the start, speculation was raised about the possibility of a connection between Graham's disappearance and Harrington's death.
"Certainly the question has arisen. It's certainly a legitimate question," Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters last week.




Police: Jesse Matthew linked to 2009 case





Abduction suspect questioned in rape case





Hannah Graham joins growing missing list





What led up to Graham's disappearance?

No arrests have been made in Harrington's case, and the cause of her death is still under investigation.
The last major development in the Harrington case came in 2010, when her slaying was connected to the kidnapping and sexual assault of another woman in Fairfax Virginia, in 2005.
That woman, who survived her ordeal, was able to provide police with enough of a description to make a sketch. That sketch is the closest thing to resolution that Harrington's family has had.
Police at the time did not give the name of the woman who gave the description and said only that "forensic evidence" linked the two.
The revelation that Matthew may be linked to Harrington's death, and the fact that Harrington's death is linked to the kidnapping and rape of the woman in Fairfax, raises even more questions. Police have not publicly connected the dots except to say that his arrest has given them a break in the investigation of Harrington's death. The suspect, Matthew was being held in isolation in a Virginia jail cell.
According to CNN affiliate WUSA, there are at least two other women besides Graham and Harrington who have disappeared from the same area since 2009. Alexis Murphy, 17, of Lovingston, and Samantha Clarke, 19, of Orange also went missing there.
In July, Randy Taylor, 43, was sentenced to two life terms for Murphy's 2013 abduction and murder, although her body was never found, WVIR reported.
"If you look at the map and place the many missing or murdered young women in our area, it is a startling graphic," Harrington's mother, Gil Harrington, told CNN last week. "I mean it`s a scatter pattern of loss. And either it`s a cluster phenomena or to me -- to my eyes it`s not unlikely that some of it, at least, is attributable to one top-tier predator."
Harrington didn't cite specific evidence for why she believes that at least some of the crimes might be the work of one person, but said she believes that solving the disappearance of Graham is key to unraveling the mysteries.
"Hannah is paramount right now. Her case is acute," Gil Harrington said.
Authorities took Matthew to Charlottesville, Virginia, on Friday after he agreed not to fight extradition from Texas, where he had been taken into custody after police obtained a warrant for his arrest on Tuesday.
Where is Hannah Graham?




Reporter: UVA suspect called a 'prowler'





Four women have vanished off Route 29





Dad: Every parent's worst nightmare

Investigators think he was the last person with Graham. He is charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, according to Charlottesville police.
Graham was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of the 18-year-old, a second-year student at the university.
Matthew's father has said his son is not the type to hurt anyone.
"For a big man, he's as gentle as they come," Jesse Matthew Sr. told CNN affiliate WTVR. "The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out."
"To kill or hurt somebody, that's not my son."
Authorities found Matthew on a Galveston County beach after deputies got a call about a suspicious person camping there. A license plate check revealed he was wanted, CNN affiliate KPRC reported.
Matthew did not resist arrest, police said.
Mike Rodenberg, a vacationer who was fishing near the campsite when Matthew was arrested, said Matthew asked about why he was throwing some of his catch back.
"He seemed real nice. He was real soft-spoken," Rodenberg said. "(He) said he was down here from New Jersey and was looking for a job. I told him if I caught another redfish he could have it."
In addition to Graham's disappearance, Matthew also has been questioned in connection with an alleged sexual assault nearly 12 years ago.
According to a statement from Lynchburg police, a woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University on October 17, 2002. Matthew was a student there for three years and played on the football team.
However, no charges were filed because the woman didn't want to go forward with the case, and investigators determined there wasn't enough evidence to arrest Matthew, said Michael Doucette, the commonwealth's attorney for Lynchburg.
Matthew told authorities that the woman consented, Doucette said, adding that there were no witnesses.
Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know

CNN's Steve Almasy, Jason Morris, Ed Lavandera, Jason Hanna, Jean Casarez, Ed Payne, Ben Brumfield and journalist Betsy Kaufman contributed to this report.















































Part of complete coverage on 
Where is Hannah Graham?


DNA links suspect to other cases

updated 6:38 PM EDT, Thu October 2, 2014




DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew, the suspect in the disappearance of Hannah Graham, to other cases in Virginia.



Parents: 'This person might be involved'

updated 2:32 PM EDT, Wed October 1, 2014




It was the picture of Jesse Matthew that made the father of slain Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington do a double-take. 



Where is Hannah Graham?

updated 8:23 AM EDT, Wed October 1, 2014




It was late on a Friday night and a freckled, blue-eyed student named Hannah Graham was partying in downtown Charlottesville, Virginia.



What led up to Graham's disappearance?

updated 7:08 PM EDT, Fri September 26, 2014




CNN's Erin McPike looks at the timeline of Hannah Graham's movements the night she went missing in Virginia.



Family of Morgan Harrington searches for answers 

updated 8:21 AM EDT, Wed October 1, 2014




Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, disappeared in 2009. Her remains were found a few months later but her death remains a mystery.



Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in '03

updated 9:38 AM EDT, Thu October 2, 2014




Jesse Matthew was investigated for alleged sexual assault when he was in college over a decade ago.



Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Graham suspect

updated 9:43 PM EDT, Thu October 2, 2014




Police across the state are scrambling to determine whether Jesse Matthew is linked to other slayings and disappearances. 



Video shows missing UVA student

updated 3:25 PM EDT, Thu September 18, 2014




Police in Charlottesville, Virginia, gave more details on the man seen on video following missing student Hannah Graham.



Graham joins growing missing list

updated 10:09 PM EDT, Mon September 29, 2014




CNN's Randi Kaye reports on other missing girls who have vanished in the same area of UVA student Hannah Graham.



Dad: Every parent's worst nightmare

updated 11:08 AM EDT, Sat September 27, 2014




The father of missing student Hannah Graham addresses the media and asks people to come forward if they know something.



Reporter: UVA suspect called a 'prowler'

updated 7:31 PM EDT, Fri September 26, 2014




Investigative journalist Coy Barefoot spoke with Jesse Matthews' friends about the night Hannah Graham disappeared.


 






















       



    



    



     




           



Home | Video | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports
Tools & widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts  | Desktop Alerts | CNN shop | Site map | Contact us 



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión
العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts | 


© 2014 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Work for us | Help
CNN Newsource | License Footage





      








