Neighbor Says Body of Missing Marine Wife Will Never Be Found: Court Documents  | KTLA  

Neighbor Says Body of Missing Marine Wife Will Never Be Found: Court Documents  | KTLA






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






KTLA

 Menu

News
Morning News
Contests
Traffic
Social
Events
About




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 66°
High 87°





Wed


					65°  85°
					


Thu


					65°  82°
					


Fri


					63°  82°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Neighbor Says Body of Missing Marine Wife Will Never Be Found: Court Documents

Posted 8:20 AM, July 22, 2014, by Ashley Soley-Cerro, Updated at 12:51pm, July 22, 2014 

Share this:FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





A Twentynine Palms woman who suspected her husband was having an affair with the young wife of a U.S. Marine who went missing over three weeks ago told a friend that the woman’s body would never be found, recently obtained court documents show.
Erin Corwin seen in a photo provided by the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.
Erin Corwin was three months pregnant when she was reported missing June 28. She was last seen at her residence and her car was found nearby less than a week later.
Investigators believe Corwin, who was 19 years old at the time of her disappearance, was having an affair with neighbor Christopher Brandon Lee and the two planned to go hunting the day she was last seen, according to an affidavit in support of a search warrant dated July 4 and obtained by The Desert Sun on Monday.
In a statement Tuesday, the Sheriff’s Department acknowledged the search warrant and the arrest of Lee on unrelated charges, but said the search for evidence of foul play in Corwin’s disappearance was continuing.
While interviewing Isabella Megli, the owner of a ranch where Corwin and Lee volunteered, authorities learned that Lee’s wife Nicole had made several comments to her about the investigation, the affidavit stated.
“Nicole told Isabella that without a body the detectives did not have a case against them and the detectives would never find the body,” the affidavit stated.
Nicole also said investigators had searched her residence but missed something because they didn’t go through the garage.
She also “berated Lee in front of Isabella about not being able to keep his lies straight when he was interviewed by detectives because he was dumb.”
Nicole and Lee had been storing belongings, including a firearm, at the ranch in preparation for a move to Alaska, the affidavit stated.
Lee was later arrested on July 4 for having a “destructive device” but released from custody after posting bail two days later, according to a Sheriff’s Department press release.
On Tuesday, the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department announced that investigators were “looking for a crime scene” and “evidence of foul play” in Corwin’s disappearance, but said there was “still not enough evidence to rule out that Erin Corwin could be voluntarily missing.”
The department’s statement acknowledged that Lee’s connection to Corwin prompted a search warrant that led to Lee’s “destructive device” arrest.
“Further information regarding the facts outlined in the search warrant will not be discussed,” the Sheriff’s Department statement read. “It is unfortunate such extensive details were released regarding this investigation because it can affect the outcome of the case.”
Officials have not named any suspects, but the affidavit showed investigators previously suspected something occurred during Corwin’s planned hunting trip with Lee.
Erin Corwin is seen in a photo provided by the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.
“It is highly likely Erin could have been harmed by an unknown firearm,” court documents stated. “Sometime after Erin left with Lee, her phone was deactivated (turned off). Detectives believe if Erin was injured and left an undisclosed location, she would not be able to call for help.”
Although Lee originally told authorities he did not know Corwin well, he later said they had kissed and grown close. He also said he went hunting on June 28, but not with Corwin.
Erin Corwin was described as 5 feet 2 inches tall, weighs 120 pounds, and has brown hair and blue eyes.
Anyone with information was asked to contact the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Specialized Investigations Division-Homicide Detail at 909-387-3589.
Those who wish to remain anonymous can call the We-Tip Hotline at 1-800-78-27463 (1-800-78-CRIME) or leave information on the We-Tip Hotline at http://www.wetip.com.




Filed in: Local News Topics: Erin Corwin, Jonathan Wayne Corwin, Joshua Tree National Park, Marine Corps base, pregnant, San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department, Twentynine Palms 











 






KTLA 5 News on Twitter








 

 


Popular



CHP Asks for Help From Witnesses Who Saw Irvine Crash That Killed 5 Teens



Memorials Held for 5 Teens Killed in Fiery Crash on Way Back From Knott’s Scary Farm



Fan Critically Injured After Being Beaten in Angel Stadium Parking Lot Following Playoff Game



Teen Driver in Fiery I-5 Crash in Irvine Didn’t Have a License;  5 Others Killed







 


Latest News



Lunar Eclipse …



OC Register Facing Flood of Complaints After Switching Delivery Services



Michael Phelps Suspended by USA Swimming for 6 Months



Tutor Sought in Alleged Computer Cheating Scandal at O.C. High School Arrested At LAX















Local News

Former Neighbor Arrested After Body of Marine’s Pregnant Wife Found in Mine Shaft


Local News

Murder Charge Filed in Death of Erin Corwin, Pregnant Wife of U.S. Marine


Local News

Search Continues for Missing Pregnant Woman in Joshua Tree National Park Area


Local News

Car Found in Search for Missing Pregnant Woman From Twentynine Palms


Local News

3 Members of Identity-Theft Crew Arrested in South Bay: Authorities



 


Local News

2 Horseback Riders Found Safe a Day After Being Reported Missing


Local News

Over 5,000 Marijuana Plants Found in San Bernardino County; 14 Arrested


Local News Weather

1 Dead, Authorities Search for Possible Missing Person Amid Flash-Flood Cleanup


Local News

Riverside Woman Who Stabbed Boyfriend 24 Times Then Dismembered Him Is Sentenced: DA


Local News

Man, Woman Booked on Suspicion of Burglarizing Vehicles in Highland



 


Local News

Woman Suspected of Sexually Assaulting Her 2 Daughters, Sending Pics to Prison Inmate


Local News

Bloomington Man, 48, Arrested on Suspicion of Molestation; Police Seek More Victims


Local News

Hesperia Couple Arrested for Allegedly Torturing 4-Year-Old






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
KTLA 5 News on Social Media
Watch CW Shows




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5800 Sunset Blvd. Los Angeles, CA, 90028  •
		Copyright © 2014, KTLA		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















