Former Neighbor Arrested After Body of Marine’s Pregnant Wife Found in Mine Shaft | KTLA  

Former Neighbor Arrested After Body of Marine’s Pregnant Wife Found in Mine Shaft | KTLA






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






KTLA

 Menu

News
Morning News
Contests
Traffic
Social
Events
About




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 66°
High 87°





Wed


					65°  85°
					


Thu


					65°  82°
					


Fri


					63°  82°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Former Neighbor Arrested After Body of Marine’s Pregnant Wife Found in Mine Shaft

Posted 10:43 AM, August 18, 2014, by Melissa Pamer and Chris Wolfe, Updated at 02:04pm, August 18, 2014 

Share this:FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 



A man who was believed to have had an affair with the pregnant wife of a U.S. Marine has been arrested in Alaska following the discovery of her body in a 140-foot mine shaft some seven weeks after she disappeared, authorities said Monday.
Christopher Lee was taken into custody about 10 p.m. Sunday on suspicion of the murder of Erin Corwin, San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon said at a news conference.
Erin Corwin is seen in a photo provided by the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.
Corwin was 19 years old and about three months pregnant when she was reported missing June 28, prompting an extensive search operation in Joshua Tree National Park.
Corwin had told her husband that she planned to scout out the park in advance of her mother’s planned visit from Tennessee, but she was never seen again. Her car was found in Twentynine Palms a day after she was reported missing.
Her husband, Cpl. Jonathan Wayne Corwin, who is stationed at Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center in Twentynine Palms, has not spoken publicly about his wife.
Corwin’s family released a statement Monday evening, expressing relief to have closure, but adding that they wanted time to “properly grieve and mourn” their loss.
“While we were praying for a different outcome, we cannot begin to express the gratitude we have for every person that has been involved in the search for Erin,” the statement read. “The countless hours that have been spent by volunteer search crews and multiple branches of law enforcement, especially the Specialized Investigations Division Homicide Detail, are more than we could have asked for and are ultimately what have led to finding her.”
The family added, “Please continue to pray for our family and for justice for Erin.”
Erin Corwin seen in a photo provided by the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.
McMahon and other officials released new information on the case at a noon news conference at Sheriff’s Department headquarters in San Bernardino.
Corwin’s body was found Saturday night at the bottom of a 140-foot mine shaft in the Mojave Desert on federal Bureau of Land Management property outside of the national park, authorities said.
Cellphone tracking helped searchers find Corwin in a 300 square-mile search area, authorities said. Some 100 mine shafts were identified and searched by specialized teams.
County firefighters descended into the shaft twice — once to collect evidence and a second time to retrieve Corwin’s body, fire officials said.
Christopher Brandon Lee was arrested in Anchorage on Aug. 17, 2014. Photo via San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.
Dental records were used to identify her remains on Sunday evening, and Lee, also a Marine corporal, was arrested a half-hour later, according to a Sheriff’s Department news release.
An autopsy conduction Monday showed the manner of her death was a homicide, the release stated. No information about the cause of her death was provided.
Detectives believe Corwin got into Lee’s Jeep before she disappeared.
Court documents showed that investigators believe Corwin had an affair with Lee.
Lee’s wife told the owner of a horse ranch where Corwin volunteered that “detectives did not have a case against them” and that Corwin’s body would never be found, according to an investigator’s affidavit.
Lee and his wife had planned to move to Alaska, the affidavit stated.
Erin Corwin is shown in a photo released by the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.
In the most recent previous update, on July 22, authorities said investigators were “looking for a crime scene” and “evidence of foul play” in Corwin’s disappearance, but said there was “still not enough evidence to rule out that Erin Corwin could be voluntarily missing.” They announced that Lee was arrested July 4 for having a “destructive device” but was released from custody after posting bail two days later.
If Lee fails to waive extradition, it will take four to five weeks for him to be returned from Alaska to San Bernardino County.
Charges against him will be decided within 48 hours, county District Attorney Michael Ramos said at Monday’s news conference.
Additional arrests were possible, authorities said without elaborating.
Family and friends joined volunteer search efforts and prayed for her safe return, according to a Facebook page called Locate Erin.
Hundreds of volunteers worked nearly 5,000 hours to find her body, authorities said.
Corwin’s disappearance was featured on the cover of People Magazine in late July.
Teams searched the areas of Rose of Peru, Brooklyn and Los Angeles mines on Saturday, finding her body, according to the Sheriff’s Department. The remote area is on a four-wheel drive road off unpaved Old Dale Road north of the park boundary and south of Highway 62 (map), according to a National Park Service map.


Homicide Sgt. Trevis Newport "… conducted interviews, looked at evidence and determined Lee was the most likely suspect.."
— SB County Sheriff (@sbcountysheriff) August 18, 2014



"Sunday August 17 at approx 10:00 pm Christopher Lee was arrested in Anchorage Alaska for the Murder of Erin Corwin" pic.twitter.com/QcmDDad2eu
— SB County Sheriff (@sbcountysheriff) August 18, 2014





Filed in: Local News Topics: Christopher Brandon Lee, Erin Corwin, Jonathan Wayne Corwin, Joshua Tree National Park, Marine Corps base, San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department, Twentynine Palms 











 






KTLA 5 News on Twitter








 

 


Popular



CHP Asks for Help From Witnesses Who Saw Irvine Crash That Killed 5 Teens



Memorials Held for 5 Teens Killed in Fiery Crash on Way Back From Knott’s Scary Farm



Fan Critically Injured After Being Beaten in Angel Stadium Parking Lot Following Playoff Game



Teen Driver in Fiery I-5 Crash in Irvine Didn’t Have a License;  5 Others Killed







 


Latest News



Lunar Eclipse …



OC Register Facing Flood of Complaints After Switching Delivery Services



Michael Phelps Suspended by USA Swimming for 6 Months



Tutor Sought in Alleged Computer Cheating Scandal at O.C. High School Arrested At LAX















Local News

Murder Charge Filed in Death of Erin Corwin, Pregnant Wife of U.S. Marine


Local News

Search Continues for Missing Pregnant Woman in Joshua Tree National Park Area


Local News

Car Found in Search for Missing Pregnant Woman From Twentynine Palms


Local News

Neighbor Says Body of Missing Marine Wife Will Never Be Found: Court Documents


Local News

Over 5,000 Marijuana Plants Found in San Bernardino County; 14 Arrested



 


Local News

Riverside Woman Who Stabbed Boyfriend 24 Times Then Dismembered Him Is Sentenced: DA


Local News

Hesperia Couple Arrested for Allegedly Torturing 4-Year-Old


Local News

2 Horseback Riders Found Safe a Day After Being Reported Missing


Local News Weather

1 Dead, Authorities Search for Possible Missing Person Amid Flash-Flood Cleanup


Local News

Woman Suspected of Sexually Assaulting Her 2 Daughters, Sending Pics to Prison Inmate



 


Local News

Bloomington Man, 49, Accused of Molesting 3 Girls


Local News

Bloomington Man, 48, Arrested on Suspicion of Molestation; Police Seek More Victims


Local News

Hesperia School Employee Arrested After ‘Intimate Relationship’ With Teen Uncovered: Sheriff’s Dept.






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
KTLA 5 News on Social Media
Watch CW Shows




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5800 Sunset Blvd. Los Angeles, CA, 90028  •
		Copyright © 2014, KTLA		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















