Man who reported girlfriend missing is now charged with her murder | Q13 FOX News  
Man who reported girlfriend missing is now charged with her murder | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







Man who reported girlfriend missing is now charged with her murder

Posted 3:51 PM, July 10, 2014, by Tyler Slauson, Updated at 05:12pm, July 10, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 
TACOMA — Prosecutors say a 41-year-old man killed his girlfriend and then reported her missing to police.
Now, William Grisso is charged with 1st degree murder. He pleaded not guilty Thursday in a Pierce County courtroom.
Prosecutors say Grisso reported 45-year-old Nancy Gardner missing on June 30th. He told them he left home to run errands, but when he returned the house was unlocked and she was gone.
Gardner’s keys, wallet and phone were still at the home. The only thing missing, he told them, was her handgun.
Officers said they noticed blood stains on Grisso’s shoes while they were interviewing him. The shoes were taken as evidence and tested to confirm that the stains were blood.
Neighbors told investigators they heard the couple arguing on the day Gardner went missing.
Several days later, officers spoke with Grisso again and noticed drops of blood along the side of the driver’s seat, according to prosecutors. Officers found the pistol Grisso said was missing in the console of the pickup truck.
Detectives found Gardner’s body using evidence found on her cell phone. They used data from three flower photos to track where they were taken. That led detectives to Belfair where they found her body.
The medical examiner has not yet determined Gardner’s cause of death.
Grisso is being held on $1 million bail.



Filed in: News 








			2 comments		




 

Kit

Another cruel man that thinks he's smarter than the rest of us. Ha! caught cha! A nice prison cell is waiting for this jerk.  




							July 10, 2014 at 5:07 PM						

Reply







 

Jess Wundrin

We only know one side of the story here, so it’s unwise to jump to conclusions. How do we know the girlfriend didn’t have this coming to her? I’m not saying she did….I’m just wondering




							August 7, 2014 at 3:26 PM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 GOTHAM
New Episode MON 8p
The good. The bad. The beginning. Watch Gotham on Q13 FOX.







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















Crime News

Arlington man accused of killing girlfriend in April now charged with child rape


Crime News

Man accidentally shoots, kills cousin during attempted robbery, prosecutors say


News

Alert store clerks rescue missing Snohomish girl; family friend says 60-year-old lured her with cookies


National & World News News

Detroit boy missing for nearly 2 weeks says he hid in basement out of fear


National & World News

Man charged with kidnapping in mysterious 9-month disappearance of N.H. teenager



 


Crime National & World News

Body of missing Arkansas real estate agent found in shallow grave, 33 year old man arrested


National & World News News

What has life been like for the ‘most hated woman in America’ since her acquittal three years ago?


News

Black Diamond man again charged with killing 86-year-old mom following release from mental hospital


Crime News

Prosecutors will seek life in prison for Tacoma man accused of 2 gruesome murders


News

Former cop charged with homicide in case of Oregon woman found in suitcase



 


National & World News

Officials confirm remains are those of missing nursing student Holly Bobo


Crime News

Double murder suspect/child rapist claims his roommates were thinking of grooming boys


National & World News

LEGO bricks help investigators solve 23-year-old murder case






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts







































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















