STILL MISSING: Authorities hunt for new clues in 6-year-old’s disappearance  | Q13 FOX News  
STILL MISSING: Authorities hunt for new clues in 6-year-old’s disappearance  | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







STILL MISSING: Authorities hunt for new clues in 6-year-old’s disappearance

Posted 11:30 AM, August 7, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 03:21pm, August 7, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 Crews search for missing 6-year-old Jenise Wright.  
BREMERTON — After four days of  searching, there is still no sign of 6-year-old Jenise Wright.
But officials and area residents refuse to give up hope.
“The number one focus is bringing Jenise home,” Kitsap County Sheriff’ Deputy Scott Wilson said Thursday morning at a press conference.
Little new information was available Thursday. Authorities have still closed off the road to Steele Creek — but won’t say why — and are pouring through hundreds of tips coming into the tipline, 1-800-Call-FBI.
“The public has been very helpful about all the tips coming in,” Wilson said.
FBI bulletin on Jenise Wright.
The FBI is bringing in specialized dogs to search through the woods around Jenise’s home.  Police asked East Bremerton residents to check their own yards and places on their property where the girl could be hiding.
Jenise was last seen Saturday night in her home, which is in the Steele Creek mobile home park in East Bremerton.
Jenise’s parents have said they would allow Jenise to walk through the neighborhood on her own and thought she was out playing Sunday morning. When she didn’t return home Sunday night, the parents called police.
In the briefing Wednesday afternoon, Wilson said officers have now expanded the search outside the limits of the mobile home park.
“We have finished with the deep canvass inside the park,” he said Wednesday. “We have received nothing but exceptional cooperation from residents inside the park. As a matter of fact … not a single warrant had to be obtained to gain consent, to gain authority, to go inside” all of the homes to search for Jenise.
The FBI said electronic billboards with Jenise’s information would be put up in Washington state and Oregon.
Mary Pelnar, 14, was one of the last people to see Jenise. She said they were together Saturday night.



“I was hanging out with her all day Friday and Saturday and I woke up and didn’t see her at all Sunday,” Mary said.
Melanie Davis, an older sister of Jenise, said, “It’s really tough … to be put in a situation like … to have something like this happen to our family. It’s heartbreaking. You are trying to hope for the best  and pray for the best that she makes it home safe and that she comes home to us.
“Every minute, every hour, it kills me not knowing anything. It’s something that you try not to think about … (but) it’s still on your mind.”
Sheriff’s deputies were in the process Wednesday of contacting all of the area’s registered sex offenders, interviewing them to determine where they were at the time of the disappearance.
Wilson said this task remained the most difficult, since some sex offenders in Kitsap County were transients.
Jenise is described as being about 3 feet tall and 45 pounds with dark hair. Anyone with information on her whereabouts is asked to contact police or 1-800-Call-FBI.






Filed in: News 








			2 comments		



		Pingback: Body believed to be missing 6-year-old found; no arrests made | Q13 FOX News 



		Pingback: Body of Missing 6-Year-Old Jenise Wright Found: Court Records Show That Father Has History Of Molesting Girls 



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






CRAIG FERGUSON IS BACK!
Watch “Celebrity Name Game” weeknights beginning at 6p on Q13 FOX.







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















News

SISTER OF MISSING 6-YEAR-OLD: ‘It’s heartbreaking … trying to hope for the best, pray for the best’


News

Body of missing 6-year-old Jenise Wright found: ‘This is going to be a criminal’ probe


Crime News

Death of 6-year-old Jenise Wright ruled a homicide; DNA being collected


News

Grief counselors to help students deal with Jenise Wright murder


Crime News

Authorities arrest teen in death of 6-year-old Bremerton girl



 


Crime News

Parents of 6-year-old Jenise Wright say teen accused of killing her was family friend


News

‘Jenise was a bright star in our lives:’ Memorial service held for slain 6-year-old girl


News

Intensive search for missing girl: ‘Jenise Wright is one of ours … we want her back’


News

MISSING CHILD: Police looking for 6-year-old girl last seen Saturday night; other children removed from home


News

‘Jenise is gone, but we can and will find justice for her’



 


News

Jenise Wright’s parents still don’t know when they will regain custody of their kids


News

Police: Innocent family’s car torched, another scratched with reference to Jenise Wright’s murder


News

Former FBI profiler: What agents will be looking for in Jenise Wright case






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















