SISTER OF MISSING 6-YEAR-OLD: ‘It’s heartbreaking … trying to hope for the best, pray for the best’  | Q13 FOX News  
SISTER OF MISSING 6-YEAR-OLD: ‘It’s heartbreaking … trying to hope for the best, pray for the best’  | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







SISTER OF MISSING 6-YEAR-OLD: ‘It’s heartbreaking … trying to hope for the best, pray for the best’

Posted 9:50 PM, August 6, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 10:58am, August 6, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 


BREMERTON — After four days of  searching, there is still no sign of 6-year-old Jenise Wright. Police asked East Bremerton residents to check their own yards and places on their property where the girl could be hiding.
“Take a moment and walk the property line, look in the bushes,” Kitsap County sheriff’s deputy Scott Wilson said in a request to county residents at his Wednesday afternoon news briefing. “If you have a hot tub with a cover on it, lift it up.”
The FBI is bringing in specialized dogs to search through the woods around Jenise’s home.
Jenise was last seen Saturday night in her home, which is in the Steele Creek mobile home park in East Bremerton.
Jenise’s parents have said they would allow Jenise to walk through the neighborhood on her own and thought she was out playing Sunday morning. When she didn’t return home Sunday night, the parents called police.



In the briefing Wednesday afternoon, Wilson said officers have now expanded the search outside the limits of the mobile home park.
“We have finished with the deep canvass inside the park,” he said. “We have received nothing but exceptional cooperation from residents inside the park. As a matter of fact … not a single warrant had to be obtained to gain consent, to gain authority, to go inside” all of the homes to search for Jenise.
Wilson said Jenise’s parents took polygraph tests, but that the results would not be released publicly.
“The family continues to provide considerable cooperation,” he said. “We are deeply appreciative.”
He also said, “Evidence continues to be gathered, processed and analyzed. I can’t go into detail concerning what that evidence may be.”
The FBI said electronic billboards with Jenise’s information would be put up in Washington state and Oregon.
Mary Pelnar, 14, was one of the last people to see Jenise. She said they were together Saturday night.
“I was hanging out with her all day Friday and Saturday and I woke up and didn’t see her at all Sunday,” Mary said.
Melanie Davis, an older sister of Jenise, said, “It’s really tough … to be put in a situation like … to have something like this happen to our family. It’s heartbreaking. You are trying to hope for the best  and pray for the best that she makes it home safe and that she comes home to us.
“Every minute, every hour, it kills me not knowing anything. It’s something that you try not to think about … (but) it’s still on your mind.”
Sheriff’s deputies were in the process Wednesday of contacting all of the area’s registered sex offenders, interviewing them to determine where they were at the time of the disappearance.
Wilson said this task remained the most difficult, since some sex offenders in Kitsap County were transients.
They were also investigating the dozens of tips sent in by concerned residents, though none of those were yet to turn into much.
More than 100 people were in the area of Jenise’s residence searching for the girl. Search and rescue teams from across Western Washington are now part of the search, as well as FBI and specialists from their child abduction response team.
Jenise is described as being about 3 feet tall and 45 pounds with dark hair. Anyone with information on her whereabouts is asked to contact police or 1-800-Call-FBI.
In the following interview, former FBI profiler David Gomez explains what agents will be looking for in this type of investigation:



 



Filed in: News 








			13 comments		




 

Amanda

I dont get why theyre saying that this is not an obduction. When it clearly is. Freaking stupid.




							August 6, 2014 at 6:55 PM						

Reply







 

The World is Ending

Why won’t they release the parents polygraph test? We already know the dad is a child molester, he would be my #1 suspect of being involved in some foul play. The police need to be “casually” talking to him, if he is involved he will eventually say something, everybody who has done something wrong dose.




							August 7, 2014 at 1:24 AM						

Reply







 

cat

He is not a child molester. let me tell all of you naïve ppl something….cps or dcfs or whatever those Nazis are called in Washington don’t always get it right. I’m sure its hard for you all to believe…. But its true. all it takes is one person to make an allegation like that about a man. And his life is over. Those charges against James were dropped. He is not on the sex offender list, so he is not a child molester. you people have no idea what happened 10 years ago when he was accused of that ….crap. and Child Protective Services make it near impossible for you to fighta charge like that, when you are innocent. It could happen to anyone of you judgmental ignorant posters. All it takes is a brainwashed kid and an overzealous social worker, like what happened to James 10 years ago.aand believe it or not,some people plead guilty to a crime they did not do, because the alternative is going to prison for a crime you did not do.James would rather plead guilty and be at home, than take a chance at trial where cps and lying child psychologists paid by the state will swear up n down to a jury that he is guilty. And for sure a jury would convict. because people like you would be on that jury, people that are way to quick to condemn before hearing all facts. Look at your posts HERE. “The father did it”  “the father is a child molester” (when it clearly states that those charges were dropped, and he isn’t on the rso list) so you are all a perfect example of why men like James had to plead guilty to a crime he didn’t commit. Oh and by the way……James and Denise DID pass their polys. 100%. That should be revealed to the press today or tomorrow sometime. so, instead of accusing James, and writing nasty posts about two parents that are heartbroken right now, why don’t you all pray for the safe return of Jenice.




							August 7, 2014 at 8:07 AM						

Reply







 

CME

Your right the focus should be on praying for Jenise. This is what happens to our world when you take GOD out of the picture. The world is a sick and sad place. So I pray for Jenise Wright’s safe return and justice to be served for this CHILD.




							August 7, 2014 at 11:42 AM						

Reply







 

Mai güdness

CAT: You are either his mother or his wife that’s too embarrassed to show her face in the media. You obviously know him, the police didnt release the polygraph test’s, so in order for you to know that, you must know this trash pretty well. You should be reported for releasing FBI evidence on the internet like this. Also, he has SEX OFFENDER on his criminal record. It’s not made up. I would never let a SEX OFFENDER around my children. I dont think you should be telling anyone anything, because naïve people like you are the ones who’s poor children end up getting molested and in this case killed. People of the likes of you give the wrong people too many chances and understanding and that is your flaw. She was found dead. I’ll pray her killer is caught and put to justice. In the meantime, you need to lay back down by your dog dish and shut up, because no one needs to understand anything about trash or stupidity.




							August 9, 2014 at 7:50 PM						

Reply







 

Mai güdness

And I guarantee you if he pleads guilty he WON’T be coming home. They don’t do that honey. Dream on.




							August 9, 2014 at 7:52 PM						

Reply











 

silly2

A 6 year old is allowed to wander free all day with no supervision? How stupid are these people?




							August 7, 2014 at 5:19 AM						

Reply







 

Yours Truly

As much as I hate to say it, the family kind of had it coming… just like Silly2 said, if the family is dumb enough to let a 6 year old out of the house to “go roam around by themselves” (freakin meth head parents or something), then why should they be surprised when she gets abducted? YOU WERE THE IDIOTS THAT LET HER OUTSIDE IN THE FIRST PLACE!!!!? Hold the parents accountable. They have got to be the worst and most stupid parents on earth. You’d think they would learn and have common sense enough to not the kid leave without parental supervision. smh.




							August 7, 2014 at 7:59 AM						

Reply







 

Sickoftrash

TRASH!!! These parents are worthless trash, and I don’t feel a bit sorry for them. In fact, if it’s true that they let her wander the trailer park at all hours, and didn’t report her missing for 24 hours, they themselves should be charged with capital murder.  I’m so sad for this baby who died all alone- if not by the hands of her own predator sperm donor- and I pray that she’s in a better place where she will never hurt again. Let these parents burn in hell!!!




							August 7, 2014 at 4:59 PM						

Reply







 

Doll Face

What i want to know is just what in the Hell were her parents THINKING!? She’s practically a baby and they let her roam around by herself? Whenever and wherever?! The fact that she never appeared in her room where she should be the next morning would raise  a red flag for me right then and there!!




							August 7, 2014 at 8:21 PM						

Reply







 

Shelly Stow

I am stunned at the viciousness of some of these comments. The family needs our prayers and best wishes. If a family member is responsible for her disappearance, it will be all the more tragic. A stranger to the family who is on the sex offender registry is, statistically, much less likely to have taken or harmed her than someone well known to the child and to the family. I do not know the neighborhood or the maturity of the child, but a blanket condemnation of letting a six year old play alone close to her home is also wrong. Please quit posting things that are hurtful and vicious and hope and pray for her safety and for those hunting for her.




							August 8, 2014 at 7:06 AM						

Reply







 

mark williams

Wow! Yes the father is on the regitered list but that doesnt mean he did this. Not biting that a guy accused of moleststion has to plead guilty. Been in that spot myself and pleaded innocent and was found innocent. Its the same for 1000s of other guys.
Jenices freedom wasnt the normal kind we give kids.  This child wasnt eben missed for a suspected minimum of 9 hours!




							August 8, 2014 at 10:23 AM						

Reply







 

Shelly Stow

Yes, you are correct; your point is very valid and something was clearly amiss. Now that the child has been found dead, the tragedy is compounded. I can only pray for justice for her.




							August 8, 2014 at 5:48 PM						

Reply








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 HELL’S KITCHEN
New Episode WED 8p on Q13 FOX.







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















News

STILL MISSING: Authorities hunt for new clues in 6-year-old’s disappearance


News

Intensive search for missing girl: ‘Jenise Wright is one of ours … we want her back’


News

Body of missing 6-year-old Jenise Wright found: ‘This is going to be a criminal’ probe


Crime News

Death of 6-year-old Jenise Wright ruled a homicide; DNA being collected


Crime News

Parents of 6-year-old Jenise Wright say teen accused of killing her was family friend



 


Crime News

Authorities arrest teen in death of 6-year-old Bremerton girl


News

‘Jenise is gone, but we can and will find justice for her’


News

MISSING CHILD: Police looking for 6-year-old girl last seen Saturday night; other children removed from home


News

‘Jenise was a bright star in our lives:’ Memorial service held for slain 6-year-old girl


News

MISSING GIRL: Search for 6-year-old enters third day



 


News

Grief counselors to help students deal with Jenise Wright murder


Crime News

Teen accused of killing 6-year-old girl charged with rape, murder as adult


Crime News

Teen suspected of killing 6-year-old girl to be tried as adult






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

























































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















