Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia | Q13 FOX News  
Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						
















Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia

Posted 9:24 AM, September 27, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



(CNN) — Jesse Matthew, a suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, is being held in isolation in a Virginia jail cell, authorities said Saturday.
Authorities took Matthew to Charlottesville, Virginia, on Friday after he agreed not to fight extradition from Texas, where he had been taken into custody after police obtained a warrant for his arrest on Tuesday. Investigators think he was the last person with Graham.
He is charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, according to Charlottesville police.
He was offered two phone calls, but refused to make them, according to the Albemarle Charlottesville Regional Jail. He’s sleeping on a mattress on the floor in a cell so spare that it doesn’t even have bathroom facilities, according to a jail official.

Graham was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of the 18-year-old, a second-year student the university.
Matthew willingly went to a Virginia police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said. He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, police said.
Matthew’s father said his son is not the type to hurt anyone.
“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” Jesse Matthew Sr. told CNN affiliate WTVR. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.”
“To kill or hurt somebody, that’s not my son.”
Found camping on the beach
Authorities found Matthew on a Galveston County beach after deputies got a call about a suspicious person camping there. A license plate check revealed he was wanted, CNN affiliate KPRC reported.
Matthew did not resist arrest, police said.
Mike Rodenberg, a vacationer who was fishing near the campsite when Matthew was arrested, said Matthew asked about why he was throwing some of his catch back.
“He seemed real nice. He was real soft-spoken,” Rodenberg said. “(He) said he was down here from New Jersey and was looking for a job. I told him if I caught another red fish he could have it.”
Matthew told him that his name was George, Rodenberg said. Nothing really seemed out of the ordinary until the police showed up.
Questioned in another case
In addition to Graham’s disappearance, Matthew also has been questioned in connection with an alleged sexual assault nearly 12 years ago.
According to a statement from Lynchburg police, a woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University on October 17, 2002. Matthew was a student there for three years and played on the football team.
However, no charges were filed because the woman didn’t want to go forward with the case, and investigators determined there wasn’t enough evidence to arrest Matthew back then, said Michael Doucette, the commonwealth’s attorney for Lynchburg, Virginia.
Matthew told authorities that the woman consented, Doucette said, adding that there were no witnesses.


CNN’s Jason Hanna, Jean Casarez, Ed Payne, Ben Brumfield and journalist Betsy Kaufman contributed to this report.




Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








			2 comments		




 

Rick

I’m surprised the media keeps showing his photo, since he is black. This will upset uncle Al and the rest of the “embrace diversity” crowd.




							September 27, 2014 at 9:34 AM						

Reply







 

Lee

Report the full story on Matthew. Read Coy Barefoot’s article on Inside Charlottesville. Matthew  physically assaulted (An unwanted touching is an assault) both women and men on the night of Hannah Graham’s disappearance.




							September 27, 2014 at 10:22 AM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 GOTHAM
New Episode MON 8p
The good. The bad. The beginning. Watch Gotham on Q13 FOX.












Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68










Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03


National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach


Crime National & World News

REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student






National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance






National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts







































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















