DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women  | Q13 FOX News  
DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women  | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women

Posted 8:17 AM, September 30, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



Jesse Matthew Jr. forensically linked to both Morgan Harrington (left) and Hannah Graham (right). Courtesy WTVR-TV
(CNN) — DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew, a suspect in this month’s disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, to the death of Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington, who disappeared in 2009, a law enforcement source told CNN Monday.
Virginia State Police had said earlier that the two cases were connected by a “forensic link” but did not elaborate. Almost from the start, speculation was raised about the possibility of a connection between Graham’s disappearance and Harrington’s death.
“Certainly the question has arisen. It’s certainly a legitimate question,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters last week.
Harrington was a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student when she went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009. Her remains were found on a farm months later.
No arrests have been made in Harrington’s case, and the cause of her death is still under investigation.
Graham, a student at the University of Virginia, was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, who was a second-year student at the university.
Investigators say they believe Matthew was the last person with Graham. He is charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, according to Charlottesville police.
The last major development in the Harrington case came in 2010, when her slaying was connected to the kidnapping and sexual assault of another woman in Fairfax Virginia, in 2005.
That woman, who survived her ordeal, was able to provide police with enough of a description to make a sketch. That sketch is the closest thing to resolution that Harrington’s family has had.
Police at the time did not give the name of the woman who gave the description and said only that “forensic evidence” linked the two.
The revelation that Matthew may be linked to Harrington’s death, and the fact that Harrington’s death is linked to the kidnapping and rape of the woman in Fairfax, raises even more questions. Police have not publicly connected the dots except to say that Matthew’s arrest has given them a break in the investigation of Harrington’s death
Matthew was being held in isolation in a Virginia jail cell.


CNN’s Pam Brown and Mary Kay Mallonee contributed to this story




Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: Crime, National & World News 








			1 Comment		




 

rob

The toughest thing to watch is the unimaginable suffering that the parents/family are going through while Mr. Matthews “lawyers up” and won’t talk.
To hell with his rights. Waterboard the worthless pos.




							September 30, 2014 at 4:26 PM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 Q13 FOX NEWS AT 11
Tracking Tomorrow Tonight. 
It’s 30 minutes focused exclusively on how tonight’s developing news will impact you tomorrow. 
And how the weather you felt today will affect what you see outside in the morning.
Q13 FOX News at 11







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance


Crime National & World News

REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)



 


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student


Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach



 


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















