REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student | Q13 FOX News  
REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student

Posted 10:15 AM, September 29, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 10:25am, September 29, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Virgina —The suspect in the abduction of an 18-year-old in Charlottesville Virgina earlier this month has been linked to a previous disappearance of a 20-year-old Virgina Tech student reported WTVR-TV.
Reporter Laura French cited sources close to the investigation saying authorities had forensically linked the man accused in the abduction of Hanna Graham to the disappearance of VT student Morgan Harrington in 2009.
Those sources indicated to WTVR-TV that forensic evidence belonging to Graham suspect Jesse Matthew Jr., matched forensic evidence collected during the Harrington investigation.
MORE:  READ ALL OF WTVR-TV’S COVERAGE OF THE SEARCH FOR HANNA GRAHAM
The sources would not indicate what Matthew may or may not have done with Harrington, however the sources indicated that the forensic evidence match showed Harrington had some sort of contact with Matthew the night she disappeared outside John Paul Jones arena on October 17, 2009. Her remains were found in January 2010 on an Albemarle County farm.
Jesse Matthew Jr. forensically linked to both Morgan Harrington (left) and Hannah Graham (right). Courtesy WTVR-TV
“For the past five years, the Virginia State Police has been aggressively pursuing the investigation into the disappearance and death of 20-year-old Morgan D. Harrington of Roanoke, Va,” Virginia State Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller wrote in an email following the WTVR-TV report. “Last week, the arrest of Jesse L. Matthew Jr., 32, of Charlottesville, Va., provided a significant break in this case with a new forensic link for state police investigators to pursue. There is a still a great deal of work to be done in regards to this investigation and we appreciate the public’s patience as we move forward.”
“We worked five years to get to this point, so we are relieved,” Morgan Harrington’s mother Gil said. Harrington added it was now time for her to take a step back and let investigators do their job and find Hannah.
“We are heartbroken for her family. We know what they’re going through,” Harrington told WTVR.com in the days after Graham disappeared. “Police need information. They need to process tips. Please reach out to police and do not be the filter. Even if you think it does not make sense, let police be the filter.”
Two years after Morgan Harrington’s remains were found, the FBI released a sketch of the man they said had contact with the Virginia Tech student. The sketch was released after investigators found forensic evidence that linked a 2005 sex assault in Fairfax to Harrington’s disappearance.
Where is Hannah?
Hannah Graham was officially reported missing on September 14, though she was last seen the early hours of September 13.
Jesse Matthew’s car and apartment were searched five days later, on September 19, after police reviewed video and spoke with witnesses. The next day Matthew was reported to have sped away from the overt surveillance Virginia State Police had on him.
He was next named a suspect, after police received more forensic evidence.
On September 24, police in Texas were alerted to a suspicious man camping on the beach in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, approximately 1,300 miles from Charlottesville. When they ran his license plate number around 3:30 p.m., they found out he was wanted in Virginia.
Matthew was charged with giving false information to a police officer. A federal law enforcement source confirmed a phone call made from a borrowed cell phone in Louisiana, to Virginia, is how police first discovered Jesse Matthew was out of the state and on the run.
Matthew was flown back to Virginia on September 26 and taken to Albemarle County Jail. He is expected to make an initial court appearance on Thursday where he will face an abduction with intent defile charge.
Anyone with information regarding Graham’s whereabouts should call (434) 295-3851 or 1-800-THE-LOST.



Filed in: Crime, National & World News 








			4 comments		




 

Joe

It’s America’s disease, the big troubles are nigh.




							September 29, 2014 at 10:51 AM						

Reply







 

Bubba Cat

It sure is, Joe.




							September 29, 2014 at 12:32 PM						

Reply









 

Courtney

Most serial killers are white people are dumb look at every serial killer and you’ll realize you two are racist.




							September 29, 2014 at 8:23 PM						

Reply







 

Skip

More like Ted Bundy or Gary Ridgeway.




							September 29, 2014 at 2:39 PM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 GOTHAM
New Episode MON 8p
The good. The bad. The beginning. Watch Gotham on Q13 FOX.







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03



 


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know



 


National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach


National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts











































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















