Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham | Q13 FOX News  

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						
















Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham

Posted 6:04 PM, September 23, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 Hannah Elizabeth Graham 
(CNN) — Authorities have obtained an arrest warrant for Jesse Matthew, charging him with abduction with the intent to defile, in the case of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said Tuesday.
Police believe Matthew was the last person with Graham before her disappearance. She was last seen Sept. 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the downtown mall.
The Charlottesville Police Department is circulating a wanted poster for the 32-year-old Matthew, who is also wanted for two counts of reckless driving.
He is described as an African American man, 6-foot-2, 270 pounds. He is known to have contacts in Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Washington, D.C.

Longo declined to provide additional details on the case.
“Between now and the time that this matter goes to trial, we need to be very sensitive about the information that we share,” he said.
However, the police chief stressed: “We absolutely are continuing our search for Hannah.”
On the evening of September 12, she was seen at a party before friends saw her at an apartment complex a couple of blocks away. That was shortly before midnight, according to a time line compiled by CNN affiliate WVIR.
Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know
About 12:45 a.m. on September 13, a surveillance camera caught her outside a pub, about three-quarters of a mile from the apartment complex. A doorman turned her away at the pub, Longo said Sunday.
Ten minutes later, she is seen running past a gas station — no one appears to be pursuing her — and witnesses say they saw her five minutes later roughly four blocks from the gas station, WVIR reported. She was at a restaurant, witnesses said.
Videos offer clues in search for missing student
The surveillance camera at an Italian cafe captured her walking along the mall about 1:06 a.m. The camera at a jewelry store recorded her passing two minutes later, WVIR reported.
At 1:20 a.m. she texted her friends to say was lost and trying to find a party, WVIR reported. She and a man were seen having drinks at a bar between 1:30 and 2 a.m., WVIR said.
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
They are are offering a $50,000 reward for information leading to her safe return.
Graham, 18, is a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
“Hannah is beyond precious to us,” her parents said in a statement released shortly after her disappearance. “We are truly devastated by her disappearance. It’s totally out of character for us not to have heard from her, and we fear foul play.”



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








			4 comments		




 

Dustin

It’s partially her own fault for choosing to hang out with his type. A pretty young white girl is a championship trophy for a black thug.




							September 24, 2014 at 8:42 AM						

Reply







 

Concerned about ignorance

What a dumb thing to say.  It is not her fault that someone else committed a crime against her.  Yes she could have used better judgement however it is 100% the perpetrators fault and not her fault.  Unbelievable you would make this a race thing.  It could go the opposite way that a pretty young black girl could be a championship trophy for a white thug!!!  Color/race is not a factor in this situation!




							September 24, 2014 at 11:39 AM						

Reply









 

James Blair

Why not post his picture? [img]http://assets.nydailynews.com/polopoly_fs/1.1950411.1411514378!/img/httpImage/image.jpg_gen/derivatives/article_970/splash-uva-0923.jpg[/img]




							September 24, 2014 at 10:48 AM						

Reply







 

ryan goslean

She went off with that black guy to get high and or drink more.  She got too messed up.  Then overdosed and or suffered alcohol poisoning.  He had sex with her not knowing she was deceased rather than just passed out.  Once Jesse figured out she was gone, he got rid of her body.  Either that or he wanted some sex, she said no and he went into a fit of “michael brown rage” with the same outcome of having to hide her body.




							September 24, 2014 at 4:27 PM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 HELL’S KITCHEN
New Episode WED 8p on Q13 FOX.












Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68










Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student


Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women






National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03


Crime National & World News

REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student






National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts











































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















