Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham issue statement | WTVR.com  
Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham issue statement | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham beseech students to be safe this weekend

Posted 2:39 pm, September 19, 2014, by Alix Bryan, Updated at 02:58pm, September 19, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 



 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — University of Virginia student Hannah Graham was last seen Friday, Sept. 12, and reported missing Sunday, Sept. 14.
Hannah’s parents, John and Sue Graham, issued a statement after the vigil held Thursday night.
Dear Members of the UVa Community:
Last night, we attended the candlelight vigil organized by the students at the University of Virginia. We found the vigil to be extremely moving and would like to offer our sincere thanks to the students for arranging the event and to the University for enabling our attendance.
We were comforted by the evident high esteem in which our cherished daughter is held by her many friends at the University of Virginia and beyond.
We continue to be optimistic that Hannah will soon be returned safely to us. We repeat our previous appeal to contact the Charlottesville Police Department if you have any information that could help the Department’s enquires.
Lastly, it is now Friday, a week since Hannah’s disappearance. For those students planning to unwind this weekend, please be extra vigilant when you are out and walk with a buddy.
– John and Sue Graham
The search continues for the missing teen. On Friday police executed  two search warrants in connection to the case. A press conference is expected later in the afternoon, and police are hoping these search warrants will lead to a major break in the case.
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.
Searches will continue throughout the weekend, with volunteer help requested.
All surveillance videos can be seen here.
All reports filed on this case can be found here.



Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared


News

Police search for ‘person of interest’ in UVa. student Hannah Graham disappearance


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’



 


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

University of Virginia students, football fans wear ‘Hope for Hannah’ ribbons



 


News

‘You make things good Hannah Graham, where are you?’ friend says at vigil


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















