Florida State football opponent preview: Notre Dame - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State football opponent preview: Notre Dame - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







×
Connect with Tomahawk Nation










Florida State Football


Florida State football opponent preview: Notre Dame

    By Bud Elliott and Josh Pick


    on Oct 14 2014, 5:53p

    

80











Joe Camporeale-USA TODAY Sports



Tomahawk Nation is setting up preview pages for each of Florida State's football opponents. This is the page for Notre Dame. The Irish travel to Tallahassee on October 18.




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




80


      Comments
    


⋆
Rec
 Recommend this Post

      2
    




10/13 Update
There are certain games when you sense a team is looking ahead to their next opponent. To me, this was clearly the case w/ Notre Dame Saturday. The Irish struggled mightily w/ a mediocre (but talented) UNC squad, before coming from behind to beat the Tar Heels 50-43. Irish fans could finally breathe a sigh of relief when Ben Koyack recovered an onside kick w/ 0:47 remaining in South Bend.
Everett Golson went 21-38 for 300 yards (7.9 yds/pass), w/ 3 TD's & 1 INT. He also ran for 71 yards on 12 carries (5.9 yds/rush), but fumbled twice. Golson's INT was of the pick-6 variety & both his fumbles led to short Tar Heel TD's, as well. With 3 more TO's vs. UNC, Golson now has NINE in his last 3 games. That obviously doesn't bode well for an Irish team set to play their first true road game of the year vs. the #2 Seminoles. Having said that, Golson's a mobile QB, & a talented signal-caller, so FSU needs to create a pass rush while remaining committed to containment. The Noles showed vs. NCSU that a dual-threat QB can punish lack of discipline/poor tackling.





Another player to keep an eye on is Tarean Folston. The sophomore RB from Cocoa, FL gained 169 yards on only 23 touches (7.35 yds/touch), while also scoring 3 TD's. FSU's LB's will need to play their finest game of the year. It would obviously help if Bill Miller's unit can get contributions from Matthew Thomas & Ukeme Eligwe.
Defensively, Notre Dame has been solid all season, but they certainly struggled on Saturday (however, as we mentioned earlier, 21 of UNC's 43 points were the result of Golson's TO's). The Irish gave up 510 yards on 84 plays (6.07 yds/play). Most of this came from the arm/legs of Marquise Williams. UNC's QB was 24-41 for 303 yards (7.4 yds/pass), w/ 2 TD's & 1 INT. He also gained 132 yards & a TD on 18 carries (7.3 yds/rush). The Irish allowed 184 rushing yards on 42 carries (4.4 yds/rush). However, if you take QB runs out of the equation, the Tar Heels only accumulated 52 yards on 24 runs (2.17 yds/rush). Those numbers are staggering, & it's obviously a cause for concern, as FSU has struggled to get a consistent running game going in 2014. It'll be interesting to see if Jimbo Fisher tries to use Jameis Winston on some QB runs to try & replicate some of UNC's success vs. Notre Dame. I also wonder if the Noles will go to a quicker offense this weekend. They don't usually like to stay in hurry-up mode, but North Carolina definitely had success w/ their fast-paced offense, as the Irish lack the requisite defensive depth to stay fresh.
If you want to know more about the Notre Dame pass D, you're in luck. This snapshot captures how the Irish secondary has fared against Power-5 teams in 2014.
For more on the Irish, check out One Foot Down. They feature a more in-depth look at Notre Dame's game vs. UNC this past weekend in their North Carolina Review.
SB Nation's Bill Connelly also did a Study Hall on UNC vs. Notre Dame. The Irish got inside UNC's 40-yard line 7 times. They scored a TD all 7 times! I highly doubt they repeat that rate against a more talented FSU defense.





Fun stat: Everett Golson is 18-0 as Notre Dame's starting QB in non-bowl games (he QB'd the Irish in their blowout loss to Alabama in the 2012 National Championship game for his only collegiate loss). Jameis Winston is also 18-0 as FSU's starting QB in non-bowl games (of course, JW led FSU to the National Championship over Auburn last season).
Up next: ND at #2 FSU in Tallahassee Saturday night on ABC.
5:40 PM 10/10 Update


THIS JUST IN: Suspended Notre Dame CB KeiVarae Russell won't play this year. Status of other 4 players unclear. (via ESPN and media reports)
— SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) October 10, 2014

 



10/6 Update
It isn't necessarily pretty (especially this week), but Notre Dame just keeps winning (very similar to their 2012 season). This week, it was the Fighting Irish getting an Everett Golson TD pass to Ben Koyack on 4th & 11 w/ only 1:01 left in the 4th quarter, to top Stanford 17-14 in South Bend.
Bill Connelly did a Study Hall of Stanford vs. Notre Dame. Although the numbers are sometimes difficult to decipher, his last paragraph sums the game up nicely.
Notre Dame gained 370 yards 75 plays (4.93 yds/play). They held Stanford to a paltry 205 yards on 68 plays (3.01 yds/play). Each team turned it over 2 times. Golson was 20-43 for 241 yards (5.6 yds/pass), w/ 2 TD's & an INT. He also carried it 7 times for 34 yards & lost a fumble. Stanford QB, Kevin Hogan (who isn't very good), was 18-36 for 158 yards (4.4 yds/pass) w/ 0 TD & 2 INT vs. a seemingly stingy Irish D. Notre Dame only gained 129 yards on 32 carries (4.0 yds/rush). Take out C.J. Prosise's lone carry for 26 yards, & that number plummets to 103 yards on 31 carries (3.32 yds/rush). When you think of Stanford's offense, you think of a heavy reliance on the running game. Notre Dame held the Cardinal to just 47 yards on 32 carries (1.5 yds/rush). This tells me if FSU doesn't get their ground game going, it could put a lot of undue pressure on Jameis Winston & FSU's OL vs. a solid ND defense. Stanford also committed 9 penalties for 66 yards, while Notre Dame only committed 1 penalty for 10 yards. What does this tell us? I'm not sure. It might just be a Luck of the Irish thing...
Ian Boyd of SB Nation thinks Notre Dame is good enough to be a playoff contender this season. It's a very extensive read, but helps in learning more about the Irish before they take on FSU in primetime on October 18th.
Up next: Notre Dame hosts UNC Saturday. The Fighting Irish are favored by 17, meaning Vegas sees this as a potential trap game w/ ND heading to Tallahassee to face FSU in 2 weeks.
9/29 Update
Notre Dame jumped out to a 21-3 lead vs. lowly Syracuse, & they never looked back, winning 31-15.
Everett Golson was very impressive, going 32-39 (at one point completing 25 straight!) for 362 yards & 4 TD's, although he also threw 2 INT's & had 2 fumbles. If the Irish want to upset FSU, they can't afford 4 TO's from their QB.
Up next: Notre Dame has a really stiff test, as they play host to Stanford. We should know much more about the Irish after this one.
9/15 Update:
Notre Dame only led Purdue by 3 at halftime, but they pulled away after intermission, winning 30-14. Everett Golson had 315 total yards & 3 TD's, but the Irish only gained 398 total yards as a team on 78 plays (5.1 yds/play). This has been an issue for the Golden Domers all year.
9/8 Update:
Notre Dame blanked Michigan, 31-0, but it wasn't the domination that the score implies, writes Bill Connelly.

Michigan outgained Notre Dame by nine yards in South Bend on Saturday night, 289-280. The Wolverines also lost by 31 points and were shut out for the first time in 30 years. That's what happens when ...

your average starting field position is 15 yards worse than your opponent's. (Notre Dame 37, Michigan 22.)
you go 0-for-4 in scoring opportunities (i.e. trips inside the opponent's 40), missing two field goals, losing a fumble, and turning the ball over on downs.
your opponent goes five-for-five in scoring opportunities, with four touchdowns and a field goal.
you throw interceptions from your 20, 39, and 46.

Michigan didn't generate many scoring chances and completely sabotaged the chances it had. The result, then, was rather predictable.
This game was a total rushing abomination, by the way. Michigan backsDe'Veon Smith and Derrick Greencombined for 55 yards in 20 carries, while Notre Dame's Cam McDaniel, Greg Bryant, and Tarean Folston combiend for 61 on 25. But Notre Dame had Everett Golson completing 68 percent of his passes with no turnovers, and Michigan had Devin Gardner throwing three picks, fumbling twice, and taking two sacks.

Update: Notre Dame has suspended four players indefinitely. Three are really key players. 
Here's the rundown of that via One Foot Down.
Paul Myerberg, of USA Today, on Notre Dame post-suspensions. As always, please do click on over and read the piece in its entirety.

In a nutshell: This won't be easy, but it's survivable. As players leave - for an indeterminate amount of time, remember - one key cog returns: Golson is going to change the entire makeup of the Irish's offense, leaving last year's meat-and-potatoes style in the dust in favor of a more frenetic, electric and ultimately productive attack. Even if Notre Dame moves forward without Daniels, it's easy to see this offense playing at a far higher level, keeping the Irish in line for a nine-win season even as the defense undergoes the transition into VanGorder's scheme. For now, it's the offense that must do the heavy lifting; the defense is going to need time.
I like what the offense can achieve in the running game and through the air. The backfield will be substantially more productive in a zone-read scheme, due in part to the three solid backs and Golson's ability to keep defenses honest. The Irish need to find a new go-to target, but there seems to be better overall talent - if unproven - than at any point during Kelly's tenure. My biggest concern, in fact, is the left side of the line; Stanley needs to anchor the blind side. On the plus side, Notre Dame has very nice depth across the board up front. If push comes to shove, this offense might be able to score enough points to hang around with the majority of teams on this schedule - perhaps all but Stanford and Florida State, which will put the clamps on this attack.
I don't completely buy the doom and gloom, basically. It stinks: Notre Dame is again playing from behind, personnel-wise, and the refrain is getting old. But there's enough talent on offense and enough speed along the front seven on defense to make this work, I'd say, even if there'll be speed bumps along the way. It's all about seven factors in particular: protecting Golson, finding a lead receiver, anchoring the left side, finding a pass rush, getting steady play in the middle, finding production at cornerback and locating consistency on special teams. This team will lose to Stanford and Florida State, struggle against USC and Arizona State, lose one game it shouldn't and end the year with eight or nine wins. Adding Russell and Daniels would have - and still could - given Notre Dame an extra win.

Original: I believe this is a top-20 level team, but its wicked schedule might not contain enough automatic wins to see the Irish finish in that range. Keep in mind that only a handful of teams have brought in a higher percentage of four- and five-star recruits over the last four years.
Here's Bill Connelly on Notre Dame's schedule. Please do read all of Connelly's excerpts at the link here.

But while Notre Dame's schedule isn't always as difficult as some think it is, this year's slate is meaty. Three projected top-10 opponents (two on the road), four more opponents projected between 11th and 35th, and perhaps most importantly, only one opponent projected worse than 67th. Consistency will be huge for the Irish in 2014, because a down week probably means a loss.

Notre Dame gets its quarterback back this year off suspension, and it should have one of, if not the best offensive line FSU faces all year.

Despite quite a bit of shuffling, despite youth, despite Tommy Rees' tendency to look downfield a lot, and despite a lack of explosiveness at the running back position, Notre Dame's offensive line thrived in 2013. The Irish were one of seven offenses to rank in the top 25 for both Adj. Line Yards and Adj. Sack Rate -- the others: Texas A&M, Northern Illinois, Miami, Florida State, Arkansas, and Duke -- and while those ratings reflect on more than just the linemen themselves, that's rather impressive.
The Irish do have to replace two longtime starters on the left side; Zack Martin was a four-year starter and Notre Dame's lone first-round pick in last week's draft, and Chris Watt was a three-year starter.
But one has to be enamored with the potential. Sophomores Ronnie Stanley and Steve Elmer are keepers, the experience level is still solid (six players with starting experience, 54 career starts), and there are plenty of high-ceiling newcomers who could end up on the two-deep: Hunter Bivin, John Monteus, Mike McGlinchey (a projected starter at the end of spring), Quenton Nelson, Alex Bars, etc. Martin and Watt were good, but it still seems the line will be a major strength.

ESPN gives Notre Dame a one (1) percent chance to make the playoff. This is the bottom line from a nice preview by ESPN.

Notre Dame had more players drafted this offseason than in any season since 1994, and even the absences of players who won't be playing on Sundays this season will be felt. The Fighting Irish lose one of the top passers in team history (Tommy Rees), two prolific touchdown-scorers in Troy Niklas and TJ Jones, the team's second-leading rusher last year (George Atkinson III), two of the top 10 sack leaders in team history (Stephon Tuitt and Prince Shembo) and the team's career leader in starts (Zack Martin). According to Notre Dame's athletic department, the Irish lose 100 percent of their passing yards, 72.8 percent of their receiving yards, 52 percent of their scoring, 73.4 percent of their total yards, 60.4 percent of their all-purpose yards and 76.2 percent of their sacks. They have stockpiled recruiting talent over the years, but this mountain of personnel losses could be too high for a championship team to climb.




More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




80


      Comments
    


⋆
Rec
 Recommend this Post

      2
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State football opponent preseason previews



Oct 29



Florida State football opponent preseason preview: Louisville



Oct 14

              80 comments
          

Florida State football opponent preview: Notre Dame



Aug 29

              142 comments
          

Florida State football opponent preview: Wake Forest


10 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







In This Article
Events


Fighting Irish @ Seminoles 10/18/2014




Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































