An all too early look at Florida State baseball - Tomahawk Nation 
An all too early look at Florida State baseball - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Baseball


An all too early look at Florida State baseball

    By Dustin Tackett


@dtackett_


    on Oct 21 2014, 3:42p

    

31











Bruce Thorson-US PRESSWIRE






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook






FSU's baseball team took another hit during the off-season, losing three of its starting infielders, two members of the weekend rotation, an all too important middle relief guy and likely the closer. 




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




31


      Comments
    




Florida State baseball closed out fall ball Monday afternoon inside Dick Howser Stadium, winning an exhibition game against the visiting Ontario Blue Jays, 18-1.
As the 'Noles closed the book for fall, they now look ahead to spring where they'll showcase a team full of new faces, and some very talented ones at that. Here's what I expect the Seminoles to look like come February.





 
ON THE MOUND
After losing two weekend starters in Brandon Leibrandt and Luke Weaver to the MLB Draft, the Seminoles are left trying to fill that void.
Luckily for the staff, redshirt junior right hander Mike Compton returns to the hill for FSU this year and will definitely be a focal point during any weekend series. Compton, after missing the entire 2013 season and returning from Tommy John Surgery, went 7-3 in 2014 with a 3.23 ERA.
Left handed senior Billy Strode also returns for the 'Noles, and I fully expect him to be a member of the weekend rotation as well -- at least to begin the year. Strode struggled during the early part of last season but began to pick it up towards the end, and hopefully he can carry that momentum into 2015.
Another senior left hander, Bryant Holtmann, will also make his return in 2015. While some may consider him a lock as one of FSU's starters, I believe they want Holtmann to fill the void left behind by Gage Smith, someone they can count on to come out of the bullpen a few times a week and give significant innings.
Boomer Bielgalski, a JUCO transfer from College of Central Florida, played high school ball at Chiles High right here in Tallahassee. Biegalski throws gas and holsters a nasty change to accompany his velocity. Striking out 116 batters in 110 innings during his freshman year, he's a big time get for the staff after losing two of their weekend starters, and I believe the youngster will be a Friday or Saturday guy for the 'Noles.





Deciding on a closer is pretty much the only position I can't put my finger on at this point. If you had to pick a guy that has the "stuff," but doesn't have it under control just yet, you'd have to go with Taylor Blatch. He has a live arm, but he has also struggled mightily with consistency, and that's an issue. In a closer, you need a guy that has two or three extremely effective pitches, along with quality velocity. I don't believe the staff has even begun to settle on anybody to play this role just yet.
Wildcard: Cobi Johnson, the freshman right hander. I haven't been able to see any of Johnson during the fall, so I can't throw him in the mix at this point, but I'm intrigued. Coming in as a big prospect, the staff has really kept a lid on this kid, and didn't being him to face a single batter during any of the scrimmages or exhibition game. I'll be interested to see what Johnson's role will be come spring.
BEHIND THE PLATE
This shouldn't be much of a mystery, as Florida State has one of the best -- if not the best -- defensive catcher in the country in Danny De La Calle. While De La Calle was a liability at times at the plate, he was nothing short of spectacular behind the plate, and Florida State will need that consistency with new faces on the mound. If the defensive stud can improve his batting average ever so slightly, he'll become the complete package and drastically increase his draft stock.
FIRST BASE
After losing John Nogowski to the draft, in steps Chris Marconcini, a graduate transfer from Duke. The 6-foot-4, 230 pound left handed hitter was a pleasant surprise for the Seminoles and will man first base, a position he knows quite well. In three season with the Blue Devils, Marconcini was a .275 career hitter including 43 doubles, 13 triples and 20 home runs. Having already hit a home run against the Seminoles in Dick Hoswer, Florida State's staff is counting on the lefty to take advantage of the wall in right field.
SECOND BASE
John Sansone, who started the last two season at second base for the Seminoles, will again man that post. Sansone drove in 39 RBI in 2014 and seems to be swinging the bat well. Showing just how far the new baseballs can fly against the Ontario Blue Jays Monday afternoon, the junior sent on into orbit over the left field fence and Ontario's bus, extending FSU's lead. Sansone has proven to be capable at second base, but he looks to tidy up his glove just a bit before the start of the 2015 season.
SHORTSTOP
After losing senior captain Justin Gonzalez, the 'Noles will now look to freshman Taylor Walls to take the reins. Walls is stud out of Crisp County High in Georgia, and finished up an extremely impressive fall on Monday. He's a switch hitter who has a confident and consistent bat. Pair that with wheels on the base paths, Walls is a comforting replacement for Gonzalez, even as a freshman. With Walls at short, the staff is able to leave Ben DeLuzio in center field to cover a lot of grass.
THIRD BASE
With the exit of Jose Brizuela, I believe Florida State will turn to sophomore Hank Truluck. Truluck started three games for FSU during his freshman season, mainly used as a utility guy that can play multiple positions. Truluck has a solid 6-foot-1, 190 pound frame and can sling it across the diamond. Truluck's consistent bat is what will likely win him the job, hitting .286 in only 21 at-bats last year.
LEFT FIELD
This should come as no surprise, but rather a blessing, if you're a Florida State fan. ACC Player of the Year DJ Stewart will be back for the Seminoles in left field, and more importantly at the plate. In 2014, Stewart led the ACC in batting average (.351), slugging percentage (.557) and on-base percentage (.472). One of college baseball's best hitters will return, and may be better protected this year (something I'll touch on in just a bit).
CENTER FIELD
The sophomore speedster Ben DeLuzio will cover the lawn in center for the Seminoles. DeLuzio is a threat at pretty much every angle of the game. In 2014, the youngster hit .281 including seven doubles, five triples and a home run, and also stole 16 bases. Selling out -- once leading to an injury on the road -- DeLuzio finished the year with a fielding percentage of .970. Whether it's his rhythm at the plate, aggressiveness on the base paths or his determination in the outfield, DeLuzio will be a crucial piece of the puzzle in 2015.
RIGHT FIELD
It seems that the outfield is full of familiar faces, and this one shouldn't be any different. Josh Delph will again be in right field for the 'Noles. Delph, FSU's latest lead off man, shared time in right field with Brett Knief in 2014, but he'll llkey be the sole member at that position in 2015. Delph's bat isn't exactly explosive, but he shows patience at the plate, drawing 34 walks in 2014. While patience can be a virtue, Delph also recorded 52 hits, 14 doubles and scored 34 runs as a lead off man.
DESIGNATED HITTER
Sophomore Gage West will likely DH for the 'Noles in 2015. West, who played high school ball at Lincoln here in Tallahassee, has a monster bat. Also a catcher, but a raw one at that, West can be vital at the plate for a Florida State team that needs heavy bats to help protect DJ Stewart in the lineup.
 
MY PROJECTED LINEUP FOR 2015
1.) Josh Delph RF
2.) Ben DeLuzio CF
3.) DJ Stewart LF
4.) Chris Marconcini 1B
5.) Gage West DH
6.) Taylor Walls SS
7.) John Sansone 2B
8.) Hank Truluck 3B
9.) Danny De La Calle C
This lineup does a number of things -- most importantly protecting DJ Stewart. With Marconcini and West behind Stewart, team's will be faced with the difficult decision of walking a guys ahead of two big bats. DeLuzio also provides consistency in front of Stewart, and provides speed at the top of the lineup. With DeLuzio near the top, FSU is able to have the speedy Walls towards the middle to get on base for Sansone and Truluck. Two through six would just be nasty if this is the look.
 
What do you guys think of the lineup? What changes would you make?



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




31


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































