FSU Shooting: Was Myron May a “Targeted Individual”? « Memory Hole

FSU Shooting: Was Myron May a “Targeted Individual”? « Memory Hole




Memory Hole
Reflections on Media and Politics | © Memory Hole Blog / James F. Tracy 2012-2015


Main menu

Skip to content


HomeAbout / DisclaimerCivility CodeContactFair Use Statement


Search for:



 


 





November 21, 2014 

			
			FSU Shooting: Was Myron May a “Targeted Individual”?
			
							
27 


Home • Tags: mind control, news media, police state, public opinion 


By James F. Tracy
Law enforcement authorities and mainstream US news media are framing the November 20 Florida State University shooting incident as yet another case of a lone nut who regrettably gained access to a firearm.

[Image Credit: GeorgiaNewsday.com]
Tallahassee Police Chief Michael DeLeo intimated May’s mental disorientation by noting to the press that the intellectually-gifted 31-year old attorney was in a “state of crisis.” “It’s clear Mr. May’s sense of being in place in our community,” DeLeo continued, “was not in a normal status” [sic]. For US journalists such statements, coupled with May’s unusual behavior leading up to the shooting are unambiguous: a sudden onset of mentally illness.
But was May in fact mentally ill? According to Derrick Robinson, President of Freedom From Covert Harassment and Surveillance (FFCHS), the United States has a long history of mind control research and techniques, dating at least to the CIA’s MKULTRA and similar programs begun in the early 1950s.
“Basically their aim [has been] to control a human being without the person being aware of their efforts.” An individual can thus be directed to commit any number of acts, including murder and political assassination. “They use drugs, they use electroshock, they use hypnosis, and ultimately electromagnetic energy. That seemed to be what paid off the most for them.”[2] Robinson, a former US military veteran, also claims to be a victim of such practices.

May’s personal characteristics and behavior indeed fit the profile of many targeted individuals. He was single, changed his occupational status and living arrangements frequently over a short period leading up to the November 20 event (perhaps to avoid continued harassment), and was even in contact with FFCHS members for support as he protested what he perceived as electronic surveillance and harassment on social media.
On Sept. 7, May called police in Las Cruces, New Mexico, to report that someone had installed a camera in his apartment. As the Miami Herald reports, “He told police he could hear voices coming through the walls, and the voices were talking about him. One evening, for instance, he heard the voices commenting on his actions as he applied lotion after a bubble bath.”[3] According to Las Cruces broadcast journalist Laura Thoren, when May “filed the report police told him to ‘switch apartments.'” Aaron Alexis made similar complaints to police in the weeks leading up to his September 16, 2013 assault on the Navy Yard military base.
In early October May abruptly resigned as an assistant district attorney in New Mexico. Shortly thereafter his ex-girlfriend informed Las Cruces police that May was showing symptoms of a “severe mental disorder” for which he had been hospitalized weeks earlier.
May also had difficulty sleeping, sometimes for four or five nights in a row, and recently without explanation traveled from New Mexico to Colorado.[4]
Myron May suggested that he was a victim of such practices just five days before he was shot and killed by FSU police. “IS OUR GOVERNMENT VIOLATING ORDINARY CITIZENS’ RIGHTS?” May posted on Facebook alongside a video on mind control. “UNFORTUNATELY THE ANSWER IS YES!”[5]
Also, about one week ago May contacted a Renee Pittman Mitchell, who publicly regards herself as a “targeted individual” and has a website devoted to the topic. “‘He told me he just didn’t want to go on living like this,'” Mitchell told NBC News. “May continued to try to contact her and left three voicemails between 9:19 p.m. and 9:42 p.m. ET on Wednesday, November 20.
“‘I am currently being cooked in my chair. I devised a scheme where I was going to expose this once and for all and I really need you,'” he said in one of the messages, which was provided to NBC News and authenticated by a relative as May’s voice. ‘I do not want to die in vain.'”[6]
In an email he sent at 11:19 p.m., he wrote: “I’ve been getting hit with the direct energy weapon in my chest all evening. It hurts really bad right now.” Police say he opened fire on campus about an hour later.
According to Robinson, the prevailing demographic of electronic harassment/surveillance victims are single woman between the ages of 40 and 50 years old, although single men are also desirable targets. “They tend to choose individuals that are alone and unattached to family and friends,” Robinson observes. “They tend to want someone that they can isolate, and if they can get someone by themselves they can really bring the full bearing of their program upon them.”[7]
[Image Credit: KRGE.com]
Through the corporate media lens the fact that many thousands of individuals claim to be routinely subjected to such techniques is far outweighed by the more easily apprehended notion of a mentally unhinged lone gunman running amok. To an American public that remains largely ignorant of electronic harassment and surveillance and oblivious to the US intelligence community’s long history of mind control experimentation such assertions would appear baseless.
Even if journalists and the broader public were inclined toward historical awareness in this regard the idea that the US government and/or government contractors would wield such techniques to harass and manipulate American citizens seems particularly outlandish.
As with the Sandy Hook massacre and the rash of mass shootings since, the mental illness angle to this story will ultimately carry the day, providing further momentum to the gun control lobby and those seeking to make compulsory psychiatric evaluations and psychotropic drugs a routine component of public health.[8]
Notes
[1] John Kennedy, “Rampage Leaves Police Searching for Answers,” Palm Beach Post, November 21, 2014.
[2] James F. Tracy, “Electronic Criminality and Mind Control (Interview with Derrick Robinson)” Memoryholeblog.com, October 17, 2014.
[3] Lisa Gartner, Mary Ellen Klas, et al., “FSU Shooter’s Life Unravels, Ends in Violent Tragedy,” Miami Herald, November 2o, 2014.
[4] Ibid.
[5] Kennedy, “Rampage Leaves Police Searching for Answers.”
[6] “FSU Shooter Myron May Left Message: ‘I Do Not Want to Die in Vain,'” NBC News, November 21, 2014.
[7] Tracy, “Electronic Criminality and Mind Control.”
[8] Now is the Time: The President’s Plan to Protect Our Children and our Communities by Reducing Gun Violence (PDF), January 16, 2013, Washington DC; U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, “HHS Announces $99 Million in New Grants to Improve Mental Health Services for Young People,” September 22, 2014, Washington DC; U.S. Department of Education, “U.S. Department of Education Invests More Than $70 Million to Improve School Climate and Keep Students Safe,” September 23, 2014.
Republished at GlobalResearch.ca and ActivistPost.


About these ads




ShareFacebookTwitterGooglePrintEmailMoreRedditPinterestTumblrStumbleUponPocketLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 




Post navigation
 Propagandizing Falsehoods Old and New
Rogue Academics, Intrepid Truthers, and the Freedom to Ask Anything 



			27 comments		





 THX1138 says: 


					November 30, 2014 at 7:54 am					



Not somebody, YOU have to stop them.


Reply 






 When In Doubt, Revolt says: 


					November 24, 2014 at 4:37 pm					



Mirabile dictu…the “disturbed, mentally ill, troubled, dangerously psychotic” among us communicate more lucidly than those who are tasked to investigate and prosecute the crimes the alleged perps commit. Think State Medical Examiner Dr. H. Wayne Carver as an example.
Do yourself a favor. Until further notice, consider everything that comes out of government at all levels totally untrustworthy misinformation. You will obviously miss some information that is accurate but the volume and significance of what you miss pales in comparison to the corruption, lies and dissembling churned out by the true psychotics among us: the elite.


Reply 






 Todd Giffen says: 


					November 24, 2014 at 1:08 am					



Don’t chase the white rabbit around, get the real evidence and dirt: http://www.obamasweapon.com/
The system for attacking us is global, 25-HAARP type arrays, hundreds of satellites, interferometry – energy penetrates buildings, ground, images us remotely, alters us remotely, it’s a surveillance system, communication system, and weapon all in one. It’s the ultimate in weapons, because no one will stop the police/military/state/local/federal government from using it, just like warrantless wiretapping.
Brain tapping is a classified wiretapping method, your brains/thoughts can be decoded from an existing system that’s in place above us all, hidden away in Special Access Programs, Exceptionally Controlled Information Programs, and Very Restricted Knowledge programs.
They don’t care about any of our rights, someone has to stop them..
-Todd Giffen, target since 2007/2008
503-967-5202
case@oregonstatehospital.net


Reply 






 Patrick says: 


					November 22, 2014 at 12:04 pm					



” To an American public that remains largely ignorant of electronic harassment and surveillance and oblivious to the US intelligence community’s long history of mind control experimentation such assertions would appear baseless.”
Right.  That’s the core of the problem with responding to reality.  If a tree falls in the forest, does it make a sound?  If no one is listening because the press is silent, the average person thinks any pointing out of what’s really going on is crazy talk.  The MSM continue to rule the Public Mind.


Reply 






 ReadWrite says: 


					November 22, 2014 at 11:43 am					



Associated Press reports a remarkable ‘coinkidink':
“University police participated in active shooter training less than two weeks before the attack, including a scenario with a shooter at the library. “It’s good to know we look at those opportunities where someone may try to harm our students,” university Police Chief David Perry.”
Officials seeking clues about life of FSU gunman
http://www.heraldtribune.com/article/20141122/ARCHIVES/411221042/-1/todayspaper


Reply 






 Barbara Henninger says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 11:06 pm					



Some reports that Tamerlan Tsarnaev heard voices in his head.


Reply 






 Peter McPumpkin (@khunopie) says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 9:44 pm					



The student who took a lucky bullet to the books, Jason Derfuss, on Twitter, calls himself – ‘Writer/Director/Producer/Editor/Musician/Actor. Vice President of Multi-frame Media.’
His project, listed as being finished in 2015, is called ‘Out of Darkness’, recalling the Sandy Hoax “Darkness and Light” theme.
https://twitter.com/JasonDerfuss


Reply 



Pingback: ABC News Blocks me for Pointing out the Obvious about FSU Shooter | The Freethought Police





 Lou Saboter says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 8:27 pm					



Also, recall that Aaron Alexis made the same claims. http://nation.time.com/2013/09/26/navy-yard-shooter-thought-he-was-under-government-mind-control/


Reply 






 James says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 9:08 pm					



Referenced in the piece, although not elaborated on.


Reply 






 Lou Saboter says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 9:17 pm					



Miriam Carey was another peculiar case. All three were black, if that means anything.


Reply 








 dinophile says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 9:16 pm					



So did Jared Loughner.


Reply 








 Precinct Captain Lou Saboter says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 8:24 pm					



Interestingly, ABC did a piece on mind control in 1979. Yet now, in their reporting, treat the subject as if it is indicative of mental illness to even mention the possibility.


Reply 






 Sandy says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 6:46 pm					



Until they added the “Lone Wolf” provision to FISA, (I believe it was in 2009,) all electronic surveillance required a foreign terrorist nexus.  The NSA can’t compel the phone companies, Google, or Yahoo, et c, to turn over mass data on US citizens without that provision. 
My gut feeling is that “Lone Wolf” ops will continue in order to validate the continuance of what was originally planned to be a temporary act.


Reply 



Pingback: Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman | Here Comes The Sun





 Dublinsmick says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 2:13 pm					



Reblogged
http://dublinsmick.wordpress.com/2014/11/21/update-on-myron-may-the-florida-state-university-gunman/


Reply 






 fishandroaches says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 1:25 pm					



here is the only witness that actually claims to have seen anything.  real believable! ha ha.
http://www.tallahassee.com/videos/news/local/fsu-news/2014/11/20/19321921/


Reply 






 musings says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 3:17 pm					



And yet, this person injects “It was humbling” after another witness (his friend) goes through his backpack and finds the bullet. So many steps in the story, so much excess baggage, makes me think of a law school hypothetical where they are putting together a sequence of events to make a point of some kind. Now of course, you have him, the ear and eye witness, then you have his friend who is the forensic evidence finder. What’s the problem? Didn’t he notice a hole in his backpack? And the bullet just conveniently lodged there without passing through? And somehow he did not notice the impact until his friend told him (like the gunshot wound you get and don’t know you’re shot). I’d like to know when the friend started going through his backpack. Is he supposed to be in such a state of shock he could not do it himself? 
Here’s the thing about the unmarried DA – another interesting thing. He’s moving around all the time, and does it in response to increasing “madness”. But that’s the same profile you might have of an FBI agent working out this “lone wolf” scenario they are so worried about in the realm of terror-ology. Yes, he does seem like a hopeless paranoid trapped in his own hall of infinite mirrors, or perhaps he is a walking hypothetical too.


Reply 






 Rich says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 3:19 pm					



HA HA!  He found the bullet in the bottom of his backpack!  I wonder if it was a 6.5 mm Carcanno in pristine condition?  Back and to the left, back and to the left.


Reply 






 lophatt says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 11:03 pm					



Does anyone else find it strange that they would interview this “survivor” with the interviewer off camera?  I’ve seen examples where the interviewer set the stage and then switched to the interviewee, but not just standing there filming him while asking questions off camera. 
This reminds me of some of the very early vignettes that were injected into the 9-11 Movie.  They were shown a time or two and then…gone.


Reply 








 fishandroaches says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 1:02 pm					



what collegiate library in florida open all night doesn’t have video surveillance?
what DA (who carries a badge in his wallet) would call a beat cop if he found a camera installed in his apartment?  I think he would get a detective and someone from the crime lab not call 911 and wait for some 70 iq nobody to show up.


Reply 






 Sandy says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 12:07 pm					



Unless the news reporter misspoke, it was reported that there were several hundred students in the library at 12:30 AM when the shooting occurred.  That seems very odd.  My big ten university library closed at 11:00pm, but had an all night reading room, which I frequented during finals week, and was only used by a dozen or fewer students.


Reply 






 James says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 2:43 pm					



The university library at FAU is in fact open until 2AM on weekdays thru Thursday, but even at midday the building has nothing close to 200 or more students occupying it. 
One news report stated that students were studying for midterms. This would only make sense if FSU were on a quarter system. It is not, and final exams are close to three weeks away.
http://registrar.fsu.edu/dir_class/fall/acad_cal.htm


Reply 






 elfmom55 says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 3:38 pm					



This Myron May is a Masonic/Boule crisis actor player.  “Teamwakeemup” on YT has a video showing him giving the baphomet hand sign.


Reply 






 musings says: 


					November 21, 2014 at 5:14 pm					



It’s like the claims of huge numbers of people at the tail end of the Boston Marathon Bombing, already late in the afternoon with nothing much to see of it, that alerted me to something amiss, about two hours after the winners had passed over the finish line. Of course it was an easy matter to divert the stragglers onto another street – you’d probably want to do that so the businesses could resume their normal activities. It appears that all the films of the event may have been staged elsewhere – almost undoubtedly in my mind because the area in which it appeared to take place was bigger than the real setting ( a bit of a shock to me when I walked by that restaurant where the little boy was supposed to have had his leg blown off – I realized this was just little hole-in-the-wall place and not the glamorous eatery portrayed).


Reply 








 mridion says: 


					November 24, 2014 at 3:24 pm					



As far as his claims to being a victim of electronic harassment here is how this is achieved.
They can use signals going to the voicebox that occur when you think but dont speak to marry the words to the brain wave patterns.
NASA Develops System To Computerize Silent, “Subvocal Speech”
http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2004/03/040318072412.htm
Brain decoder can eavesdrop on your inner voice
http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg22429934.000-brain-decoder-can-eavesdrop-on-your-inner-voice.html
To get the implants tiny they can use high frequency waves to power them
http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/182686-here-come-the-rice-grain-sized-brain-implants-stanford-discovers-way-of-beaming-power-to-microimplants-deep-inside-your-body
Verified case in courts of “Electronic Harassment” of Targeted Individual James Walbert with MRI scans of implants in neck and head



Reply 






 fsupeep says: 


					December 4, 2014 at 11:36 am					



Strozier Library at FSU is open 24/7. There Is Always Hundes Of People IN There At ALL yimes. We have finals next week.


Reply 






Comments Subject to Moderation Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 







Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to receive notifications of new posts by email.







 


We Need to Talk About Sand Hook

Take the Poll 



Take Our Poll
 RSS - Posts
Archives 
Select Month
 January 2015  (10)
 December 2014  (17)
 November 2014  (14)
 October 2014  (16)
 September 2014  (18)
 August 2014  (12)
 July 2014  (16)
 June 2014  (17)
 May 2014  (13)
 April 2014  (8)
 March 2014  (13)
 February 2014  (12)
 January 2014  (11)
 December 2013  (12)
 November 2013  (10)
 October 2013  (14)
 September 2013  (13)
 August 2013  (9)
 July 2013  (10)
 June 2013  (9)
 May 2013  (12)
 April 2013  (13)
 March 2013  (8)
 February 2013  (9)
 January 2013  (15)
 December 2012  (5)
 November 2012  (3)
 October 2012  (3)
 September 2012  (2)
 August 2012  (5)
 July 2012  (4)
 June 2012  (3)
 May 2012  (4)
 April 2012  (4)
 March 2012  (4)

 

Recent Comments 
dachsielady on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…patrickchatsamiably on $Trillion Sandy Hook Lawsuit M…Anne B. on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…Anne B. on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…dachsielady on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…Anne B. on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…Des10emaye on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…Anne B. on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…lophatt on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…lophatt on Lanza Home Slated for Dem… 
 
 


Memory Hole Research Fund 
 

 

My Tweets No Comment
Musical Interlude





 Real Politik » podcastInterview 33: Colin A. Ross MD January 17, 2015Interview 32: Peter Klein January 12, 2015Interview 31: William Shanley and Jim Fetzer December 30, 2014Interview 30: Adnan Zuberi December 25, 2014 



 "Half the truth is often a great lie."-Benjamin Franklin
 "In the twentieth century power wears the mask of tragedy."-Albert Camus
 "Lack of transparency is a huge political advantage."-Prof. Jonathan Gruber

Today’s Top Posts
















Sandy Hook Massacre Timeline Link
MHB Sandy Hook Research & Analysis

 210+ Days

Since JT Challenged AC to Revisit Newtown
Boston Marathon Bombing Timeline Link to Timeline 
 AP WorldAmid mourning, a new generation enters line to Saudi throneAP PHOTO: Mom's appeal to save Japanese hostagePrayers said for Japanese hostages held by Islamic militants70 years after Auschwitz liberation, a survivor remembersRadiation Network
 Zero HedgeDeutsche Bank's Most Cynical Take On Draghi's QE Yet: Buy European Stocks Even Though QE Will "Prevent Improvements" January 23, 2015WTI Hits $45 Handle After Treasury Secretary Lew Says "Doesn't Expect US Crude Production To Decline" January 23, 2015EURO continues downward trend, OIL maintains rangebound trading January 23, 2015
 Jon Rappoport’s BlogPsychiatric police state: notes from the underground January 23, 2015The artist on trial January 21, 2015Exit From The Matrix: the liberated mind January 20, 2015 Corbett ReportInterview 994 – New World Next Week with James Evan PilatoInterview 993 – Sibel Edmonds on Gladio B and the Paris ShootingPhilip Dru – FLNWO #23
 PublicIntelligence.netEU Parliament Study on Mass Surveillance January 23, 2015DHS NCCIC Report on Assessing Risks of Your Digital Footprint January 20, 2015DoJ Update to Policy Regarding Questioning, Arresting, or Charging Members of the News Media January 19, 2015 





Disclaimer The above articles and comments are the personal opinions of the author / comment poster. Read full disclaimer here.
Foundation-Funded Alternative 
 The Nation BlogJanuary 23, 1973: Nixon Announces Peace Agreement to End the Vietnam WarDon’t Be Fooled: Republicans Are Still as Extreme on Abortion as EverHaiti’s Political EarthquakeA Fine Balance MoJo BlogMississippi Wouldn't Allow This Teacher to Show Kids How to Use a Condom. His Simple Solution Is Brilliant.Terrifying Video Shows Black Man "With His Hands Raised" Shot To Death By New Jersey CopWatch Molly Redden on the GOP Women Protesting the 20-Week Abortion BanFederal Prosecutors Set to Clear Ferguson Cop Who Shot Michael Brown Democracy Now!In Victory for Gov't Whistleblowers, Supreme Court Sides with Fired TSA Air Marshal Who Spoke OutBarrett Brown Sentenced to Five Years in Jail After Reporting on Hacked Private Intelligence Firms"A Systemic Failure": New Calls for Reform as Feds Rule Out Civil Rights Charges for Darren WilsonRemembering Saudi's King Abdullah: "He Was Not a Benevolent Dictator, He Was a Dictator" Truth OutHaitians Worry World Bank-Assisted Mining Law Could Result in "Looting"The 2015 State of the Union Address: A Major OmissionDo the United States' Hungry Children Matter?Is John Boehner a Traitor?Blog Stats 
2,778,480 hits

 

 Fair Use Statement 
 News Room
Independent Alternative 
 Global ResearchJournalist Barrett Brown’s Day of Reckoning. Revealed the Machinations of the US National Security Apparatus January 23, 2015NATO Commander Lied Claiming “Russian Invasion of Ukraine” January 23, 2015The Vaccination Quandary: Foiling Dr. Tenpenny’s Trip to Australia January 23, 2015GMO-Free Russia? Government Approves Bill that Would Ban GMO Cultivation, Breeding and Imports January 23, 2015 IntellihubState of Texas forcing epileptic man to suffer, facing jail time for trying to self-medicateSuddenly 2015 feels a whole lot like the delusional financial euphoria we saw before the dot-com crash‘Doomsday clock’ ticks forward: Climate change, nuclear weapons push humanity closer towards global catastropheContagion: The MMR vaccine will not stop the measles outbreak from spreading Washington’s BlogObama Has Sentenced Whistleblowers to 25 Times the Jail Time of All Prior U.S. Presidents COMBINEDCNN Serves US Gov Policy, Casts Deceased Saudi Tyrant in Positive LightDo We Want Solutions, Or Just What’s Easy?Top Counter-Terrorism Agency: Citizens Should Be Armed To Stop Terror Attacks Activist PostAssuming We're Not All Incinerated: Eurasian Power in a Post-Western WorldVICTORY: Citizens Stand up to Agenda 21 in Alaska This Is The Beginning Of The End For The Euro Journalist Barrett Brown Sentenced to 63 Months in Prison; Read his Speech Here 

 
Corporate Media 
 USA TodaySaudi King Abdullah dead at 902 more bodies found in ruins of Maryland mansionSenators press Holder on police radar that sees inside homesPrivate school rejects children because parents are gay NBC NewsBracketology: GOP Contenders Face Off This WeekendWhat Saudi Succession Means for Oil PricesNew King, Old Ways: Saudi Monarch Vows 'Straight Path'Saudi Arabia's Billionaire King to Be Buried in Unmarked Grave CBS News"Countdown has begun" for Japanese hostagesBill Rhoden on Patriots scandal: "The bad guys never really get punished"Journeys to the mountaintopEye Opener: Patriots try to deflate allegations of cheating ABC NewsWhat 'American Sniper' Got Right and WrongInside the Frat Party that Caused $75,000 of Damage 'Married at First Sight': One Year LaterDeadline for ISIS Ransom Passes, but Fate of Captives Unknown New York PostPope to families: Put aside iPhones and talkTown of polygamist leader who sexually assaulted girls dividedLeftists take cheap shots at ‘American Sniper’s real-life heroSaudi Arabia’s King Abdullah dead at 90 


Boutique Corporate Media 
 New York TimesLatest News: ISIS Deadline, Yemen, Obama to IndiaIn Speaker Silver’s Backyard, Views of the Case Against Him Are SplitDealBook: European Central Bank Bets Big on Curing the EconomyKing Abdullah, a Shrewd Force Who Reshaped Saudi Arabia, Dies at 90 NPRTSA Agents Discovered 2,212 Firearms At Airport Checkpoints In 2014Senate Says Climate Change Real, But Not Really Our FaultYemeni Rebels Call For Mass Rallies After President Steps DownPop Culture Happy Hour: 'Broad City' And Required Reading WSJ World NewsSaudi King Abdullah DiesYemen's Shiite Rebels Call Mass RalliesLebanese Troops Clash With MilitantsNetanyahu Sets Address to U.S. Congress FT US HomeSaudi throne in line for historic shiftEuro tumbles most in 3 years after ECB moveUPS miscues again during ChristmasAviation and power units lift GE earnings New Yorker News DeskAmerica’s Family-Leave DisgraceDenial and Deflategate: A Patriots Fan’s Stages of GriefThe Political Scene: Obama’s LegacyAll You Ever (or Never) Wanted to Know About Quantitative Easing 
National Association for
Children and Safe Technology
 


Blog at WordPress.com.
			 | 
The Newsy Theme. Design by Themify.		























































Follow

Follow “Memory Hole”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 8,331 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






%d bloggers like this:





 




