Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman | Here Comes The Sun


Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman | Here Comes The Sun







Here Comes The Sun


Just another WordPress.com site





Skip to content
HomeAbout







← Florida State University Shocked By Three Students Wounded By Gunman In Strozier Library
FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter →


Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman

Posted on November 21, 2014 by Dublinsmick  

FSU Shooting: Was Myron May a “Targeted Individual”?
Reblogged
http://memoryholeblog.com/2014/11/21/fsu-shooting-was-myron-may-a-targeted-individual/comment-page-1/#comment-81269
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Professor Tracey is not stranger to media criticism and one of the few intellectuals who speak about key issues affecting Americans with great risk to his career and family I might add.
Ph.D James Tracey of Florida Atlantic University Communications Professor.
 
By James F. Tracy
Law enforcement authorities and mainstream US news media are framing the November 20 Florida State University shooting incident as yet another case of a lone nut who regrettably gained access to a firearm.
[Image Credit: GeorgiaNewsday.com]
FSU Police Chief Michael DeLeo intimated May’s mental disorientation by noting to the press that the intellectually-gifted 31-year old attorney was in a “state of crisis.” “It’s clear Mr. May’s sense of being in place in our community,” DeLeo continued, “was not in a normal status” [sic]. For US journalists such statements, coupled with May’s unusual behavior leading up to the shooting are unambiguous: a sudden onset of mentally illness.
But was May in fact mentally ill? According to Derrick Robinson, President of Freedom From Covert Harassment and Surveillance (FFCHS), the United States has a long history of mind control research and techniques, dating at least to the CIA’s MKULTRA and similar programs begun in the early 1950s.
“Basically their aim [has been] to control a human being without the person being aware of their efforts.” An individual can thus be directed to commit any number of acts, including murder and political assassination. “They use drugs, they use electroshock, they use hypnosis, and ultimately electromagnetic energy. That seemed to be what paid off the most for them.”[2] Robinson, an African American and US military veteran, also claims to be a victim of such practices.

May’s personal characteristics and behavior indeed fit the profile of a “targeted individual.” He was single, African American, changed his occupational status and living arrangements frequently over a short period leading up to the November 20 event (perhaps to avoid continued harassment), and was even in contact with FFCHS members for support as he protested what he perceived electronic surveillance and harassment on social media.
On Sept. 7, May called police in Las Cruces, New Mexico, to report that someone had installed a camera in his apartment. As the Miami Herald reports, “He told police he could hear voices coming through the walls, and the voices were talking about him. One evening, for instance, he heard the voices commenting on his actions as he applied lotion after a bubble bath.”[3] According to Las Cruces broadcast journalist Laura Thoren, when May “filed the report police told him to ‘switch apartments.’” Aaron Alexis made similar complaints to police in the weeks leading up to his September 16, 2013 assault on the Navy Yard military base.
In early October May abruptly resigned as an assistant district attorney in New Mexico. Shortly thereafter his ex-girlfriend informed Las Cruces police that May was showing symptoms of a “severe mental disorder” for which he had been hospitalized weeks earlier.
May also had difficulty sleeping, sometimes for four or five nights in a row, and recently without explanation traveled from New Mexico to Colorado.[4]
Finally, Myron May suggested that he was a victim of such practices just five days before he was shot and killed by FSU police. “IS OUR GOVERNMENT VIOLATING ORDINARY CITIZENS’ RIGHTS?” May posted on Facebook alongside a video on mind control. “UNFORTUNATELY THE ANSWER IS YES!”[5]
According to Robinson, the prevailing demographic of an electronic harassment/surveillance victim is a single woman between the ages of 40 and 50 years old, although single men are also desirable targets. “They tend to choose individuals that are alone and unattached to family and friends,” Robinson observes. “They tend to want someone that they can isolate, and if they can get someone by themselves they can really bring the full bearing of their program upon them.”[6]
Through the corporate media lens the fact that many thousands of individuals claim to be routinely subjected to such techniques is far outweighed by the more easily apprehended notion of a mentally unhinged lone gunman running amok. To an American public that remains largely ignorant of electronic harassment and surveillance and oblivious to the US intelligence community’s long history of mind control experimentation such assertions would appear baseless.
Even if journalists and the broader public were inclined toward historical awareness in this regard the idea that the US government and/or government contractors would wield such techniques to harass and manipulate American citizens seems particularly outlandish.
As with the Sandy Hook massacre and the rash of mass shootings since, the mental illness angle to this story will ultimately carry the day, providing further momentum to the gun control lobby and those seeking to make compulsory psychiatric evaluations and psychotropic drugs a routine component of public health.[7]
Notes
[1] John Kennedy, “Rampage Leaves Police Searching for Answers,” Palm Beach Post, November 21, 2014.
[2] James F. Tracy, “Electronic Criminality and Mind Control (Interview with Derrick Robinson)” Memoryholeblog.com, October 17, 2014.
[3] Lisa Gartner, Mary Ellen Klas, et al., “FSU Shooter’s Life Unravels, Ends in Violent Tragedy,” Miami Herald, November 2o, 2014.
[4] Ibid.
[5] Kennedy, “Rampage Leaves Police Searching for Answers.”
[6] Tracy, “Electronic Criminality and Mind Control.”
[7] Now is the Time: The President’s Plan to Protect Our Children and our Communities by Reducing Gun Violence (PDF), January 16, 2013, Washington DC; U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, “HHS Announces $99 Million in New Grants to Improve Mental Health Services for Young People,” September 22, 2014, Washington DC; U.S. Department of Education, “U.S. Department of Education Invests More Than $70 Million to Improve School Climate and Keep Students Safe,” September 23, 2014.
http://www.tallahassee.com/videos/news/local/fsu-news/2014/11/20/19321921/
______________________________________________________________
Ph.D James Tracey of Florida Atlantic University Communications Professor.
Other issues addressed by Professor Tracey
It would seem so from the broadcast journalist’s January 11 performance on his CNN program. Once corporate news media have told us what “reality” is, no further questioning is allowed, especially from credentialed individuals such as “tenured professors.” One has to ask, “Is this journalism? Or the frustrated defense of a news presenter and an increasingly uncertain storyline?”
Or, “Does Anderson Cooper Want James Tracy and/or His Family Members Harmed?”
http://memoryholeblog.com/2013/01/12/anderson-coopers-anti-conspiracy-tirade/
Other controversial issues discussed by professor Tracy include Sandy Hook.
http://memoryholeblog.com/2013/12/14/the-sandy-hook-school-massacre-a-compendium-of-research-and-analysis/
Older post concerning Florida State I posted yesterday.
https://dublinsmick.wordpress.com/2014/11/20/florida-state-university-shocked-by-three-students-wounded-by-gunman-in-strozier-library/
Not the first time tragedy has struck FSU. Ted Bundy murdered some sorority girls there under very suspicious circumstances.
Mass murderer Ted Bundy who supposedly was executed in Florida is said to be possibly the son of McGeorge Bundy an American diplomat whose brother was a CIA agent. Bundy The Mass Murderer
McGeorge Bundy was the National Security Supervisor for Kennedy and Johnson. His older brother was a CIA agent. All of McGeorge’s children are not listed on Wiki. The company loves inside jokes and probably felt there was no need to change Ted’s name as Americans are usually oblivious to what is going on around them. To wrap this up quickly, Miles Mathis shows some pretty strong circumstantial evidence that Ted Bundy is the missing fifth son of McGeorge Bundy. You can look at pics on his site and see the resemblance. I am trying to shorten this as much as possible so readers may follow the magic web.
It is interesting that Fritz Springmeier in his “Bloodlines of the Illuminati” identifies the Bundy family as one of the original 13 Illuminati bloodlines. He goes on to lists a who’s who of various Bundys who have occupied positions of authority in commerce and industry and particularly the power structure of the US government and intelligence agencies. He even adduces evidence of the notorious serial rapist and murderer Ted Bundy who actually joined the Church of the Latter Day Saints in 1975 and was posthumously baptized in an “endowment” ceremony on May 2008 in the Jordan River Temple in South Jordan, a suburb 16 mile south of Salt Lake City Utah in an eldritch ritual the likes of which could only be encountered in the halls of Mormon. In the following linked video many similar questions are raised as to the role the Illuminati are playing in this theater of the absurd in Nevada which has all the makings of a classic intelligence agency psychological operation designed to effect a hidden agenda.
 
Breaking News


Related
 

												This entry was posted in Uncategorized and tagged Myron May The Florida State University Gunman, Ted Bundy who killed Florida State Coeds, Was FSU shooter Myron May a targeted individual. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Florida State University Shocked By Three Students Wounded By Gunman In Strozier Library
FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter →


4 Responses to Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman




 JCH says: 

				November 21, 2014 at 5:39 PM 
All too true, unfortunately. On the one hand you have MKULTRA. On the other, you have an ignorant public believing their victims are “simply” insane and not mind-controlled. Then you have the poor guy stuck in the middle who would love nothing more than a chance to live a normal, free life. Who are the real criminals here?


Reply 





 Dublinsmick says: 

				November 22, 2014 at 2:20 AM 
JHC it is discouraging at times isn’t it. It honestly seems no matter what information you put out there, the Anerican public will not grasp it.


Reply 





 JCH says: 

				November 22, 2014 at 11:32 AM 
I’ve gotten so caught up in the negativity of the world that I’m about to drive myself crazy! Jesus said “I have come that they might have life and have it more abundantly”. When I get my focus off my mission and onto evil people, I get depressed. God never meant for His kids to live that way. The news is full of lies and negativity, because it sells, it’s popular, gets ratings. All I really need to know is that every time they (politicians and “elites”) open their mouths, it’s a guaranteed lie, and it’s NOT for our good, only their twisted egoes and their temporary benefit. God is going to punish evil, that is a guarantee. Their money and their power isn’t going to get them diddly squat when they stand before Him. They need the truth, and they need to be warned of the judgment that is coming. When I have done that, I’m not reponsible for where they end up – they are! Free will can be a dangerous thing. The world as a whole is under satanic deception. Lies, deceit and stealth is the only way evil can win, because if people really knew the truth, they would drag these criminals out and hang them in the public square of every city. But God is a God of grace and patience, not willing that ANY should perish. Because His judgment is slow in coming (His patience), people believe it will never come, but it is coming and already here. Sometimes God gives people the leaders they deserve and want – and that is a form of judgment. That said, we have to go to God His way. Strange thing, all roads DO lead to God, but only one leads to heaven. God says the only way is through Jesus Christ. Those of us who have found Him are not getting there through our own efforts, nothing good about us, except that we have found the “narrow way” that leads to life and followed it. The Apostle Paul started out as a murderer of Christians, but when God knocked him flat on the Damascus road, he became the greatest preacher the world has ever known. My Christmas wish is for peace, but peace is not possible in this satanically-controlled world. Peace comes individually when we get right with the Prince of Peace. Until Jesus returns, this planet is a spiritual battlefield. The battle is going to be played out in wars and isolated acts of aggression, such as this shooting. The source might be mind control, but the ultimate source is satan, who comes for no other reason than to steal, kill and destroy.


Reply 







 Dublinsmick says: 

				November 23, 2014 at 4:39 PM 
Yeah things don’t look good all over.


Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 







View My Stats 
View My
Stats
Many counter resets have erased views, so who knows 
468,141  View My Stats

Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com 
DUBLINMICK’S BREAKING NEWS: (Separate Site)  Updated Daily By My Staff And Think Tank
This blog will make more sense to you if you read this first-The Naked Ape
Aadivaahan: A man who maintains his center much better than I-Cathartes Aura-The battle is within
The Secret of Secrets: Tunnels in Bucegi Mountains — Displaying our true history discovered in 2003-True Origin Of Life On Earth
1. Most popular post by far, Monkey Blood, RH Negative Blood Types, Presidents And Royalty (60, 000 hits) 9-29-14
Who Are The Nefilim, Where Did They Go, Will They Return?-SECOND MOST POPULAR POST (15,000 hits)
Helter Skelter
Ebola-Health Impact News
US bioweapons lab with links to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation at core of Ebola epidemic
Vanga Predicts Russia To Rule The World
Ebola Tracking
Global Incident Map
In The Know 7
The all seeing eye is inside your head
Hercolubus The Greatest Mystery Of The Modern Era
Tsar Nicholas’ 4 Daughters reportedly raped
The Black Swan Event
Why Do Popes Wear A Yarmulke
A Tornado Struck The Plutonium Plant In Kentucky-Nothing To See Here
4. Most popular posts,  Hitler Was A Rothschild And So Was His Daughter Angela
The Mayan Elders
In Search Of Black Assassins
65 Million Year Old Pyramids Found In Crimea
Rothschild Papal And Royal Knights-Nazi Zionist Policy That Rules The World
The Atlantean Conspiracy
Edgar Cayce’s Prophecy Comes True: Hall of Records Discovered
The Shawnee Prophet Tecumseh Predicts Death Of Presidents On Zero Year
hirundine
Conspiracy Theory Part II
Religion Means Pathway To Truth
Climate Change
Migration Of Khazars Into Japan
The Empire
Reich Alive And Well In Benelux Union
The African Dogon
Bibliotecapleyades Everything You Always Wanted To Know
WHALE
The Atlantean Conspiracy
in5D
3. Most popular posts, The Jack Reed Theory, Mystery Tectonic Plate In The Gulf
Israelites Came To Ancient Japan
The Real Hell’s Angels
5. Thurmond Lake Earthquake Threatens Savannah River Nuclear Plant
6. Cayce Predicts Parts Of Georgia And SC To Go Under The Sea-Watch Pelee
AANGIRFAN NEW
AANGIRFAN
Kenny’s Side Show: The Soldier’s Revolt, Vietnam
The Jumping Jack Flash Hypothesis: Methane Extinction Level Event
Kahlil Gibran
The Louisiana Sinkhole Bugle
THE HAU DE NO SAU NEE MESSAGE TO THE WESTERN WORLD
The Truth Seeker
Black Sun Rising
Pattie L. Brassard Former NASA And Bell Lab Specialist Warns Of Second Sun And Earthquakes
Conspiracy Planet
Rasuratan Web
Vatican Crimes
Giants Of The Solomon Islands (must read)
Greg Hallett-Hitler Was A British Agent
God Save The Queen-Greg Hallett Interview With Jim Fetzer
Tecumseh_Panther Across The Sky: Predicts New Madrid Quake, death of 7 presidents on 0 Year
Copper Deficiency (The Unveiling) The Culling Of The Sheep
The Louisiana Sinkhole Bugle
Twelfthbough
DeepIntoArtLifeWest
Enenews: Fukushime The Extinction Level Event
Swami Abhedananda Takes On Churchianity
The Captain (AJIT VADAKAYIL) Rothschild Starves 5 Million Gengalis
Thirteenth Monkey
Earthfiles
Dark Forces (Rasputin)
Musings Of A Tired Soul
Flogging Dead Horses
Zombiesoup
EasyIdler
Richard Edmondson
Essene Gospel
The Grape Cure
Isrealites In Japan
The Memory Hole
Online Publishing, Hitler Was A British Agent
Dave McGowan: Rock and Roll, Hippies And The CIA
Cosmic Convergence
Canadian Holocaust
Jim Stone
Trout Clan Campfire
Joe Bageant
PASHUPATI’S MRIDANG
Before It’s News
Lobsong Rampa
Madcow
Vortex
Desdemonadespair
Apartheid Fort New Zealand
The American Mercury
Occurrences Domestic Foreign
Veritopian: No More Mysteries…
PPJ Gazette
Humans Are Free
TAPS BLOG
The Memory Hole
Information Clearinghouse
Johanna Brandt And The Grape Cure
Dr. Hulda Clark On Grapes
Welcome My Friends To The Show That Never Ends
Tales From The Nuclear Age
ZoSo’s TRUTHTALK13
Der Honigmann sagt
Recent Comments 
Gabreal Jones on The Background Of Archbishop P…Dublinsmick on Thawing Permafrost: The Speed…Dublinsmick on Thawing Permafrost: The Speed…flyingcuttlefish on Thawing Permafrost: The Speed…hirundine608 on Thawing Permafrost: The Speed…hirundine608 on 2015 Predictions: BRICS and Dr…Dublinsmick on Why Do Popes Wear A Yarmu…hirundine608 on Why Do Popes Wear A Yarmu…jibblogger on The Migration Of The Khazar In…peter berridge on Large Earthquake of 6-7 Near P…Janet Napolitano Res… on The Amazing Prophecies of Benj…Janet Napolitano Res… on Jack Reed’s Missing Tect…Janet Napolitano Res… on Janet Napolitano Resigns Warni…Dublinsmick on The Ancient Giants Who Ruled…Profetens sekretær on The Ancient Giants Who Ruled… 
Top Posts & PagesMonkey Blood, RH Negative Blood Types, Presidents And Royalty
Bulgarian Psychic Vanga Predicts Nothing Will Be left But The Glory Of Vladimir, No Word If This Was Lenin Or Putin, Russia To Be The World's Only Superpower
Switzerland Center Of Evil
Unbelievable Underwater Photos Of Atlantis Off Cuba, Pyramids Are 3 Times The Size of Cheops, Cayce Was Right! There Was A Polar Shift
65 Million Year Old Pyramid Is Discovered In Crimea With A Crowned Mummy-Crimea Just Became More Valuable
Edgar Cayce’s Prophecy Comes True: Hall of Records Discovered
Who Are The Nefilim, Where Did They Go, Will They Return?
The Background Of Archbishop Pacelli-Stalin And Hitler All Converge In Rome
Hitler Was A Rothschild And So Was His Daughter Angela
Now We Know What Happened To The Mayans-Tunnels Under Tikal Pyramid Extend 800 Kilometers To The Other Side Of The Country-Secrets Of The Bucegi Mountains
  Recent Posts 

The Background Of Archbishop Pacelli-Stalin And Hitler All Converge In Rome


Switzerland Center Of Evil


Tsar Nicholas’s Four Daughters Reportedly Raped


2015 Predictions: BRICS and Drones may break my bones…


Thawing Permafrost: The Speed Of Coastal Erosion In Eastern Siberia Has Nearly Doubled-Arctic Methane Released At Blinding Speed-Climate Change-Core Of Earth Heats Up


Strange Sounds in the Sky – Rumblings- Vibrations (Day And Night) Part II


Why Do Popes Wear A Yarmulke


2015: The Great Tribulation Of The 3rd Millennium Foreshadowed By The Shemitah Jubilee


What Is Up With O.J. Simpson?


The Ancient Giants Who Ruled America


Secret History Revealed —Vladimir Putin’s Russia: Perfect Foil To The Anglo-American Axis And Their New World ‘Order’-Why They Hate Him


Mushroom-shaped “pink cloud” seen at Fukushima after Reactor 3 exploded — Film: Nuclear bomb explosions caused “pink clouds of radiation”


The Top Of The Pyramid-The Rothschilds The British Crown And The Vatican Rule The World


The Matrix


Smithsonian Admits to Destruction of Thousands of Giant Human Skeletons in Early 1900′s


Lee Harvey Oswald: Unsung Hero Who Alerted JFK To ‘Assassination Plot’ In Chicago


The Manson Family Lived On A Movie Set-The Crime Scene Was The Home Of A Director Famous For Slasher Movies-The Victim Was An Actress


The Vatican And The Jesuits


Indigenous Voices From Real Planet Earth


FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter


Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman


Florida State University Shocked By Three Students Wounded By Gunman In Strozier Library


Satanic Ritual Abuse In Scotland


Putin The  Judoka Understands Western Foreign Policy Is Linked To London-A Fact Lost On Washingto Roberts


Using Sandy Hook as Pretext-Administration Backs Psychiatric Surveillance of School Children


Sink Hole Under Tennessee’s Boone Dam-7 Nuclear Plants Down Stream-Meltdowns An Absolute Certainty If Dam Fails


Hidden Italy: The Forbidden Cyclopean Ruins (Of Giants From Atlantis?)


Massive Explosion On Mars As It Is Hit By Comet


With The Ebola Meme The Theme Is Green


BREAKING: Formaldeyde in Water Allegedly Causing Ebola-like Symptoms-Liberian Man Arrested Putting Formaldehyde In Wells


Jim Stone Receiving Information Ebola is not real and the only people who have gotten sick are those who have received treatments and injections from the Red Cross


Kenneth Ray Kirkham Has Passed Away (Kenny’s sideshow)


GARCINIA KOLA is used in many tropical countries to fight infectious diseases such as Aids and the Ebola virus- It has shown to posses anti-inflammatory-antimicrobial and antiviral properties-also to increase lung function


The Naked Ape And His Killing Spree-Time For A Synthesis


More On The Bucegi Mountains And The Hall Of Records-Holographic Projections Of Man’s Time Upon The Earth


Now We Know What Happened To The Mayans-Tunnels Under Tikal Pyramid Extend 800 Kilometers To The Other Side Of The Country-Secrets Of The Bucegi Mountains


Sao Paulo Out Of Water In 100 Days-South East Louisana Losing 16 Miles Of Land A Year-Warm Water Flowing Into The Arctic


Dark Snow And The Glacial Ice Tea


It Is The Sun


“The Nuclear Energy Paradigm Collides with Earth Changes and Technospheric Breakdown” — The Final Chapter


September 11th, 2001 Marks The Beginning Of The End Of The KALI YUGA


Enduring Historical Myths And The Power Of Propaganda


Cyanotoxin A Neurotoxin In The Great Lakes And All 50 States Turns Animal Fat Yellow With Great Pain-Zombie Alligators


The Biosphere Approaches Critical Points Of No Return: Cosmic Convergence


Ziobonics Can You Speak It-Subject Worthy Of A College Curriculum


One In Three Carry RFID Chips And There Is A Strong Correlation To Recent Dental Work!


Climate Change Denial Industry Marches On As China Loses 50,000 Rivers And California Dries Up: Other Suppressed News From The Matrix Suppressed By Dead Enders


The World’s Most Dangerous Dams With Spectacular Possiblities From Our Planners Hovering Above Nuclear Plants


Nothing Is As It Seems In The Rabbit Hole


Ferguson Killing – Real Death or Staged Agitation Propaganda


191,000 Visits when StatCounter Activated Sometime around 23 hundred years ago we see in the Mahabharata Ydhishthira has a vision of the age to come: I see the coming of another age, where barbaric kings rule over a vicious, broken world, where puny, fearful men live tiny lives, white hair at sixteen, copulating with animals, their women perfect whores, making love with greedy mouths. The cows dry, trees stunted, no more flowers, no more purity, ambition, corruption, the age of Kali, the black time."

 View My Stats 
468,141 

 



Archives 
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012

 







 Unless we put medical freedom into the Constitution the time will comee when medicine will organize itself into an undercover dictatorship. To restrict the art of healing to doctors and deny equal privileges to others will constitute the Bastille of medical science. All such laws are un-American and despotic. 
Benjamin Rush, Signer of the Declaration of Independence
Destiny comes to those who listen and fate finds the rest. 
Frederick Nietzsche who said (I am paraphrasing) that to get to a semblance of truth, one must start by throwing out everything the theologians want to pass off as truth!
Believe those who are seeking the truth. Doubt those who find it. ~Andre Gide
If you chase two rabbits you will not catch either one. Russian
John Swinton on the Free Press 
One night, probably in 1880, John Swinton, then the preeminent New York journalist, was the guest of honour at a banquet given him by the leaders of his craft. Someone who knew neither the press nor Swinton offered a toast to the independent press. Swinton outraged his colleagues by replying:
“There is no such thing, at this date of the world’s history, in America, as an independent press. You know it and I know it.
There is not one of you who dares to write your honest opinions, and if you did, you know beforehand that it would never appear in print. I am paid weekly for keeping my honest opinion out of the paper I am connected with.
Others of you are paid similar salaries for similar things, and any of you who would be so foolish as to write honest opinions would be out on the streets looking for another job. If I allowed my honest opinions to appear in one issue of my paper, before twenty-four hours my occupation would be gone.
The business of the journalists is to destroy the truth, to lie outright, to pervert, to vilify, to fawn at the feet of mammon, and to sell his country and his race for his daily bread. You know it and I know it, and what folly is this toasting an independent press?
We are the tools and vassals of rich men behind the scenes. We are the jumping jacks, they pull the strings and we dance. Our talents, our possibilities and our lives are all the property of other men. We are intellectual prostitutes.”
I believe that men are generally still a little afraid of the dark, though the witches are all hung, and Christianity and candles have been introduced. ~Henry David Thoreau, "Solitude," Walden, 1854
The angels have grown tired of the clever .... Kahlil Gibran
Some people walk in the rain others just get wet.
A member of the Ohiyesa Santee Sioux was asked about the sabbath and he replied that he saw no need to set aside one day a week for God, for an indian all days are God's days. 
“Sometimes people hold a core belief that is very strong. When they are presented with evidence that works against that belief, the new evidence cannot be accepted. It would create a feeling that is extremely uncomfortable, called cognitive dissonance. And because it is so important to protect the core belief, they will rationalize, ignore and even deny anything that doesn’t fit in with the core belief.” -Frantz Fanon”
It is much easier to fool someone than to to convince them they have been fooled ... Mark Twain
I usually lump organized religion, organized labor, and organized crime together. The Mafia gets points for having the best restaurants.
Faith is spiritualized imagination
To me faith means not worrying. ~John Dewey
“The real hopeless victims of mental illness are to be found among those who appear to be most normal. "Many of them are normal because they are so well adjusted to our mode of existence, because their human voice has been silenced so early in their lives, that they do not even struggle or suffer or develop symptoms as the neurotic does." They are normal not in what may be called the absolute sense of the word; they are normal only in relation to a profoundly abnormal society. Their perfect adjustment to that abnormal society is a measure of their mental sickness. These millions of abnormally normal people, living without fuss in a society to which, if they were fully human beings, they ought not to be adjusted.”
Aldous Huxley Brave New World

 



 An Inuit hunter asked the local missionary priest: "If I did not know about God and sin, would I go to hell?" "No," said the priest, "not if you did not know." "Then why," asked the Inuit earnestly, "did you tell me?" ~Annie Dillard, Pilgrim at Tinker Creek.
I didn't know I had a quarrel with him. ~Henry Thoreau in answer to the question, "Have you made your peace with God?"
Man is a Religious Animal. He is the only Religious Animal. He is the only animal that has the True Religion - several of them. He is the only animal that loves his neighbor as himself and cuts his throat if his theology isn't straight. He has made a graveyard of the globe in trying his honest best to smooth his brother's path to happiness and heaven. ~Mark Twain
Religion is regarded by the common people as true, by the wise as false, and by the rulers as useful. ~Seneca the Younger
The past actually happened but history is only what someone wrote down. ~A. Whitney Brown, The Big Picture
Woe unto the defeated,
whom history treads
into the dust.
~Arthur Koestler, Darkness at Noon
 "Beware of the pedant, the man in the ivory tower, who cannot be trusted any more than the rabble of the streets.  Too long cloistered in the halls of academe, the first are dangerous, for they fail to understand the world, and know not reality. The second are like a mindless storm, roaring and insatiable, full of rage, and a self righteous and acquisitive passion Cicero
All things are subject to interpretation whichever interpretation prevails at a given time is a function of power and not truth.......Nietzsche
He who fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby become a monster. And if you gaze long into the abyss, the abyss gazes also into you....Nietzsche
How good bad music and bad reason sound when one marches against an enemy...Nietzsche
Whatever is done for love always occurs beyond good and evil......Nietzsche
In heaven all the interesting people are missing.....Nietzsche
The kingdom of heaven is a condition of the heart..not something that comes upon the earth or after death.....Nietzsche
We should consider everyday lost which we do not dance at least once.....Nietzsche
Against boredom the gods themselves fight in vain.....Nietzsche
You can see a lot by just looking
Who is more foolish, the child afraid of the dark or the man afraid of the light?
“The real hopeless victims of mental illness are to be found among those who appear to be most normal.
“Many of them are normal because they are so well adjusted to our mode of existence, because their human voice has been silenced so early in their lives, that they do not even struggle or suffer or develop symptoms as the neurotic does.
They are normal not in what may be called the absolute sense of the word; they are normal only in relation to a profoundly abnormal society. Their perfect adjustment to that abnormal society is a measure of their mental sickness.
These millions of abnormally normal people, living without fuss in a society to which, if they were fully human beings, they ought not to be adjusted.” -Aldous Huxley, Brave New World Revisited
Scriptures: the sacred books of our holy religion, as distinguished from the false and profane writings on which all other faiths are based. ~Ambrose Bierce
The question before the human race is, whether the God of nature shall govern the world by his own laws, or whether priests and kings shall rule it by fictitious miracles? ~John Adams, letter to Thomas Jefferson, 20 June 1815
— H.L. Mencken, The Baltimore Evening Sun, July 26, 1920
“Democracy is the theory that the common people know what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard.”
Democracy too is a religion. It is the worship of jackals by jackasses.
“As democracy is perfected, the office of the President represents, more and more closely, the inner soul of the people. On some great and glorious day, the plain folks of the land will reach their heart’s desire at last and the White House will be occupied by a downright fool and complete narcissistic moron.”
1920

 



 I viewed my fellow man not as a fallen angel, but as a risen ape. ~Desmond Morris, The Naked Ape...
The study of crime begins with the knowledge of oneself. ~Henry Miller, The Air-Conditioned Nightmare, 1945.....
There is great security in the prisons we create for ourselves. ~Stephen G. Scalese, The Whisper in Your Heart.......
And remember, no matter where you go, there you are. ~Confucius........
There are at least two kinds of cowards. One kind always lives with himself, afraid to face the world. The other kind lives with the world, afraid to face himself........
It is not easy to find happiness in ourselves, and it is not possible to find it elsewhere. ~Agnes Repplier.......
Never be afraid to sit awhile and think. ~Lorraine Hansberry, A Raisin in the Sun.......
It's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see. ~Henry David Thoreau.......
History is a vast early warning system. ~Norman Cousins........
There's more to the truth than just the facts. ~Author Unknown.........
If a man who cannot count finds a four-leaf clover, is he lucky?
~Stanislaw J. Lec.......
To repeat what others have said requires education, to challenge it requires brains. Mary Pettibone Poule..........Glass eye in a keyhole.......
Insanity in individuals is something rare..but in groups, parties, nations, and epochs it is the rule....Nietzsche........
Occident: The part of the world lying west (or east) of the Orient. It is largely inhabited by Christians, a powerful subtribe of the Hypocrites, whose principal industries are murder and cheating, which they are pleased to call "war" and "commerce." These, also, are the principal industries of the Orient. ~Ambrose Bierce, The Devil's Dictionary.........
"There are days when you need someone who just wants to be your sunshine and not the air you breathe.".........
We would rather forgive the evil proliferating all around us than the rebellion against it, which we mistake for the true evil - Arno Gruen (Betrayal of the Self)........
For animals earth is hell, and men are the demons who torture them...Arthur Schopenhauer........
History records no conflict greater or more long enduring than that of humanity against the truth ~ Brendan Gil.......
Those who represent an ideal beyond the comprehension of the masses must face the persecution of the unthinking multitude who are without the divine idealism which inspires progress and those rational faculties which unerringly sift truth from falsehood." -Manly Palmer Hall..........
If you cannot be a student of logic, at least be a casual fan........
“To know when one does not know is best. To think one knows when one does not know is a dire disease.” Taoism: Tao Te Ching
“The fool who knows that he is a fool is for that very reason a wise man; the fool who thinks he is wise is called a fool indeed.” Buddhism: Dhammapada
The indian does not understand why the Christian sets aside one day as the sabbath-To the indian all days are God's days ... Santee Sioux
Rodney Alcala, Ted Bundy, Wm Gacy, Son of Sam, Jeffrey Dahmer, Lenin, Marx, The Windsors, Trotsky and Victor Rothschild all have one thing in common and if you don't know what it is, I suggest you find out as soon as possible!
Our race is the Master Race. We are divine gods on this planet. We are as different from the inferior races as they are from insects. In fact, compared to our race, other races are beasts and animals, cattle at best. Other races are considered as human excrement. Our destiny is to rule over the inferior races. Our earthly kingdom will be ruled by our leader with a rod of iron. The masses will lick our feet and serve us as our slaves."
-Menachem Begin (Israeli Prime Minister, 1977-1983)
At times articles here are reproduced in accordance with Section 107 of title 17 of the Copyright Law of the United States relating to fair-use and is for the purposes of criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship, and research. If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner. Be aware no violence is advocated or should be attributed to this site, nor any liability that might ensue due to perceived advice from any information found here whether from medical articles or other. That is up to your discretion. If you feel that some type of copyright infringement has occurred, kindly point it out and it will be removed.

 




					Here Comes The Sun				


The Twenty Ten Theme.				Blog at WordPress.com.
			





























Follow

Follow “Here Comes The Sun”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 157 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com





 




