Florida State Baseball to Host Regionals: FSU to stay in Tallahassee - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State Baseball to Host Regionals: FSU to stay in Tallahassee - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







College Baseball 2014
Florida State Baseball


Florida State Baseball to Host Regionals: FSU to stay in Tallahassee

    By Ariya Massoudi


@AriyaMassoudi


    on May 25 2014, 9:06p

    

51











USA TODAY Sports






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook






Tallahassee was selected as one of sixteen host sites for the 2014 NCAA Regionals, beginning Friday. Also, after a strong ACC Tournament, are the Noles a National Seed? We break down the picture for a Top 8 seed.




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




51


      Comments
    




Florida State was named by the NCAA as one of sixteen host teams for the Regional round Sunday night. Joining the Seminoles as host teams are: Virginia, Florida, Oregon State, Indiana, UL-Lafayette, Louisiana State, Ole Miss, South Carolina, Louisville, Texas Christian, Cal Poly, Oklahoma State, Vanderbilt, Rice, and Miami
National Seed Picture
The National Seed race is wild at the moment with teams making surges and others fading out of the picture. One thing is certain, there will be a few worthy teams come Monday at noon that are left out from the Top 8.





Locks
Virginia: 44-13 (22-8 ACC), RPI: 1, SOS: 20, 14-8 vs. RPI Top 50
The Hoos finished the season with a series loss to Wake Forest and a 1-2 showing in the ACC Tournament. However with a very strong RPI and SOS, including a great conference record and strong record vs. the RPI Top 50, Virginia has nothing to worry about.
Florida: 34-18 (19-8 SEC), RPI: 3, SOS: 1, 23-14 vs. RPI Top 50
The Gators remain a lock after winning the SEC regular season title. UF has the top SOS in the nation, a ridiculous number of quality wins and a superb RPI. Florida could be the top national seed when they are announced.
Oregon State: 42-12 (23-7 PAC-12), RPI: 6, SOS: 49, 13-5 vs. RPI Top 50





Oregon State clinched the PAC-12 championship this weekend with a win over USC. The Beavers have a strong RPI, and a great record against quality opponents. Oregon State is a likely Top 3 seed.
Louisiana-Lafayette: 53-7 (26-4 Sun Belt), RPI: 9, SOS: 114, 3-1 vs. RPI Top 50
ULL locked up a National Seed by having a strong conference tournament. Sure, they have a weak SOS, but with a strong RPI and a ridiculous number of wins, they are locked up for a Top 8 seed. Regardless of whether I think they deserve it by beating up on terrible opponents.
Florida State: 43-15 (21-9 ACC), RPI: 4, SOS: 7, 14-13 vs. RPI Top 50
The Noles were likely locked up after finishing the regular season with a series win against Duke, but having a strong ACC Tournament including a win over Virginia didn't hurt. With Miami fading this week in Greensboro, FSU now has nothing to worry about, they are a lock for National Seed.
Indiana: 42-13 (21-3 Big 10), RPI: 2, SOS: 36, 9-7 vs. RPI Top 50
The Hoosiers have had a fantastic 2014 campaign, winning both the Big 10 regular season and tournament. With a very strong RPI and good SOS, Indiana was a near lock coming into the Big 10 Tournament and with a great showing there have locked up a National Seed.
Bubble
Ole Miss: 41-18 (19-11 SEC), RPI: 14, SOS: 17, 15-13 vs. RPI Top 50

LSU: 44-14 (17-11 SEC), RPI: 9, SOS: 39, 14-11 vs. RPI Top 50


The Rebels seemed to be in great shape coming into this week after taking a road series against Texas A&M. Unfortunately, they had a poor SEC Tournament losing twice to Arkansas. While they may still get a National Seed, one has to wonder if LSU's hot streak recently has surged the Tigers ahead of the Rebels. LSU holds a higher RPI than Ole Miss and has strong momentum by winning their last seven games. The tie-break could be the head-to-head series win LSU had in Oxford back in April. This is a close call with both teams deserving and likely only one spot available.


LSU has surged into a possible National Seed by winning its last seven games and tearing through the SEC Tournament to the championship game. Momentum matters to the NCAA committee and with a high RPI and a good number of wins against the RPI Top 50, the SEC title might do the trick. Should LSU lose to UF in the SEC Final, then it will be interesting to see who gets the nod between the Tigers and Rebels, if not maybe both receiving national seeds.


Vanderbilt: 41-18 (17-13 SEC), RPI: 8, SOS: 5, 17-14 vs. RPI Top 50

South Carolina: 42-16 (18-12 SEC), RPI: 13, SOS: 31, 12-11 vs. RPI Top 50


The Commodores fell out of the National Seed picture after losing a series against fellow bubble team South Carolina to end the regular season. Vandy followed that up with a 1-2 performance in the SEC Tournament losing to LSU and Ole Miss, both teams also vying for a Top 8 seed. Just two weeks ago Vanderbilt was just in as a national seed, now they are sweating it out just for a regional host spot.



The Gamecocks did end the regular season with a big series win against Vanderbilt, but going 0-2 in the SEC Tournament has likely knocked them out of a National Seed. With both Ole Miss and LSU ahead in the pecking order, South Carolina getting a Top 8 seed would be surprising.



Texas Christian: 42-15 (15-6 Big 12), RPI: 12, SOS: 26, 16-8 vs. RPI Top 50

Oklahoma State: 45-16 (18-6 Big 12), RPI: 18, SOS: 49, 17-6 vs. RPI Top 50


TCU has been in the picture for a while now with a strong RPI and SOS. Oklahoma State on the other hand, has stormed into the picture by winning the Big 12 regular season and reaching the conference tournament's title game. The Big 12 is the #2 rated conference by the RPI and will likely get a spot with the ACC and SEC doubtful to get three seeds. Oklahoma State has the series head to head claim and has a tremendous record against quality opponents. It's been much talked about around the national media, but the winner of the Big 12 Tournament Championship Game will likely get the conference's lone National Seed.


Miami: 41-17 (24-6 ACC), RPI: 15, SOS: 19, 11-11 vs. RPI Top 50

Cal Poly: 45-10 (19-5 Big West), RPI: 16, SOS: 146, 6-5 vs. RPI Top 50
These two teams are likely out for a national seed for different reasons. Miami came into the ACC Tournament as a National Seed, but a 1-2 record there, along with the surge from other teams around the nation, has them likely out at this time. Miami does have the ACC Regular Season Championship, but it's resume isn't too overwhelming with an OK RPI and an average record against RPI Top 50 opponents. What really hurts Miami is that the ACC already has two surefire National Seeds, and it's unlikely any conference gets three.


Cal Poly is a team that is similar to UL-Lafayette in that they have a ton of wins albeit against weak competition. The Mustangs have a pretty good RPI, but it's just not high enough to off-set the poor SOS, like ULL can claim.


Final Top 8 Seeds
1. Florida
2. Virginia 
3. Oregon State
4. Indiana
5. Florida State
6. Louisiana State
7. Louisiana-Lafayette
8. Texas Christian 
LSU defeated Florida today in the SEC Championship capping an incredible last couple weeks for the Tigers. As a result they will get a National Seed. Meanwhile TCU defeated Oklahoma State in the Big 12 Championship, likely giving them the last National Seed, although they aren't nearly the lock LSU is. I have a funny feeling the SEC may get three national seeds with both LSU and Ole Miss receiving one, but I have a hard time believing the #2 RPI conference (Big 12) doesn't receive a single national seed.
Florida is still likely the #1 overall seed due to their very strong RPI, #1 ranked SOS, 23 wins against RPI Top 50, and winning the regular season title in the #1 rated RPI conference. Add that to the fact they finished the season stronger than both UVA and Oregon State and you have your likely top national seed.
What are your thoughts at the last National Seed predictions? Who are your eight? Discuss below. Official seeds and brackets will be announced tomorrow at 12 PM ET on ESPNU, use this thread to discuss during the selection show.



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




51


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State Seminoles Regional Stream



May 31

              181 comments
          

FSU Baseball Falls to Alabama, Season Over



May 25

              51 comments
          

Florida State Baseball to Host Regionals: FSU to stay in Tallahassee


14 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































