NCAA Tallahassee Regional press conference and other  FSU diamond notes - Tomahawk Nation 
NCAA Tallahassee Regional press conference and other  FSU diamond notes - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Baseball


NCAA Tallahassee Regional press conference and other  FSU diamond notes

    By Dustin Tackett


@dtackett_


    on May 29 2014, 8:44p

    

13











USA TODAY Sports






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook






With the Tallahassee Regional set to begin Friday at noon, each team's head coach sat down with the media in preparation of the weekend's contests. Also, the lady Noles began WCWS play.




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




13


      Comments
    




Thursday was an action-packed day for those Florida State Seminoles that gather clay between their cleats.
While the NCAA's Tallahassee Regional is set to begin Friday at noon inside Dick Howser Stadium, it wasn't the only news coming from the diamond.





 
Collegiate Baseball/ Louisville Slugger All-Americans
 
It was announced that DJ Stewart and Luke Weaver were named second and third team All-Americans, respectively, an honor decided on by the Collegiate Baseball Magazine.
If you're a Florida State fan this is great to hear, but I'm not so sure Stewart doesn't deserve first-team honors. Both Stewart and Weaver have been instrumental in the success seen during 2014's campaign, and that shouldn't be understated. But as the NCAA Championship Tournament begins, I think the FSU faithful are just fine with these second and third-teamers.
 
 
WCWS: Florida State vs. Oregon
 
The  no. 8 seeded lady Noles dropped their Women's College World Series opener against no. 1 seeded Oregon Thursday afternoon, 3-0.
Florida State only managed a single hit against Oregon's ace Cheridan Hawkins on Thursday, drawing only a pair of walk in addition.
With this loss, the Noles are now set to face 13th seeded Baylor, who got mercy ruled by Florida on Thursday, in an elimination game Saturday at noon.





 
 
Tallahassee Regional press conference
 
The big news out of the Florida State camp was the way Mike Martin lit up when asked about Brandon Leibrandt. And after monitoring the situation, talking to Martin and Bell about Leibrandt and reading their responses and the way they've evolved over the last week or so, I'm finally confident that Leibrandt is back to where they want him.
Here was Martin in response to a question about a "lift" in the bullpen with Leibrandt healthy again..
"I don't really care how the rest of them feel," Martin said emphatically, "I'm elated. We have waited for this for over two months. It was a freak injury. In all my years of baseball, I've never witnessed anything like this."
"I would say he's ready to pitch, and we're going to use him. We don't know when or where, but he is ready to pitch."
While the news on Leibrandt was positive, Bryant Holtmann remains questionable.
DJ Stewart, who missed a couple days of practice this week, seems to be much better and is "already penciled in for Friday," according to Martin.
 
As a whole, all four coaches are excited for the opportunity. Kennesaw State comes into the regional having won 23 of its last 24 games, while Alabama "limps in" after a rough final stretch against the meat of its schedule. Georgia Southern is looking to surprise with an offense that has scored 401 runs on the year.
Alabama's head coach Mitch Gaspard also joked about being in Tallahassee pretty much every year.
"Again, uh, we're back," Gaspard said jokingly. "After three out of the last four years, I'm on a first-name basis with all of the administrators here . And I'll tell you what, not a better place you can come to, and what a great job they do of putting on regional. They've got a good habit, you know, they've done it 28, 29 years in a row now, which is super impressive."
Georgia Southern's head coach Rodney Hennon announced that they'll be starting LHP Sam Howard against Florida State Friday night. Howard is (6-6) on the year in 13 starts for the Eagles, accumulating a 2.60 ERA. In 86.2 innings pitched, he has struck out 84 batters and only walked 18, allowing an opponents batting average of .245.
Florida State's patience has hurt them at time this year against guys that don't hand out walks. It'll be interesting to see how aggressive FSU's approach at the plate will be.



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




13


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State Seminoles Regional Stream



May 31

              181 comments
          

FSU Baseball Falls to Alabama, Season Over



May 29

              13 comments
          

NCAA Tallahassee Regional press conference and other  FSU diamond notes



May 29

              11 comments
          

Florida State Baseball and the Field of 64: Regional Stat Breakdown


14 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































