#4 Florida State visits North Carolina - Tomahawk Nation 
#4 Florida State visits North Carolina - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







×
Connect with Tomahawk Nation










Florida State Baseball


#4 Florida State visits North Carolina

    By Ariya Massoudi


@AriyaMassoudi


    on May 9 2014, 2:49p

    

27











USA TODAY Sports



The fourth-ranked Florida State Seminoles (37-11, 17-7) head to Chapel Hill to battle the North Carolina Tar Heels (29-19, 13-11) in an important conference series for both teams.




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




27


      Comments
    




The Seminoles are coming of a series sweep against the Minnesota Golden Gophers. Florida State is in fantastic shape to earning a coveted national seed and this weekend could help solidify their position as one of the Top 8 seeds. The Noles lead the Atlantic Division of the conference by 4.5 games over Clemson and could actually lock up the division crown this weekend. Meanwhile, UNC is playing great baseball of their own, winners of six of their last seven. With an RPI of 44 and and a SOS of 33 the Heels are in good shape to make the NCAA Regionals. A series win against a top five RPI team like FSU will lock their spot up as a tournament team. In other words this is an important weekend for both teams. 
OFFENSE
Florida State heads into this match-up with the offensive advantage scoring nearly two more runs per game than UNC and leading the conference in team on-base percentage as well as team slugging percentage. The Noles once again have a fantastic offense that puts runners on base in a multitude of ways and still brings them in at a solid clip.






The Tar Heels interestingly have a better team batting average than FSU in conference play, but the numbers indicate the Heels haven't quite been able to put runners on or bring them in like the Seminoles have. The Heels have just two players with OBPs above .400 (compared to FSU's five). Regardless, UNC does have a solid offense, led by the conference's top hitter in Michael Russell (.361/.442/.525). Tom Zengel (.284/.346/.474) and Tyler Ramirez (.289/.376/.401) have been solid for the Heels as well.
Florida State has the best offense in the ACC and one of the best in the entire country. The Noles lead the conference in on-base percentage, slugging percentage, runs scored, runs batted in, doubles, and walks. They're also in the top five of many other offensive categories. DJ Stewart (.351/.462/.578) will play with Team USA this summer and is the conference's best overall offensive player. John Nogowski (.329/.466/.485) and Jose Brizuela (.324/.417/.474) have had great seasons thus far, giving FSU arguably the best 3-4-5 hitting combo in the ACC.
PITCHING

The Tar Heels have been fantastic on the mound this season with a team ERA of of just 2.80, good for second best in the ACC behind Virginia. With a low number of hits allowed per game coupled with a high strikeout rate, UNC has largely been able to keep offenses at bay all season. The one alarming stat, one that could prove costly against a patient Seminole offense, is the number of walks issued by the Tar Heel staff. Four walks per nine innings is too high of a number to give up, let alone against the conference's walks leader. This will be an interesting area to keep an eye on this weekend as free passes fuel the Seminole offense.





The Seminoles have also pitched at a high level this season with a strong team ERA and a low walk rate per nine innings. The weekend rotation has been great, despite losing Brandon Leibrandt (who hopes to return next weekend) to a leg injury. Luke Weaver has been a great ace and Mike Compton has begun to find his strong form again giving FSU a very good 1-2 punch. Coupled with a fantastic bullpen, the Seminole pitchers have done their part on the mound.
Friday

This ought to be a fantastic match-up between two of the ACC's best pitchers. Trent Thornton was UNC's closer last season and his transition into the Friday ace role has been seamless. Thornton has been superb, with a sterling ERA under two and a low hit rate coupled with a high strikeout rate. Thornton pitches deep into games having gone at least six innings in every start this season. What's even more impressive about Thornton is that he has given up just five extra base hits all season.
Luke Weaver has been very good for Florida State this year, pitching deep into ball games and limiting the walks. However, Weaver has had a string of inconsistent performances of dominant starts followed by less than fantastic starts. He's never been "bad" in any start, but for the pitcher of caliber Weaver is, his dominant starts usually guarantee a win for FSU on Friday nights. Luke Weaver will need to be on his "A" game going up against Trent Thornton.
Saturday

Benton Moss has been solid for North Carolina in 2014 pitching deep into games in his eleven starts. Moss relies on throwing strikes and letting his defense work behind him. He does have a bit of a high walk rate and that will be interesting to watch against the Noles.
Mike Compton has had another great year for FSU after missing last season due to an arm injury. The Sophomore relies on controlling the plate, limiting his walks, and getting ground balls. Sometimes he is unlucky to give up the amount of hits he does due to his pitch-to-contact approach. Compton has seemed to find his groove the last few starts allowing just two earned runs in his last 14 innings pitched. Compton will again need to limit walks as he has all season and limit the hits to just singles.
Sunday

Zac Gallen has had a serviceable year for UNC, logging a good amount innings as the Sunday starter. His numbers don't jump off the page and at first glance indicate the Seminoles offense should have a good shot to score runs against him. With an ERA above four, a low strikeout rate, and batters hitting near .300 against him, one would imagine the FSU offense has a major advantage. Interestingly, Gallen just pitched this week on Tuesday in a fine effort, giving up no runs in six innings of work. Gallen will be on short rest after throwing 87 pitches as well, which will be something to keep an eye on. UNC does have a quality bullpen that can pick up the slack should Gallen have short outing.
For FSU this is where not having Brandon Leibrandt available hurts. With a healthy Leibrandt, FSU has a major advantage on the hill most Sundays with Compton pitching. His absence, plus his fill-in (Bryant Holtmann) being injured as well, has thrown the rotation into limbo. I imagine the start will go to either LHP Billy Strode or RHP Peter Miller. Both have excelled in their late season roles, with Strode as a mid-week starter and Miller as a long relief bullpen arm. Strode has since been used in the pen as well due to the midweek games coming down to a close. My pick would be Strode as he's only allowed one earned run in his last 17 innings pitched. Then again we all thought it would be Strode last weekend, if not Peter Miller, and it ended up being Taylor Blatch. Stay tuned for Sunday's starter.
COVERAGE
Friday's game will be on ESPN3 while Saturday's game will be televised on your Regional Sports Network (usually FS Florida, FS South, etc.). Sunday has no TV listed but will be available for pay via UNC's athletic's website.

This is an important series for both ball clubs. Each team is trying to secure a spot as either a national seed or in the tourney altogether in UNC's case. Traveling to Chapel Hill is never easy and the Heels have a good ball-club with fantastic pitching. The Seminoles will need to pitch at a high level all weekend and continue to put runners on base, bringing them in when the opportunities present themselves. North Carolina will throw three RHPs that will allow FSU to play its best offensive line-up with Casey Smit in it. I imagine UNC will try and play small ball and rely on its pitching staff to win close, low scoring games. That being said, even with the injuries, Florida State is the better team and should win at least 2 of 3. See you at 7 PM tonight.
Go Noles!



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




27


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State Seminoles Travel to North Carolina Tar Heels



May 11

              130 comments
          

Florida State-North Carolina Game 3 Thread



May 9

              27 comments
          

#4 Florida State visits North Carolina


3 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































