Textbooks saved Florida State University student during shooting
Textbooks saved Florida State University student during shooting












Username: 
Password: 


Lost your password or username?Need a new activation email? Click Here.

















Skip to main content


Log In
    |
    Sign Up
	
	|
  Join the Action Alert list!
  |
	Help


Daily Kos

News, Community, Action



PEOPLE
GROUPS
DIARIES
TAGS
LABOR
COMICS
ELECTIONS
ECON
RADIO



Search Term






















Scout FinchFollowRSS

Daily Kos staff

Profile
Diaries (list)
Stream


Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 08:54 AM PST
Textbooks saved Florida State University student during shooting
by Jen HaydenFollow 


Tweet
19 Comments





Chaos erupted at Florida State University last night:
In a scene of terror and confusion, students at a university library in Florida cowered behind stacks of books and dove under desks as an assailant with a handgun opened fire early Thursday before being killed in a shootout with police, officials said.
At least three Florida State University students were wounded, one critically.

One student who goes by the name "thejasond123" on reddit was posting on the site immediately after the shooting, saying he'd heard shots and saw the gunman fire on another student. The reddit user says he ran for his car and sped away. It was only after he got home that he discovered his backpack and textbooks had taken a bullet:
I'm a student at FSU, I was leaving Strozier when I heard a shot behind me. I turned around and saw the gunman shoot one person who collapsed. I turned and ran to my car before driving off. There were a ton of people stuck in the library when this happened. I went home so I don't have any other details.
Edit: I got home and noticed two of my books were destroyed. They stopped the bullet. I was the initial target of the gunman. I've posted pictures of the bullet, the books, and my backpack. I'm beyond lucky to not have been injured at all. Thank you all for your support, your comments have comforted me.
Edit 2: Just got home from the station. Gave my statement, the police came by around 3:30 a.m. to collect the evidence. There were a bunch of people shaken up at the station, but it looks like everyone is okay. The worst injured guy is in surgery, and after that, hopefully (s)he's in the clear. Also, thank you for the gold, kind stranger. :)

He posted photos showing his books and backpack, see the images and video below the fold.

		





Meanwhile, at least 300 students were trapped in the library while police confronted the gunman. One student captured the scene:


10:05 AM PT: The reddit user has now been identified as Jason Durfess and you can hear an interview about his experience here.



Tags

Florida State shooting
reddit





(Load)
(Load)
(Load)
(Load)
(Load)
(Load)
(Load)



EMAIL TO A FRIEND
X


To Please use one to three valid email addresses.

From Please use a valid email address.

Your Message
Enter your message
CancelSend
Your Email has been sent.



(Load)


You must add at least one tag to this diary before publishing it.






Add keywords that describe this diary.
		Separate multiple keywords with commas.
Tagging tips
	- Search For Tags
	- Browse For Tags

?

More Tagging tips:
A tag is a way to search for this diary. If someone is searching for "Barack Obama," is this a diary they'd be trying to find?
Use a person's full name, without any title. Senator Obama may become President Obama, and Michelle Obama might run for office.
If your diary covers an election or elected official, use election tags, which are generally the state abbreviation followed by the office. 
		CA-01 is the first district House seat. CA-Sen covers both senate races. NY-GOV covers the New York governor's race.
Tags do not compound: that is, "education reform" is a completely different tag from "education". A tag like "reform" alone is probably not meaningful.





Consider if one or more of these tags fits your diary: 
	
	Civil Rights, Community, Congress, Culture, Economy, Education, Elections, Energy, Environment, Health Care, International, Labor, Law, Media, Meta, National Security, Science, Transportation, or White House.
	If your diary is specific to a state, consider adding the state 
	(California,
	Texas, etc).
	Keep in mind, though, that there are many wonderful and important diaries
	that don't fit in any of these tags. Don't worry if yours doesn't.
	






You can add a private note to this diary when hotlisting it:











Are you sure you want to remove this diary from your hotlist?










Are you sure you want to remove your recommendation? You can only recommend a diary once, so you will not be able to re-recommend it afterwards.









Rescue this diary, and add a note:










Are you sure you want to remove this diary from Rescue?









Choose where to republish this diary. The diary will be added to the queue for that group. Publish it from the queue to make it appear.




You must be a member of a group to use this feature.





Add a quick update to your diary without changing the diary itself:










Are you sure you want to remove this diary?











Unpublish Diary

				(The diary will be removed from the site and returned to your drafts for further editing.)
			




Delete Diary

				(The diary will be removed.)
			





















Are you sure you want to save these changes to the published diary?
































Comment Preferences


 expand
 shrink
 hide





  Auto Refresh?












19 comments
                 | Permalink




  Tip Jar
(36+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
ericlewis0, Ree Zen, cosette, MKinTN, Tinfoil Hat, Gooserock, Wee Mama, Elizaveta, Youffraita, CWinebrinner, susans, Pinto Pony, belinda ridgewood, annieli, bakeneko, maybeeso in michigan, worldlotus, Cassandra Waites, shaharazade, IndieGuy, splashy, HeyMikey, fiercefilms, paz3, gloriana, BachFan, devis1, bobcat41702, jan4insight, HedwigKos, BlackSheep1, annrose, dconrad, Liberal Of Limeyland, Mopshell, AuroraDawn






@Scout_Finch on Twitter

by Jen Hayden on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 08:54:16 AM PST







  Y'Know Some Day Some Jerk's Gonna Try to Deny
(8+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
susans, Wee Mama, belinda ridgewood, annieli, bakeneko, maybeeso in michigan, Cassandra Waites, paz3



him a loan or a job or something on grounds of being too great a risk.
I can imagine whipping out that book as evidence to the contrary!
So glad he made it through safe.



We are called to speak for the weak, for the voiceless, for victims of our nation and for those it calls enemy.... --ML King "Beyond Vietnam"

by Gooserock on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 09:20:56 AM PST







  Further proof - if anymore was needed -
(15+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
Elizaveta, ROGNM, susans, Wee Mama, seefleur, Jen Hayden, belinda ridgewood, markdd, bakeneko, maybeeso in michigan, Cassandra Waites, splashy, retLT, BachFan, Liberal Of Limeyland



that the pen is mightier than the sword.



Nospinicus

by Nospinicus on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 09:23:43 AM PST








  Hmmm.
(0+ / 0-)


You know that's a book, and not a pen, right? It was also a gun, not a sword.



by Propagandar on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 10:43:00 AM PST

  
 
 
  [ Parent ] 
    
   

 
 
 






  You do understand that was a metaphor, right?
(5+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
splashy, retLT, jan4insight, dconrad, Mopshell







Justice. -8.50, -7.38.

  by IndieGuy on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 12:04:23 PM PST

  
 
 
  [ Parent ] 
    
   

 
 
 







  John Wyclif saves another soul!
(19+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
susans, Jen Hayden, belinda ridgewood, annieli, bakeneko, maybeeso in michigan, swampyankee, peregrine kate, old wobbly, Cassandra Waites, shaharazade, IndieGuy, splashy, paz3, BachFan, jan4insight, OldGrammy, dconrad, Mopshell



</Anglican joke>





Is it true? Is it kind? Is it necessary? . . . and respect the dignity of every human being.

  by Wee Mama on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 09:24:27 AM PST








  Looking at the cover, it seems
(2+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
Wee Mama, Mopshell



it was actually some guy named "ohn Wyclif". Probably his brother. :)




La majestueuse égalité des lois, qui interdit au riche comme au pauvre de coucher sous les ponts, de mendier dans les rues, et de voler du pain.

by dconrad on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 02:30:15 PM PST

  
 
 
  [ Parent ] 
    
   

 
 
 






  sword still mightier than words will never hurt me
(3+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
bakeneko, IndieGuy, jan4insight







Warning - some snark may be above‽ (-9.50; -7.03)‽ eState4Column5©2013 _____"I have a hobby." John Reese____(@eState4Column5)

by annieli on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 10:13:19 AM PST







  Did you all hear?
(0+ / 0-)


Jason was deemed worthy of divine intervention by the almighty God.
I wonder why the others chose to be so undeserving?



by Propagandar on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 10:44:10 AM PST








  *
(1+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
AuroraDawn








Is it true? Is it kind? Is it necessary? . . . and respect the dignity of every human being.

  by Wee Mama on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 04:46:51 PM PST

  
 
 
  [ Parent ] 
    
   

 
 
 






  If it was a Bible the right wingers would
(1+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
Mopshell



Be all over it!
It's a miracle!!!!





Women create the entire labor force.
---------------------------------------------
Sympathy is the strongest instinct in human nature. - Charles Darwin

  by splashy on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 12:11:57 PM PST







  I'll have to share this with my students
(2+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
jan4insight, Kentucky DeanDemocrat



then maybe they'll buy the friggin' textbook.  Seriously, the monopolistic prices charged by textbook publishers are a grave problem in higher education today.  I'm just glad that no one except the shooter was killed.


Reporting from Tea Bagger occupied America
by DrJohnB on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 12:25:11 PM PST








  You got that right.
(2+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
Mopshell, AuroraDawn



College textbooks have become so expensive they ought to jump out and defend you.



"If there are no dogs in heaven, then when I die I want to go where they went." - Will Rogers

by Kentucky DeanDemocrat on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 01:46:59 PM PST

  
 
 
  [ Parent ] 
    
   

 
 
 






  This has to stop!
(0+ / 0-)


Another white red-neck gun-nut shooting kids trying to study in a library--many of them minority and poor.
This has to stop! The Republicans want every poor person and every person of color dead!



by socialjusticesue on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 12:30:19 PM PST








  Sorry to deny you the pleasure of stereotyped
(6+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
Kentucky DeanDemocrat, Skyprogress, craiger, Wee Mama, Mopshell, AuroraDawn



outrage, but the shooter was a graduate of FSU. He was a member of the NM Bar and worked for District Attorney's office in Las Cruces (I don't know whether or not he was a Republican):
http://www.koat.com/...
So unless you think bar association + university graduate = redneck, the meme does not hold.
Btw, I do share your outrage at the carnage guns are wreaking on our society, but I think we have to admit the problem extends way beyond convenient classifications.



Jan4insight Handmade Gallery on Zibbet > 100% Hobby-Lobby Free!

by jan4insight on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 01:37:24 PM PST

  
 
 
  [ Parent ] 
    
   

 
 
 





  Jan4insight is correct...
(0+ / 0-)


white red-neck gun-nut shooting
We may have our fair share of white gun-totting rednecks in this country, but they aren't responsible for every shooting. They aren't all right-wing, either.
Myron May was a college graduate. He was a lawyer. He was mentally ill. And he was black.
You were wrong on all counts. He was not a redneck. Not a gun nut. Not white. Just a sad statistic in a nation that often allows even people with severe mental and emotional problems to legally purchase and possess semi-automatic weapons.
Police have said that May, 31, a Florida State graduate, was in a paranoia-fueled "state of crisis" when he showed up to the library with a .380 semiautomic pistol, shot three people and was then killed by cops when he would not drop the weapon.
His social media activity revealed that he believed he was a "targeted individual," the term used by people who think the government and shadowy gangs are attacking them with mind control and invisible, remote weapons...
"He told me he just didn't want to go on living like this," Mitchell said. She said that after their initial conversations, she became wary of May, concerned that he might be what she called an "impostor." May continued to try to contact her and left three voicemails between 9:19 p.m. and 9:42 p.m. ET Wednesday, she said.
"I am currently being cooked in my chair. I devised a scheme where I was going to expose this once and for all and I really need you," he said in one of the messages, which was provided to NBC News and authenticated by a relative as May's voice. "I do not want to die in vain."




So small town sheriff departments have tanks and sound cannons but a hospital in Dallas doesn't have hazmat suits? ~ Tina Dupuy

by AuroraDawn on Fri Nov 21, 2014 at 02:39:31 PM PST

  
 
 
  [ Parent ] 
    
   

 
 
 






  Match that, iPads! 
(4+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
here4tehbeer, afisher, bitpyr8, Mopshell






"The extinction of the human race will come from its inability to EMOTIONALLY comprehend the exponential function." -- Edward Teller

by lgmcp on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 12:39:49 PM PST







  Glad he is ok - lucky it was handgun
(3+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
Kentucky DeanDemocrat, craiger, AuroraDawn



This is another case of not every gun being equivalent.
If the shooter was using an assault rifle rather than a handgun, that bullet would have gone clean thru.
Every time there is a shooting, somebody trots out false equivalence.
No a knife is not equal to a gun.  No a bolt action rifle is not equal to a semi-auto.  No a handgun is not equal to an assault rifle.



by jello5929 on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 02:24:52 PM PST







  This is why we can't switch to ebooks!
(1+ / 0-)


Recommended by:
AuroraDawn



I bet he's glad his books are as thick as they are. That's a pretty extreme form of literary criticism. It reminds me of the scene in The Jerk where a sniper shoots at Steve Martin's character:
Navin R. Johnson: He hates these cans. Stay away from the cans.
It also reminds me we have way too many guns in this country.

  


La majestueuse égalité des lois, qui interdit au riche comme au pauvre de coucher sous les ponts, de mendier dans les rues, et de voler du pain.

by dconrad on Thu Nov 20, 2014 at 02:46:27 PM PST







   (0 / 0)


by you on soon
If this is OK, click Post:  
			
Or you may make changes below and Preview again, or Cancel this comment.






Post Comment
You must enter a subject for your comment.
Subject:

Comment:

URL:
http://
Label:
 Image 


     
			 




Close

Permalink




Gooserock, susans, BlackSheep1, annrose, splashy, HeyMikey, maybeeso in michigan, markdd, shaharazade, devis1, gloriana, dconrad, Youffraita, Cassandra Waites, Liberal Of Limeyland, maggiejean, fiercefilms, annieli, AuroraDawn, bakeneko, Pinto Pony, IndieGuy, jan4insight, belinda ridgewood, HedwigKos, Ree Zen, Incredulousinusa, bobcat41702, CWinebrinner




Subscribe or

Donate to support Daily Kos.












Diary Recommended By


Gooserock, susans, BlackSheep1, annrose, splashy, HeyMikey, maybeeso in michigan, markdd, shaharazade, devis1, gloriana, dconrad, Youffraita, Cassandra Waites, Liberal Of Limeyland, maggiejean, fiercefilms, annieli, AuroraDawn, bakeneko, Pinto Pony, IndieGuy, jan4insight, belinda ridgewood, HedwigKos, Ree Zen, Incredulousinusa, bobcat41702, CWinebrinner


(Load)


Recommended by Jen Hayden

 Video: Voting Rights Chokes Up New MN Secretary Of State
Minnesota's new Secretary of State Steve Simon is passionate about voting rights. So passionate he got choked up when speaking about the upcoming 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act.

Simon ...
by mmcintee



			    13 comments
			  

 32 Recs


 DKos community can be proud of its many progressive achievements in 2014The triumphant smiles of Doug, Jesse & Catherine Snodgrass at Jesse's high school graduation

While reading dsnodgrass 's recent diary thanking ...
by navajo



			    61 comments
			  

 130 Recs


 Adieu, Monsieur Colbert: remembering his finest hourNation,

The Colbert Report is closing up shop this week after a stellar 9-year run that saw its host consistently and brilliantly skewer pompous, ignorant, self-righteous, irrationally fearful, ...
by occams hatchet



			    163 comments
			  

 318 Recs


 The Real Jeff Roorda, Behind the St. Louis Police Officer AssociationSometimes, people pop up to make statements about things and you have that Hagrid moment of "I Should Not Have Done That".  Yesterday was a prime example as Jeff Roorda popped back up with the St. ...
by tmservo433



			    110 comments
			  

 363 Recs


 All police shootings are "assaults on law enforcement" in Ferguson grand juryI'm reviewing the grand jury transcripts released last night, and they are simply amazing. Here's my favorite exchange so far to illustrate the deeply embedded biases that exist in our culture when ...
by Blue Illini



			    78 comments
			  

 148 Recs


 Olbermann still breaking O’Reilly's chopsWell, it's great to see Keith happy and doing his thing again. Bill O was "World’s Worst Person in Sports" yesterday for going on ESPN radio and repeating lies about how great an athlete he was, ...
by I give in to sin



			    44 comments
			  

 94 Recs


 Over 178,000 Daily Kos members demand Harry Reid and Senate Democrats 'do their job'







On the morning after Election Day—as we struggled to get out of bed from very depressing results—Daily Kos staff launched a petition demanding that Harry Reid and Senate Democrats use ...
by Carissa Miller



			    18 comments
			  

 47 Recs


 Cartoon: Low-information nation: Midterm elections edition 
(Click to enlarge)

A couple articles inspired this cartoon. First, this piece from ...
by Jen Sorensen



			    112 comments
			  

 130 Recs


 Kansas C!U!A! Event: Your County Party.  Organizing KansasThe question I've been asked after my dressing down of what went wrong in Kansas is how do we really fix this?  How do we build a party that makes people want to invest time and effort into it?  How ...
by tmservo433



			    24 comments
			  

 35 Recs


 No Scapegoats.  Time to Face Facts.It doesn't matter how great your marketing campaign is.  You can't sell your dog food if the dogs won't eat it.

---Old Madison Avenue proverb

So here we are once more.  Another electoral drubbing ...
by Dallasdoc



			    967 comments
			  

 705 Recs




Next







Jen Hayden's Tags

No current results.



Jen Hayden's Blogroll

No current results.









Browse Tags

Civil Rights
Community
Congress
Culture
Economy
Education
Elections
Energy
Environment
Health Care
International
Labor
Law
Media
Meta
National Security
Science
Transportation
White House



© Kos Media, LLC Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified
“Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC
Privacy Policy



Daily Kos Network

Daily Kos
Comics
Elections

DKTV
RSS


Mother Talkers
Street Prophets
Congress Matters


About

Masthead
History
Writers
Frequently Asked Questions
Endorsements


Advertise

Advertising Overview
Visits and Other Stats for Advertisers


Store

Shirts


Contact

Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs





 















Click here for the mobile view of the site
















