Florida State football recruit camp: Day 1 FSU recap - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State football recruit camp: Day 1 FSU recap - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







×
Connect with Tomahawk Nation










Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Football


Florida State football recruit camp: Day 1 FSU recap

    By Bud Elliott


@SBNRecruiting


    on Jul 16 2014, 7:17p

    

101











Stacy Revere







Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




101


      Comments
    




I have limited time to put this together so I'll be brief. FSU again had its players out coaching, and this time it included more enrolled freshmen. The guys FSU signed last class were huge. At one point, I had a laugh with some other writers about how Alex Torres (6'4, 290) looked tiny, but we realized he was standing next to players who are 6'7 (Rick Leonard, Roderick Johnson) and 6'8 (Brock Ruble).
FSU's camp is absolutely ridiculously loaded. I don't think any school in the country will bring in more talent over a three-day period than this week in Tallahassee (OK, maybe Alabama).





QB
Quarterback was all about underclassmen Wednesday.
The No. 1 dual-threat QB of 2016 (Malik Henry, of California) and the No. 1 pro-style QB (Jacob Eason, of Washington), were in attendance. Neither worked out, but bother were shown around and received considerable attention from coaches. Henry is a bit thicker than when I saw him in Los Angeles in January, and Eason is a very big kid. Their throwing will be the highlight of Thursday's session. How about that -- the No. 1 QBs at both spots at the same camp at the same time.
QB Dwayne Haskins has already left campus after his visit Tuesday. I'll catch up with him for an interview next week, if possible.
QB Jake Zembiec, of New York, looked pretty good and it's easy to see why he has double-digit offers. I spoke with his dad for a bit. FSU has not offered at this point. I also liked Matt Dame, of Suncoast, and Avery McCall. FSU has not offered either player.
RB
I didn't spot anyone who stood out as an FSU-quality running back. Of course, there is a chance I would have missed someone.





WR
Surprise! Pompano Beach (Fla.) Monarch Alabama commits Calvin Ridley (five-star) and Shawn Burgess-Becker (four-star, who I like at safety better) both showed up. FSU continues to recruit the pair hard, and it's a good sign for Seminoles fans that they made the trip. Neither worked out, but they did hang out with the coaches and FSU freshman receiver Travis Rudolph.
Underclassmen: Tavares (T.J.) Chase looked very good and I expect FSU to offer at the end of his multiple-day stay. Remember, Chase is a big-time talent and a big FSU fan. And Drake Davis, a Louisiana kid who has transferred to a military academy in Virginia, looked great at 6'4, 210. Again, I would expect FSU to offer Davis at the end of his performance, as Alabama recently pulled the trigger.
TE
I didn't spot anyone who stood out as an FSU-quality tight end. Of course, there is a chance I would have missed someone.
OL
FSU commit David Robbins is in town with his father. An interesting note on him is that he doesn't turn 18 until next June. He is a tough player at guard or center and I expect him to work out tomorrow.
FSU target Christian Pellage continues to get bigger. It is crazy to think that the Brooksville (Fla.) Nature Coast product was once 230 pounds. Pellage will be working with coach Trickett for all three days, I believe. I try to catch up with prospects on the day they leave so they're discussing the biggest possible sample set of visit experience.

Christian Pellage on the drive block. https://t.co/jl5OfjTC0p
— TomahawkNation.com (@TomahawkNation) July 16, 2014




Washington (D.C.) Friendship Academy lineman Quarvez Boulware, who I don't think holds an FSU offer, looked good as well. I interviewed Boulware and will have that tomorrow on SB Nation.
DC-area OL Matt Burrell, who some have listed as a tackle but who I think is a guard, is also in town for three days. He was hanging out with Jimbo Fisher, and the four-star has great size (FSU offered very early).
Colton Sander, of Oviedo, isn't necessarily an FSU-quality player, but he had a nice day and has good size. Some D1 program should get a good one.
Stewart Reese, of Ft. Pierce, is a 2016 offensive lineman I'll be watching. He's huge at 6'6, 315+.
DL
I didn't spot anyone who stood out as an FSU-quality defensive lineman. Of course, there is a chance I would have missed someone.
LB
I didn't spot anyone who stood out as an FSU-quality linebacker. Of course, there is a chance I would have missed someone.
DB
FSU commitment A.J. Westbrook worked mostly at safety, but I didn't get to see him all that much and will reserve stating any opinion until I see his Thursday and Friday performance (sample set issue).
Four-star safety Jaquan Johnson was also at the camp. Texas CB Holton Hill came and has already exited campus. Ryan Pulley, of Cape Coral (Fla.) Island Coast had a pretty nice day and it's easy to see why Michigan State is so high on him.
Underclassmen: Trayvon Mullen, of Coconut Creek, looked quite good and has the height FSU likes at corner. His teammate, Malek Young, also had a nice day but is not nearly as big. I'd expect Mullen to get an offer, but am less sure about Young.
I spotted J.J. Givens in the stretch lines, but didn't get to see much of him during the camp. Virginia Tech offered Givens recently.
Overall
FSU had some nice visitors that I didn't expect (Ridley, Burgess-Becker, Boulware), and so far, they don't seem to have any disappointing cancellations. I'll take your questions in the comment section, as will Dustin Tackett, who helped me compile this report.



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




101


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State football recruiting: Jimbo Fisher football camp updates



Jul 20

              93 comments
          

Huge commitment for FSU



Jul 16

              101 comments
          

Florida State football recruit camp: Day 1 FSU recap



Jul 16

              74 comments
          

Florida State football recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Wednesday Updates


19 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































