Florida State Football Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Day 1 Recap - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State Football Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Day 1 Recap - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Football


Florida State Football Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Day 1 Recap

    By Bud Elliott


@SBNRecruiting


    on Jul 17 2013, 6:58p

    

60











Christian Pellage - Bud Elliott (SB Nation)






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook










Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




60


      Comments
    




Day  of Florida State's Jimbo Fisher Football Camp is in the books, and plenty of top recruits were on hand. Not all worked out, however, which is typical. In our recap, we will note who showed up for the afternoon session, and will tell you who stood out. Later, Stephen Fenech and Spencer Willis will be by to add details about the players they individually watched.
Quarterback
Feleipe Franks, of Wakulla (Fla.) is a surefire superstar QB recruit at 6'4 and 180 pounds in the class of 2016. He threw the ball well all day. FSU has not offered as of yet, but an offer would not be surprising. -BE





FSU 2015 QB commit De'Andre Johnson, of Jacksonville (Fla.) First Coast was also there, but did not work out. -BE
Running Back
Superstar 2015 RB Jacquez Patrick, of Orlando (Fla.) Timber Creek enjoyed the experience, but did not work out. He has a flight tomorrow up north for an Under Armour event, but said that he will also camp at Ohio State and may make the Michigan BBQ event. I personally think Patrick will end up in the SEC. -BE
Daryl Dunlap, running back class of 2014, had been solid. Verbally committed to San Diego state, Dunlap has stood out thus far in running back drills due to his size 6'2" and 220 pounds. -SF
Wide Receiver
Keith Gavin, a 2016 receiver out of Wakulla, was also quite impressive. He was working with the younger group for whatever reason, and belonged with the older players. Gavin already holds offers from FSU, UF and Clemson. -BE
Gilbert Johnson, a Georgia commit out of Miami (Fla.) Southridge looked pretty good. I spoke with him, and while he has recently visited Auburn and FSU, he is very solid to UGA because of his relationship with the Georgia coaches. -BE





Tight End
Mike Gesicki, of Manahawkin (N.J.) Southern Regional High School was very good. I was initially quite skeptical, given his long legs, because tight end is about being quick in short spaces, not being fast over longer distances with short strides. However, he showed he absolutely can move laterally. I spoke with Gesicki's dad, who said that he really enjoyed his visit. Most think the 6'5, 225-pounder will pick Ohio State, but his father said that Penn State and Wisconsin are also in the race, along with OSU and FSU. Tim Brewster was all over Gesicki. -BE
Davi'on Riley, of Lake Wales (Fla.) Impressed me with his body control. The 6'2, 210-pounder isn't Florida State quality, but he will play football in some BCS offense, as a pass-catching H-Back. He claims offers from Miami, Oregon, Tennessee and Wisconsin. The question will be how big he can get. -BE
Offensive Line
Christian Pellage, of Brooksville (Fla.) Nature Coast stood out to Spencer Willis. Willis will be along later to update us on what the 6'6, 250-pound 2015 offensive tackle did well.
FSU commit Alec Eberle, of Mechancsville (Va.) Atlee High School (outside Richmond) showed up in great shape at 6'4 and 279 pounds. He did not work out today, but does plan to tomorrow. He is loving his visit to Tallahassee so far, and has been working on his snapping in order to play center. It appears that FSU got a good one with its early offer here.
Derrick Kelly Jr., of Havana (Fla.) East Gadsen, also attended, but did not work out. He is extremely solid to Kentucky, and somewhat took offense when I asked him about a few other schools. He does not hold an FSU offer, and I doubt one will come if he does not elect to work out.
Defensive End
Rick Leonard, of Middletown (Md.) was the best prospect working out Tuesday. Spencer Willis saw him more than I did, and will have more on him later, but it's pretty well known that Leonard is down to Clemson and FSU. Willis told me that he moved extremely well for a 6'7, 250-pound man.  There is no way that he should be rated as a three-star. -BE
Speaking of Leonard, FSU defensive end commit Blake McClain, of Jacksonville (Fla.) Sandalwood, was working Leonard pretty hard and is optimistic that the Seminoles can land him. As always, McClain loves visiting FSU. -BE
Defensive Tackle
Adam Torres, of Lake Mary (Fla.) High School was in attendance. He is extremely well put together. Torres did not work out, but he did watch the defensive line reps, which jives with FSU recruiting him on the defensive line. -BE
Linebacker
I'm told FSU commit Delvin Purifoy was on hand on the sideline, but did not see him. He did not work out. -BE
Defensive Back
Kendall Sawyer, of Lehigh Acres (Fla.) East Lee High School was the best corner on the day. Coach Jeremy Pruitt made him take a bunch of reps, and watched him intently. Based on the praise, Pruitt liked his press technique, but did not like Sawyer quitting on some reps once beaten. Sawyer holds an FSU "offer." I asked him if he was thinking about committing, and he said maybe, but that he would have to speak with his parents. But he then told me that he likes FSU, Ole Miss, Miami, West Virginia and USF. He has not visited the two out-of-state schools, and will do so later in the year, via his official visits. Sawyer also said intends to take all of his official visits. It wouldn't shock me if he committed (he is camping all week), and it wouldn't shock me if he waits until National Signing Day.  -BE
Chris Jones, of Jacksonville (Fla.) Sandalwood might not have been as good as he was in June, but he was still good. He holds some MAC, Big East and lesser Big Ten offers, and is a good player. At this point I do not see an FSU offer coming. -BE
Nigel Edmonds, of Atlanta (Ga.) Westminster, was an impressive 2016 freshman corner to whom coach Pruitt paid a lot of attention -SF, SW.
Romeo Finley, of Ft. Walton Beach (Fla.) impressed as well. He is a solid 2016 safety prospect at 6'1 or 6'2 and about 190 pounds.
BE = Bud Elliott, SF = Stephen Fenech, SW = Spencer Wills.



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




60


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State football recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp July Session



Jul 19

              174 comments
          

Jonathan Vickers commits to Florida State: Noles land versatile running back



Jul 17

              60 comments
          

Florida State Football Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Day 1 Recap



Jul 17

              154 comments
          

Florida State football recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp July Session Preview & Updates


6 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







In This Article
Teams


Florida State Seminoles




Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































