Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Defense Recap - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Defense Recap - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Football


Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Defense Recap

    By Bud Elliott


@SBNRecruiting


    on Jul 19 2013, 2:03a

    

21











Jacob Pugh keeps getting bigger without losing speed or athleticism. Scary. - Bud Elliott






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook










Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




21


      Comments
    




Day 2 of Florida State's Jimbo Fisher football camp is in the books, and Tomahawk Nation has all of your recruiting updates thanks to our team of Stephen Fenech, Spencer Wills and Kasey Dixon. As always, I'll break it down by position for organizational purposes. Please feel free to ask any questions you may have.
The question entering the camp was whether FSU could get the South Florida players up -- something that did not happen in June. The question has been answered, and it's a definite yes. Booker T. and Miami Central, the two South Florida powerhouses who were notably absent in June showed up in force, and Central brought 18 players. Members of Miami Northwestern, Southridge and St. Thomas Aquinas also made the trip.





Defensive End
Chad Thomas, of Miami Booker T. Washington was in attendance, and was great. FSU's coaches and players were all over him. Earlier, I posted a video of him dominating and putting a 2015 tackle on his ass. I spoke with Thomas after the camp. 
"Coach Sunseri is a great coach. He taught us a lot in a little bit of time," Thomas said. Thomas explained that Sunseri gets after it, and wants everything done right, even the small things. Thomas appreciated that Sunseri would show how the drill was done, and aggressively showed how to do it right in positioning Thomas. 
"It was nice," Thomas said of Florida State. 
Fellow Booker T. player and FSU commitment Treon Harris is recruiting Thomas to FSU. 
"I thought about it. It made me think," Thomas said of Harris' commitment to FSU. 





Thomas is an excellent trombone player, and actually attends the New World School in Miami for music. Since the New World School doesn't have football, Thomas plays for Booker T. Because of this, a strong music school and program could be a major factor in his recruitment. 
Thomas claims no leaders. He did enjoy his recent visits to Alabama and Miami as well. Thomas was impressed by Alabama's campus and facilities. Alabama extended an offer to Thomas, which shows his ability to play rush linebacker as well as defensive end. Thomas also described Miami as "nice," which is what he had to say about Florida State. 
Distance won't be a huge factor in Thomas' decision, which will come in January, but he doesn't want to go too far from home, and will stay in the Southeast. 
Garrett Wiliams, of the First Academy in Orlando is an impressive player as a 2015 recruit. He's 6'4 and about 225 pounds, and also plays tight end. He spoke with Spencer Wills. 
On the Campus and the coaches:

"I love it here, the coaches are phenomenal"

Being recruited as both a TE and a DE currently, depends on how he develops physically over the next few years, but he prefers defensive end. 
Schools he's interested in:

"Definitely looking at Florida State, Clemson, and Tennessee."

What he looks for in a school:

"School wise, an environment I can fit into, definitely need the presence of a Christian family on campus. Football wise, a system that I fit well into and coaches that I can work well with."

Defensive Tackle
FSU commitment Demarcus Christmas was dominant in 1-on-1 reps. He really doesn't seem to like interviews too much. Interview recap: He's committed, he's working hard and is in great shape, he's not going to enroll early, and he really enjoyed working with O'Dell Haggins, and knows that Haggins puts a lot of players into the NFL. 

Christmas was actually happy to take the picture. 
Darius Smalls, who I covered yesterday, was again good. He's just so overweight right now, and it hinders his ability to show how good he can be. He's a 2015 DT from Jacksonville Sandalwood. 
Linebacker
 


FSU commitments Kain Daub and Jacob Pugh were the top two prospects. Both are total studs. Pugh just keeps getting bigger (235 pounds), but is keeping his athleticism. It's scary. Really scary. Pugh also played some tight end Thursday, and dominated. He is way too big and fast for anyone at the camp. FSU commit Delvin Purifoy was also attending, but didn't work out. He is well put together. 
FSU is very set at linebacker, and I am unsure if it will take another. 
Defensive Back
Quickly, because it is 1:30 and I am headin to bed.
Kendarius Webster, an FSU CB target out of Georgia did show up, but didn't work out. He's very good, and FSU does have a shot, but will battle Ole Miss and Georgia. 
Kendall Sawyer again worked out. I remain unconvinced that he is a take for FSU at this time. 
I do not expect FSU to offer Nigel Bethel (formerly Nigel Patten), of Booker T. FSU is loaded at corner, and Bethel is not that big. Similarly, Clearwater Countryside's Mike Johnson is a good player, but I do not see his offer becoming committable anytime soon. Johnson and Bethel are both undersized, and I don't think they are so talented as to necessitate the FSU staff overlooking the lack of size. 
Deion Singleton, of Godby, is a corner/safety, and while he's not likely FSU quality, showed well Thursday in coverage, according to Stephen Fenech. 



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




21


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State football recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp July Session



Jul 19

              174 comments
          

Jonathan Vickers commits to Florida State: Noles land versatile running back



Jul 19

              21 comments
          

Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Defense Recap



Jul 19

              21 comments
          

Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap


6 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







In This Article
Teams


Florida State Seminoles




Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































