Florida State and North Carolina: Tourney Preview & Game Thread - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State and North Carolina: Tourney Preview & Game Thread - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Baseball


Florida State and North Carolina: Tourney Preview & Game Thread

    By RaysnNoles


@RodMahoney


    on May 21 2014, 3:28p

    

404











Ryan Syrkus






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook






The 4th ranked Florida State Seminoles (41-14, 21-9) took two of three from the North Carolina Tar Heels (33-23, 15-15) earlier this season and face them tonight at 7PM in the first game of pool play.




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




404


      Comments
    




The Seminoles played extremely well the first time they faced the Tar Heels less than two weeks ago. The Noles shutout North Carolina in game one, limited them to just two runs in game two but lost the final game by a 5-4 score. Florida State is in good position today because of the tight four hour game that the Heels played yesterday to advance. In that game North Carolina used five of their best arms including their best reliever (3.1 IP, 74 pitchers) and their ace Trent Thornton (2.0 IP, 28 pitches). Three other of their top arms threw the other 3.2 innings and could be available today if needed since North Carolina has tomorrow off. I would expect them to be rested though with the possibility the Tar Heels could play three more games after today.
Before we get into the preview I enjoyed watching this video (yes its dumb) that was released today starring starting pitcher Luke Weaver...






OFFENSE:
The North Carolina offense scores a run and a half less than Florida State and are scoring more than two full runs less than last season's team. As a team they are have an on-base percentage 40 points lower than last season and only have two players with an OBP of .400 or greater, Noles have five. The Heels power numbers are also significantly down, a 68 point drop from last season with only two hitters slugging over .400, Noles have four.
Not surprisingly the Noles have the best offense in the conference and one of the best in the country. They score a full run more than any other team, have the highest OBP, highest slugging and walk the most out of any team in the ACC. Watching yesterday's games being broadcast you heard announcers and coaches make the excuses that a team had a down year because of injuries and youth, it truly is remarkable that Florida State can remain constantly elite and never have to use those excuses.

Shortstop Michael Russell (.343/.429/.505) is the Heels best hitter and just picked up a 2nd Team All ACC honor, his bat was held in check earlier this season as he only had one hit in the series. Somehow Tom Zengel (.261/.321/.428) picked up a 3rd Team All ACC honor, the DH has struck out 30 times on the season with just 13 walks. Link to UNC Offensive Stats, sortable and split.





Four Florida State hitters picked up All ACC honors with DJ Stewart (.362/.478/.588) earning Offensive Player of the Year leading the league in batting , on-base and slugging. First baseman John Nogowski (.309/.438/.460) and thrid baseman Jose Brizuela (.325/.411/.443) were also named to the 1st Team with Josh Delph (.275/.388/.365) grabbing a 3rd Team. Link to FSU Offensive Stats, sortable and split.
PITCHING:

The pitching staff for North Carolina is the strength of their team this season, particularly their bullpen. As mentioned earlier though their key contributors were used yesterday in a must win scenario which means that they could be rested today and tomorrow in preparation for their remaining games. On the other hand the Heels are fighting for a spot in regionals so they may go all out and treat each game as if it is their last. Link to UNC Pitching Stats, sortable and split.
Florida State has had another great year under Mike Bell especially considering the injuries that they have suffered. Their season success has been very comparable to that of the Heels and as mentioned before they did a great job of shutting down the North Carolina earlier this season. Starting pitchers Luke Weaver and Mike Compton accounted for over half the innings pitched in that series but no way will they be expected to see any action which means it's up to the bullpen to contribute today. That bullpen has been shaky the past few weeks, in the last three series they have thrown 40.2 IP with 25 walks and 22 strikeouts, that has to get better if the Noles are to have success this week and moving into the postseason. Link to FSU Pitching Stats, sortable and split.

The right hander for North Carolina has had some success as a midweek starter and relief pitcher. However his opponents, Elon, George Mason, Coastal Carolina, ECU (twice) and Gardner Webb are nowhere near the caliber of Florida State and I assume he will have his struggles against a lineup full of left handed bats. This is not a matchup that favors Cherry, as mentioned the Noles have the best offense in the conference and the righty has an extremely low K rate and an extremely high walk rate. Even if the Noles don't score with frequency against him I expect them to work the count and force him to exit the game early.
It has been two months since the left handed Strode made a start for Florida State. In the time since he has made eight relief appearances including two against North Carolina where he pitched 3.1 innings allowing 1 run on 2 hits with 1 strikeout and 2 walks. Like his counterpart tonight he gets himself into trouble with walks, fortunately he has been able to control those for the most part recently. He has issued zero walks in five of those most recent outings with 3 of the 6 walks allowed coming in a 3.2 innings stint against Minnesota.

COVERAGE:

Wednesday night's game will air live on FS Florida on DirecTV and DISH Network and on cable only in Tallahassee. ESPN3 will cover the game throughout the state of Florida. Check your local listings for the carrier of the game outside the state of Florida.

This was the official statement from Florida State regarding the broadcast of tonight's game which contradicts what ESPN3 currently has on their blackout map. If the game is in fact aired it will unfortunately be brought to you by one of the worst baseball personalities I have ever listened to in Nick Belmonte. Luckily for fans the other announcing crew will have the call tonight, Dan Bonner and Wes Durham while not great they're better than the alternative.
Here is your ESPN3 link and the link to live stats. This article will serve as the game thread and we will have the play-by-play below, please remember no posting of pictures or embedded tweets.
Florida State is the better overall team, the entire team is rested especially the pitching staff. The Seminoles looks to snap their seven game losing streak over the past three tournaments and I think that happens tonight.
Go Noles!



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




404


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
ACC Baseball Tournament Stream



May 24

              205 comments
          

Florida State and Virginia: Tourney Preview & Game Thread



May 21

              404 comments
          

Florida State and North Carolina: Tourney Preview & Game Thread



May 20

              158 comments
          

ACC Baseball Tournament: Game Updates


4 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































