Florida State University student shows off book that stopped Myron May's bullets | Daily Mail Online
Florida State University student shows off book that stopped Myron May's bullets | Daily Mail Online



























 













 Home




 U.K.



 
 

News




 Sports




 U.S. Showbiz




 Australia




 Femail




 Health




 Science




 Money




 Video




 Travel




 Columnists







News Home


Arts


Headlines


Pictures


Most read


News Board


Wires



My Profile
Logout



Login













Feedback








DailyMail






 






 show ad

























	1.5k
      
shares












Saudi Arabia buries its king: Thousands gather in Mecca as King Abdullah is laid to rest in Riyadh after losing battle with pneumonia 





EXCLUSIVE: Father of boy who says he made up memoir of time in heaven now accused of profiting from 'scam' - after mother fought for years to prove book about paradise was a lie





The 29-point DEATH test: From slow walking speed to exhaustion, doctors' check list spots patients most at risk of dying within 30 days





Alec Baldwin leaps to Seth Rogen's defence as comedian is forced into new apology over American Sniper criticism 





Is turbulence dangerous and can storms 'drag down' a plane? Pilots reveal the truth behind most common flight myths





Cook bacon with an iron, cut cheese with dental floss and use your drawer as a cutting board: 50 culinary hacks to make you look like a pro in the kitchen revealed





How's your first wife, Mr President? Obama gives disastrous interview to woman who eats Fruit Loops from a bathtub as his bid to get down with the digital kids backfires





All aboard the 'Lolita Express': Flight logs reveal the many trips Bill Clinton and Alan Dershowitz took on pedophile Jeffrey Epstein's private jet with anonymous women





Back to the day job: Prince Andrew continues to 'focus on his work' hours after dismissing 'sex slave' claims at Davos





Hard to swallow: Big Macs now cost $7.50 each in Switzerland... and that doesn't include fries and a drink





Fired US McDonald's workers allege racial discrimination claiming supervisors repeatedly complained 'there are too many black people in the store' 





Inside the town Warren Jeffs left behind: Community at center of FLDS cult split between defectors embracing the outside world, and loyalists still in his thrall





'This will bring an end to inequalities girls and women face globally': Emma Watson addresses leaders at the World Economic Forum about new UN Women campaign





Northeast's first 'significant' winter storm set to bring MORE snow and ice on Friday night





Is GUM better than flossing? 10 minutes of chewing can remove 100 MILLION bacteria from your mouth, study claims





Is your make-up poisoning you? Miranda Kerr's beauty guru claims she lost her memory and hair at the hands of 'toxic' products





Did ISIS doctor the footage of Japanese hostages? Experts say shadows of the three men point in different directions... suggesting they were filmed separately





Revealed - how new Saudi King 'raised cash for Mujahideen', has a son who went into space and will need a 'shadow regent' because of his wandering mind





Britian's Queen Elizabeth is now the world's oldest monarch after the death of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia at the age of 90





Beauty queens at war: Now Miss Lebanon claims Miss Israel 'chased her for days' before ambushing her in Miss Universe selfie that sparked outrage in her country





Saudi blogger sentenced to 1,000 lashes may not be flogged again and could have ten-year prison sentence reduced 'according to country's ambassador in Germany'





Air strikes 'have killed 6,000 Isis fighters, including half of the top command': U.S. ambassador to Iraq says military effort is having 'devastating' impact





Flags at half mast and fawning praise for a King 'loved by his people' sparks furious backlash in Britain over rule which saw 'death by stoning' for adultery and regular beheadings





Pictured: The four cousins who perished in mystery blaze during sleepover at their grandparents' $9million Maryland mansion




Previous
Next








Florida State University shooter told former friend he was sending her mystery package and ex that government was watching him as he showed increasingly erratic behavior prior to incident
Myron May, 31, opened fire at Florida State University, injuring three before being shot dead He was a school alumnus who graduated and became a lawyer  In his journal he wrote that he 'feared being targeted by the government' and a former girlfriend says she believed he had a 'severe mental disorder'Former girlfriend also claimed May said his home and car were being bugged A former roommate says she received a Facebook message from May the day before the shooting, telling her she should expect a package in the mailBy

Wills Robinson


and 
Chris Spargo for MailOnline


Published:
  01:45 EST, 20 November 2014

 | 
Updated:
  11:21 EST, 21 November 2014





















1.5k
shares

 
         703
View  comments



Florida State University shooter Myron May displayed increasingly erratic behavior in the days leading up to Thursday's incident, even telling a former roommate she would be getting a 'mystery package.' The roommate, who asked not to be identified, said she received a Facebook message just one day before the shooting to let her know something was in the mail.'I have no idea what it could be,' she told FoxNews.com.Also, According to a Las Cruces, New Mexico, police report last month, May was a subject of a harassment complaint after a former girlfriend called to report he came to her home uninvited and claimed police were bugging his house and car. Danielle Nixon told police May recently developed 'a severe mental disorder.''Myron began to ramble and handed her a piece to a car and asked her to keep it because this was a camera that police had put in his vehicle,' the report said.The report also said May recently quit his job and was on medication. 
 
Suspect: Law enforcement revealed that the shooter was lawyer Myron May, who graduated from Florida State in 2005. He was planning to take the Florida bar in February  
 
Erratic behavior: Ex Danielle Nixon (above) says that May thought the government was spying on him Two students and an employee were wounded in the attack by gunman Myron May, a lawyer convinced that the government was 'targeting him', who opened fire at 12.30am on Thursday morning.The paranoid 31-year-old, who officials said was in a 'state of crisis' at the time, was then shot dead by police outside of the Stozier library which was full of students studying for their exams. Since the incident police have unearthed journals and videos that showed May believed he was being targeted. A former girlfriend also believes that he had developed a severe mental disorder and was taking medication. Jason Derfuss was walking out of the building when he was shot in the back. However he did not know he had been hit until his roommate emptied his bag at home.He found bullet holes in two of the books he had checked out just minutes before the rampage. Scroll down for video  
Escape: Student Jason Derfuss posted a picture of a book he was carrying in his back pack at the time of the shooting at Florida State University in Tallahassee. He believes it saved his life  
 Fortunate: One of the bullets ended up being lodged in one of the pages of a book. He had checked out the books minutes before he was shot and did not realize he had been targeted until around three hours later   
 Problems: He had been staying at a guest house in the days leading up to the shooting and had reportedly been having financial difficulties   
 The shooting happened just after midnight on Thursday at the Strozier library, located on the Tallahassee, Florida campus of the popular university  
 A Tallahassee police officer talks to students outside the Strozier library on the Florida State University campus where a gunman injured two people before being shot by police officers




Terrifying moment students in FSU Library alerted of shooting













He wrote on his Facebook: 'Earlier tonight there was a shooting at FSU, right as I was leaving Strozier. I didn't know this at the time, but the Shooter targeted me first. The shot I heard behind me I did not feel, nor did it hit me at all. 'He was about five feet from me, but he hit my books. Books one minute earlier I had checked out of the library, books that should not have stopped the bullet. But they did. I learned this about three hours after it happened, I never thought to check my bag. 'I assumed I wasn't a target, I assumed I was fine. The truth is I was almost killed tonight and God intervened. I know conceptually He can do all things, but to physically witness the impossible and to be surrounded by such grace is indescribable. To God be the glory, forever and ever, Amen.'


RELATED ARTICLES

Previous
1
Next






Officer who shot dead Michael Brown 'confident he won't face...



University of Virginia student details alleged gang rape by...



Parents of aid worker Peter Kassig beheaded by ISIS tweet...



Principal suspended over unannounced school shooting 'drill'...





Share this article
Share
1.5k shares



At a press conference on Thurday, Tallahassee police chief Michael DeLeo said they had discovered a journal May had written in and a number of videos he featured in. According to his notes he claimed he was being targeted by the government, leading police to believed he was in a 'state of crisis' at the time of the shooting.  Last week he wrote on the Facebook page of the group conspiracy theory group Targeted Individuals International saying: 'Has anyone ever been encouraged by your handler to kill with a promise of freedom. 'He also posted a video about Remote Neural Monitoring - a technique that involves monitoring someone's brain from a different location.  However there is still no indication as to why he chose to return to the university and why he decided to attack. May had been working for the DA in Las Cruces, New Meixo, before deciding to move back to Tallahassee. His old boss Mark D'Antonio said the last time he spoke to May he put his arm around him and asked if he was okay. May replied: 'It's going great'.A few days later D'Antonio found a resignation letter on May's desk without any notice.  Abigail Taunton, who runs a foster home in the Florida Panhandle, said that May had recently been staying at a guest house she owns for around three weeks and was preparing to file for bankruptcy. She said police interviewed her husband, David, after the shooting.   
 Video footage from a student inside the library at the time appears to show one student who was shot in the leg  
 Paranoid: May posted this photo and a link on his Facebook page last week   
 Victim: Jason Derfuss, who was leaving the library when the gunman entered, posted a picture of a bullet and two books he was carrying in a back pack that he said saved his life She said: 'He's just a boy our kids grew up with that we let stay in one of our guest houses for a while. He's moving back home from Texas and we were trying to help him get on his feet. It's horrifying.'Taunton said he was planning to take the Florida bar exam in February. According to Fox News, he was back in the area studying for the test and seemed to be himself. He had even gone on a camping trip with the pair a week earlier. However his behavior changed when he went missing after having dinner with his grandmother last Friday. David Taunton, who also owns a home, sent him an email to check where he was. He replied a while later saying: 'I'm sorry [in reference to the delayed response. I'm all right [sic]'. The last time they saw him he was cheering on the Florida Seminoles football team from his couch.  'We're just all astounded. We had no idea that he would do something like this. Obviously, he was not in his right mind.'She said she had known him since he was about 13 or 14 and that he ran cross country with her kids and stayed at her house a lot. She said he lived with his grandmother after coming out of a 'bad situation' with his parents.'He was a well-liked, real smart. He was having some financial issues and moved back home and decided he'd come back to Florida to work.'My heart's broken. In a million years I wouldn't have thought he'd do something like this. He was struggling, having decided that what he was doing out there was not good. He had some issues and just decided he'd come home. He was struggling, like we all do, financially and otherwise.'He graduated from Florida State in 2004 before going to law school at Texas Tech. May then became the in-house council for Taunton Family Children's Home.  She said she had known him since he was about 13 or 14 and that he ran cross country with her kids and stayed at her house a lot. She said he lived with his grandmother after coming out of a 'bad situation' with his parents.'He was a well-liked, real smart. He was having some financial issues and moved back home and decided he'd come back to Florida to work,' she said. 'My heart's broken. In a million years I wouldn't have thought he'd do something like this. He was struggling, having decided that what he was doing out there was not good. He had some issues and just decided he'd come home. He was struggling, like we all do, financially and otherwise.'




Three students shot in Florida university library













  
 Dent: Derfuss shows the mark left by the bullet during the shooting. He claimed that he did not feel the shot hit him in the back  
 
Bullet hole: The student only discovered he had been shot at when he checked his bag. He then pulled the bullet out of a book he had been carrying   
 Hit: Derfuss said he didn't believe he was a target and had his back to the shooter when he heard the shotsHis old law school room mate from Texas Tech told Fox News that May sent her a cryptic Facebook message the day before the rampage, saying she should expect something in the mail. She added that she was not aware about any break-ups of fractious relationships, but said he had lost a lot of relatives over the summer.  On his Facebook page, he often wrote biblical verses and made a number of references to Christianity.His last post. two days before the shooting, read: 'Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. ~ Matthew 5:3.'Last week he also wrote: 'For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. ~ Romans 8:38-39.' He also posted a quote by Black Panther leader Bobby Seale: 'The people have now come to realize that the only way to deal with the oppressor is to deal on our own terms and this was done.'Earlier messages also showed that he was having internal problems, with the death of a number of relatives in a short space of time.On July 30, he wrote: 'This week was a reminder of how suddenly life can disappear. Uncle passed away. Then, I spent part of my weekend in the ER. I'm good. No worries. But man, that was scary.' Senior Sarah Evans from Miami said she was inside the library and heard a male student say he had been shot. When she looked at him, he was on the ground with blood spreading on his pants.Video footage obtained by WSB-TV shows one man lying on the floor holding his leg, saying that he had been shot.  Northway said authorities did not believe there were any other threats related to the incident and they believed the gunman acted alone.Shortly after 4am, a loud tone sounded across the campus followed by an announcement that the campus was 'all clear.'At the same time, authorities allowed hundreds of students who had been shepherded in a classroom building next to Strozier Library, a multistory building in the center of the Tallahassee campus, to return to their homes.Hours after the shooting, detectives could be seen inspecting the body of the suspected gunman, who was lying face down at the top of an access ramp just outside the library. A gray baseball cap lay near his head.Students who had been in the library described a chaotic scene where they heard shots Many were forced to barricade themselves in parts of the library or take cover.Some even wrote goodbye messages on white boards, fearing the worst outcome of the shooting.




Police kill gunman at campus in a shooting that left 3 wounded













  
 Aftermath: One student who described the ordeal as 'one of the scariest nights of my life' posted an image of the chaos on Intsagram   
 A Tallahassee police officer investigates a broken window near to where the shooting took place outside the Strozier library   
 Tense situation: A gunman opened fire at Florida State University on Thursday, injuring two as cops rushed to the scene  
 Police investigate the shooting at Strozier Library: The incident happened just after midnight, with students being encouraged to exit the library with their hands upJohn Ehab, a sophomore from Tampa, said he was on the library's third floor when he heard multiple gunshots.'Everyone heard them,' he said. People took cover in the book aisles to hide from the gunman in case he came onto the floor, Ehab said.Allison Kope, a freshman from Cocoa Beach, said she was on the library's first floor when said she heard a loud noise and then there was a lot of commotion. She said people were screaming about a gunman and chairs started flipping over.'You never think something like this is going to happen to you until you have to react in that situation when someone is screaming there is a gun in the building. I ran for my life,' she said. 'I ran right out the backdoor. My laptop and everything is still in there. It was shock. It was just instinct. You don't think about anything else, you just go.' Daniel Morales, a 19-year-old freshman from Fort Pierce, said that when he first heard someone say 'somebody's got a gun. I thought he was joking.' But after realizing there was a gunman in the library, Morales and others raced to a back room on the second floor where they barricaded a door with desks.Freshman Nikolai Hernandez said he was in his dorm room across from the library when he heard five or six rapid gunshots.'It was a consecutive bop, bop, bop, bop, bop,' Hernandez said. 'It makes me definitely a little bit nervous. 'I was supposed to be in the library. I had a paper to do and I got a little bit lazy and decided not to do it.'David Sillick, the publisher of Jacksonville Business Journal, told Fox News that he received a text message from his daughter during the shooting, saying, 'There's a man with a gun in the library. I love you.' She called a few minutes later to say police were at the scene and clearing out the floors and she was fine.'We didn't know what was happening so I monitored Twitter,' Sillick said. 'A message like that is every parents' worst fear.'Hours later, detectives could be seen inspecting the body of the alleged gunman. He was lying face down at the top of the access ramp just outside the library. 
 
Police clearing out the fourth floor of the building after the shooting, left, while students have their bags searched as they are led out of the building, right   
 Scared crowds: Students in the Strozier library at the time of the shooting  
 Patrol: An armed guard walks around the library in the aftermath of the shooting as students are evacuated  
 
Students left all their belongings, including computers and laptops abandoned as they were forced to evacuate the building    
 Marked off: Authorities mark off an area near the library at FSU  
 Operation: Armed officers walk into the building as students raise their arms   
 Evacuation; Marlee Gil, left, from Key West and Joshua Duck, from Sommerset, Kentucky. gather their belongings on the third floorFlorida State President John Thrasher, who took office earlier this month, said by phone that he was in New York City and had no first-hand information. He said he was making arrangements to hurry back to Tallahassee.Thrasher decided to cancel classes Thursday for the entire campus, although the university itself would remain open. On Thursday morning, he posted a statement on the college's website. It read: 'The Florida State University community is extremely saddened by the shootings that took place early this morning at Strozier Library, in the very heart of campus, and our thoughts and prayers are with the families and loved ones of all those who have been affected.'The three students who have been injured are our highest priority followed by the needs of our greater university community. We will do everything possible to assist with their recovery.'Over the past few hours, I have received several briefings from administrators and law enforcement regarding campus safety and security, and they have established that this was an isolated incident. Florida State University and Tallahassee police departments have done an extraordinary job taking quick and decisive action to prevent further tragedy, to secure the scene and to keep campus safe. They have assured me that there is no further threat.'We are increasing security measures and providing a strong law enforcement presence on and around campus today. I have great confidence in the abilities of our local law enforcement agencies to handle this matter.'  
 Huddled: Students stay together waiting to be evacuated from the library  
 'Survivors': Students wrote their names on whiteboards during the shooting. Some posted goodbye messages on other surfaces around the library   
 Block: Some students in the library stacked up furniture in a desperate attempt to barricade the doors   
 Assistance: A student is helped by a police officer on the fourth floor of the Stozier library   
 United: Students from FSU gathered outside the library for a vigil the day after the shooting   
 Emotional: Friends hug as they gather for the vigil in the aftermath of the attack on the library   
 Huddled together: Three students stand arm in arm on the Tallahassee campus. Classes and exams were cancelled on Thursday  
Update: At a press conference on Thursday, police chief Michael DeLeo said that May was in a emotional and psychological crisis at the time. They also found evidence that he believed the government was targeting him  

Read more:

"Dangerous situation" on FSU campus - CBS News
Two shot inside FSU's Strozier library | FSView | fsunews.com
RAW VIDEO: Students first learn of shooting inside FSU library | www.wsbtv.com
Gunman who shot 3 at Florida State University was former student, lawyer, law enforcement official says | Fox News
Update Your Browser | Facebook
FSU gunman sent mystery mail to law school roommate before attack | Fox News
FSU gunman sent mystery mail to law school roommate before attack | Fox News





Share or comment on this article

























1.5kshares














MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS

Previous
1
2
3
Next

 



Too racy? Carl's Jr's near-naked new Super Bowl commercial





Teenager's glorious glitter bomb prank makes nosy dad...





The dub step baby is back. But do you think his moves real?





McDonald's fries: Find out how they are made and what from





Hilarious adult tantrum leaves on-lookers in tears of...





The moment GloZell offered green lipstick to Obama's 'first...





Graphic footage shows young girl stab her rival in the face





Moment Wal-Mart shopper tackles man with a concealed gun





Dashcam footage of NJ police shooting man after traffic stop





Incredible archive footage shows terrifying prehistoric...





Girls, cars and cash: The crazy world of Floyd Mayweather





Horrifying: Day care worker caught on camera kicking toddler























Parents share tragic suicide note of Ivy League track star,...





How's your first wife, Mr President? Obama's YouTube...





REVEALED: The 14 ingredients in McDonald's FRIES - including...





EXCLUSIVE: A duffel bag 'pregnant' with $100k, strippers...





'I like my balls a certain way': Tom Brady breaks his...





Is this advert too racy for the Super Bowl? Carl's Jr. gives...





EXCLUSIVE: An illegal immigrant, warring parents and a...





'People need to have less things in life', says U.S....





Pictured: The nondescript apartment building where twins, 9,...





Page 3 returns… after a week: Winking topless woman appears...





Poonado! The moment divers were caught up in a 30-metre wide...





Saudi Arabia buries its king: Thousands gather in Mecca as...




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
Next

●
●
●


 















Comments (701)

                                	Share what you think
                                







Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated




 View all



The comments below have not been moderated.





 View all


                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.


Who is this week's top commenter?
Find out now







More top stories










Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search


























Like
DailyMail




Follow
MailOnline




Follow
DailyMail




+1
DailyMail







 
 
Femail Today







          Jennifer Lopez displays eye-popping cleavage in a daring plunging gown as she pokes fun at her exes by insisting she's 'not a looks person' 
          









          Justin Bieber soaks up the sun in his pool with bikini-clad Hailey Baldwin... as the singer 'denies that he's dating model OR their mutual friend Kendall Jenner'
          









          Jennifer Aniston flashes her huge engagement ring as she steps out for FIVE-hour dinner with Justin Theroux 
          
          Had a lot to talk about
        








          From shy starlet to the world's next supermodel: Just 19 and worth $2.8million, the meteoric rise of Kendall Jenner (and why Kim isn't happy about it) 
          









          Gigi Hadid is named Model Of The Year at Daily Front Row Fashion Awards and stuns in tight coral dress alongside Cody Simpson
          
          Stars were in LA
        













          Sean Penn has 'filed papers to adopt' Charlize Theron's son Jackson... and the couple 'plan on another child in the future'
          
          Reported to be engaged
        








          Bra-vo! Miranda Kerr puts her stunning curves on display as she strips down to lingerie for latest Wonderbra campaign 
          
          Life after Victoria's Secret
        








          Royal invasion of Davos: Queen Rania of Jordan, Mette-Marit of Norway and Belgium's Mathilde descend for economic forum with Emma Watson
          









          Emma Watson is suited and booted as she addresses leaders at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland 
          
          Named the Feminist Celebrity of 2014
        








          Wonky teeth, acne, wrinkles and hillbilly hair: Is this how Cheryl Fernandez-Versini and Ryan Gosling would look  if they weren't famous?
          
          Without fame and money
        











          Pop princesses Katy Perry, Rihanna and Miley Cyrus lead the glamorous front row crowd at LA fashion awards
          
          All have unique styles
        








          'A tabletop for my snacks!' Pregnant Carrie Underwood tweets a snap of herself resting a bowl of chips on her prominent baby bump
          









          Savannah Guthrie left red-faced after admitting to having 'sexy dreams' about her Today show co-hosts while playing a game of 'Never Have I Ever' live on-air
          









          In love again! Bachelor vet Courtney Robertson is 'dating a normal guy she met on Tinder'... two years after ending engagement with Ben Flajnik
          









          Farrah Abraham shows off her plump pink pout as she glams it up in Las Vegas after THAT lip disaster 
          
          Shocked viewers with photos of a botched lips
        








          Mindy Kaling gets NAKED in a public park while believing she is invisible... in teaser for upcoming Super Bowl commercial
          
          Has her own sitcom
        








          Taylor Swift shows off her slender pins in tiny denim hotpants
          
          Singer has just confirmed she'll be performing at big UK gig this summer
        








          Kate finally loses her style crown! Keira Knightley voted most stylish mother-to-be... pipping Duchess of Cambridge to top spot 
          
          Expecting her first child
        








          Smitten Heidi Klum cannot contain her excitement as she steps out in Love slogan jumper after receiving bouquet of pink roses
          
          Couldn't stop smiling
        








          Lindsay Lohan could 'face jail AGAIN after failing to complete community service for a second time'
          
          Failed to complete her required 240 hours
        











          Alec Baldwin leaps to Seth Rogen's defense as comedian is forced into new apology over American Sniper criticism 
          
          Been feeling the heat
        








          Model behavior! Kendall Jenner and Hailey Baldwin look ready for the runway as they pop to the shops in Beverly Hills
          
          Ladies went on a spree
        








          'Every once in while models have to stop and eat': Kendall Jenner tucks into a tray of fried chicken wings as she grabs lunch with Scott Disick
          









          Dunk in love! Beyonce and Jay Z are all smiles as they enjoy another basketball date night in Los Angeles
          
          Making the most of some downtime 
        








          Mrs. Doubtfire bound for Broadway? Composer Alan Menken turning beloved film starring Robin Williams into stage musical
          
          After star's tragic death 
        








          'Tell them to f*** off': Sam Taylor-Johnson hits back at critics over 23 year age gap between her and husband Aaron
          
          Began dating in 2009
        








          Lana Del Rey rocks a bright floral mini-dress as she grabs coffee with boyfriend Francesco Carrozzini after lunch date with her sister
          
          Lovers needed caffeine
        








          'You start lowering your standards': Joaquin Phoenix says he doesn't do 'bigger movies' because the quality of acting suffers
          
          Avoids big franchises
        








          A fashionable Affair: Ruth Wilson shows off her style credentials in an edgy photo shoot for The EDIT
          
          The actress is currently on Broadway
        








          Bright young things! Katy Perry wears a hot pink outfit that matches Nicole Richie's new hair at LA fashion awards... while debuting her own purple locks
          









          Now THAT'S effortless chic! Miley Cyrus makes a statement in a baggy T-shirt dress at LA fashion awards
          
          The shirt read: 'I had nothing to wear'
        








          Ashton Kutcher to testify against accused killer as new court documents reveal the full horror of his then-girlfriend's grisly murder
          









          Mickey Rourke finds a tiny new puppy to fill the hole in his heart over the loss of his beloved Chihuahua, Jaws
          
          The 62-year-old has a new best friend
        








          Well, this is awkward! Chris Brown fights for love in new video Autumn Leaves starring ex-girlfriend Karrueche Tran
          
          Time to face the music
        








          Dakota Johnson indulges in some retail therapy... as Fifty Shades Of Grey predicted to make $45 million on its debut weekend 
          
          To air on Valentine's Day
        








          'You do tend to get sick of listening to yourself': Fergie says she got bored of singing classic Black Eyed Peas hits
          
          I Gotta Feeling was No. 1 in the US for 14 weeks 
        








          The lioness strikes again! Smouldering Cara Delevingne is fearless with a wild animal in her arms as she's named TAG Heuer brand ambassador
          









          Jennifer Aniston reveals her shapely legs in a plunging LBD and dazzling heels as she arrives for TV appearance with Jon Stewart
          









          Surf's up! Simon Baker slips into a pair of red shorts and shows off his chiseled torso and muscly arms as he rides some waves
          
          He's still fit at 45
        








          Loved-up Anne Hathaway and husband Adam Shulman go hand-in-hand as they celebrate their first movie collaboration Song One
          









          Next stop, Paris! Kris Jenner dons glamorous head-to-toe black ensemble as she leaves London for the French capital
          
          Jet-setting momager
        








          Seeing double! Meghan Trainor is tickled pink as she leaves radio studios with a balloon model of herself in miniature form
          
          Famed for her hit All About That Bass 
        








          They might have split up but A-list former couples such as Gwyneth and Chris are surprisingly good at staying friends... So how DO they do it?
          









          'I was meant to be wearing nothing!' Colin Firth says THAT famous Pride and Prejudice lake scene would have been very different if the BBC weren't so 'prudish'
          









          Josh Hartnett puts his five-bedroom Minnesota home on the market for a cool $2.4m as he plans to spend 'less time in the region'
          
          Actor is moving on 
        








          Dancing Queen! Meryl Streep shimmies on stage in a chic jumpsuit as she presents Into The Woods director Rob Marshall the New York Apple Award
          









          Big boys toys! Bruce Jenner is finally allowed a chopper of his own as he and son Brandon take to the skies 
          
          Now divorced, the reality star can fly real thing
        








          Britney Spears nails off-duty chic in a peach blouse and towering heels as she hits the shops in LA
          
          The 33-year-old singer kept it  prim and proper
        








          She's back! RHOC favorite Jeana Keough set to return for new season of reality show
          
          Bravo have yet to confirm the season 10 cast for the show
        








          Kristen Wiig is dressed down in a camel coat as she leads the celebrity arrivals at the Sundance Film Festival
          
          The comedic actress arrived in Utah 
        








          Blonde bombshell Busy Philipps shows off her petite waistline in an eye-catching red dress as she picks up grocery shopping
          
          Cougar Town actress
        








          Getting into the swing of it! Zac Efron shares a joke with co-star Robert De Niro... as he cuts a preppy figure for golf scene on Dirty Grandpa film set
          









          Take a bow! Rihanna shines in gold and fur in a revealing Moschino creation as she takes designer Jeremy Scott as her date to Fashion Los Angeles Awards
          









          A hair-raising moment! Rachel Hunter's blonde tresses glamorously billow in the wind as the 45-year-old supermodel strolls around Los Angeles
          









          Cate Blanchett films new Giorgio Armani commercial with Australian Bachelor star Tim Robards
          
          He's a Dolce and Gabbana model too
        








          Back to the day job: Prince Andrew continues to 'focus on his work' hours after dismissing 'sex slave' claims at Davos
          
          Denies the allegations
        








          Pretty in pink! Sarah Hyland looks demure in a shimmery pastel skirt as she celebrates the Artios Awards in Beverly Hills
          
           Modern Family star 
        








          Willow Smith, 14, whips up a frenzy online with provocative nude photo
          
          She's the teen daughter of Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith
        








          Halle Berry flashes her Hollywood smile as she dresses stylishly in a fedora hat and over-the-knee leather boots to meet a friend
          
          She's a mother of two
        








          Kendra Wilkinson looks happy and healthy in a vest top and basketball shorts as she steps out in the sunshine in LA
          
          Gearing up for spring
        








          Kerry Washington turns heads at fashion event in LA as she shows off her shorter new hairstyle
          
          The Scandal star sported a trendy new 'do 
        








          The Gambler film review: Remaking the '70s classic with Mark Wahlberg doesn't pay off
          
          The original film starred James Caan
        








          'Have doctors gowns gotten more chic?' Jenna Dewan-Tatum shares a selfie from the medical room... before hitting the gym
          
          Showed off her figure
        








          RHONYC's Sonja Morgan and Ramona Singer coordinate in lingerie inspired ensembles as they embrace at a party
          
          They're close pals
        








          Life of a model and mother! Alessandra Ambrosio runs errands with her son Noah before grabbing coffee in LA
          
          Super busy lifestyle
        








          Boys' lunch date! Kelsey Grammer proves he's a hands on father as he takes baby Gabriel to posh restaurant Cecconi's in LA
          
          Couldn't stop smiling 
        








          Is your make-up poisoning you? Miranda Kerr's beauty guru claims she lost her memory and hair at the hands of 'toxic' products
          
          Prefers au natural
        








          Stars reveal their hand luggage secrets: The moisturizer, cashmere and rose-gold headphones A-listers can't be without when they travel 
          









          Janice Dickinson looks shocked as a fan holds up 'I hate Bill Cosby' sign by her car in LA
          
          The 59-year-old model was open-mouthed as she looked out
        








          Game Of Thrones star Sophie Turner lands at LAX as it's announced that she has been cast in X-Men: Apocalypse
          
          Playing popular character Jean Grey
        








          Privates on parade! Fashion fans get more than they bargained for as Rick Owens shows FULL FRONTAL male nudity on the catwalk
          
          Male models in robes 
        








          Couldn't quite commit? Rose McGowan joins the colored hair trend... but just for the night in a felt purple cap at fashion bash
          
          Seems to be taking off
        








          Her little star! Alyson Hannigan opts for a casual sweater and jeans as she takes her mini-me daughter Keeva to the park
          
          She's a doting mother
        








          Lana Del Rey glams it up in floral mini-dress... as she dines out with her tomboy chic sister Caroline in LA
          
          Singer had fun in the outdoor area
        








          Melanie Griffith shows off a glimpse of her toned tummy in a black crop top and zany leggings for another gym session
          
          Third workout session 
        








          'Acting was paying the bills!' Abbie Cornish reveals she's been writing raps for years 'behind closed doors' but put off music to support herself abroad
          









          'Those comments that you said were very low': Michelle Williams defends Beyoncé on The View with guest Mike Huckabee
          
          The singer hit back 
        








          Jamie Dornan smoulders in brooding shoot... as he reveals he asked pal Robert Pattinson for advice ahead of 50 Shades Of Grey film frenzy
          









          Anna Kendrick sizzles in a mesh skirt at party for her Nylon cover... after saying she never felt 'cool' enough to read the magazine
          
          The 29-year-old posed
        








          Mom's night out! Ciara shows off her toned stomach while Drew Barrymore covers up in a midi skirt as the pair pose at fashion bash
          
          Both gave birth last year 
        








          Gym devotee Kelly Brook steps out in unflattering two-tone leggings as she heads to the shopping mall in West Hollywood 
          
          British model in LA
        








          Hot wheels! Anna Faris is laid back in black on a family bike ride with husband Chris Pratt and son Jack
          
          Making sure to have quality family time
        








          Sixties siren! Jaime King shows off her long legs in retro paisley print mini-dress while out with son James
          
          Jaime, 35, held the 15-month-old boy 
        








          How Beyonce's rejection made Meghan Trainor a star: ADRIAN THRILLS reviews 'All About That Bass' singer's feelgood debut album 
          









          Madonna thanks Israeli cops for arresting former singing show contestant who 'hacked her computer to leak new song'
          
          Arrested Adi Lederman 
        








          Sin City beauty Rosario Dawson dazzles as she shows off her trim frame in a fun denim cape and chic print dress at launch party
          
          In Los Angeles
        








          Looking for Brandi? Joanna Krupa looks ready for a showdown as she jets to LA after filing defamation suit against Glanville
          
          Tension between pair
        








          Are Johnny Depp and Amber Heard already married? Actor seen wearing new gold band on his ring finger
          
          The pair are famously private 
        








          Carlos Santana's nephew (who 'looks like Jimmy Fallon') impresses J-Lo and the other judges on American Idol
          
          He can certainly sing
        








          Beauty queens at war: Miss Lebanon claims Miss Israel 'chased her for days' before ambushing her in Miss Universe selfie that sparked outrage
          









          Iron Maiden bassist Steve Harris slashes $3million from $10million price of 11-bed mansion which comes with its own pub and football pitch 
          









          'It was fun!': Teresa Giudice's daughter Gia reveals details of first prison visit and says reality star 'looked amazing'
          
          At Danbury penitentiary 
        








          A Moment Like This! Kelly Clarkson shares a picture of her and daughter River Rose on their first night out in Manhattan together
          
          Only six months old
        








          'We were too young!' Pete Wentz reveals pain behind his divorce with Ashlee Simpson and talks band beef with 5 Seconds Of Summer
          
          Looked at his past
        








          Bethenny Frankel dresses to impress in LBD in New York... after hitting back at claims she's too thin 
          
          Looked as slim as ever as she stepped out in 
        








          Malin Akerman feels the chill in New York as she wraps up in dramatic fur-lined jacket ...after appearing on the Today show
          
          Wrapped for winter
        








          Caliente! Eva Longoria stuns on the cover of Vogue Mexico as she promotes her new NBC series Telenovela in Miami
          
          Said she was 'freezing'
        








          Nautical nice! Rachel Griffiths looks chic in low-cut '50s style striped swimsuit as she relaxes beach side with her two daughters
          
          Star was in Australia
        








          Did Redfoo teach her those moves? Tennis ace Victoria Azarenka entertains the crowd by DANCING on court after powering her way into Australian Open
          









          Anyone for sex bark or spirit truffle? Gwyneth Paltrow shares 'brain-activating' drink recipes... and reveals the best parenting apps to keep children calm
          









          The Theory of (all-black) Everything! Oscar nominee Felicity Jones makes a chic TV appearance in tailored trousers and a strappy top
          









          It's Star-Lord vs. Captain America! Chris Pratt and Chris Evans make bet on outcome of the Super Bowl
          
          Light-hearted war of words on Twitter 
        








          Going hunting? Usher dons fur cap and leather biker trousers as he steps out for first time since engagement news
          
          Without his fiancée Grace Miguel
        








          Naomi Campbell teases a glimpse of her black bra in a sheer blouse and fur jacket... as she shares steamy scene on new TV show
          
          Trying acting out
        








          Will Andrew ever be able to visit the US again? Prince risks being served with subpoena ordering him to give evidence on oath if he goes there
          









          Snow Queen Kris Jenner dons another glamorous all-white outfit with velvet coat for night out at Mr Chow in London
          
          Enjoying her UK trip
        








          All About That Face: Meghan Trainor pulls a wacky peace sign as she steps out wearing all-black ensemble in London
          
          Caught attention in UK
        








          Catches it when he can! Tom Hanks proves he is an everyman as he rides the subway on New York
          
          Fastest way to travel in the Big Apple
        








          'It's all still here!' Ellie Kemper plays doomsday cult survivor in trailer for Tina Fey's eagerly awaited new Netflix show
          
          Released  trailer
        








          'I choked on snow and vomited!' Lea Michele reveals how her rendition of Let It Go on Glee didn't go to plan
          
          Frozen star Idina Menzel sent good luck message
        








          'It will be unflinchingly honest!' Alec Baldwin set to write warts and all memoir due out in fall 2016
          
          Actor is writing a candid memoir
        








          'Taylor Swift is very strategic with her friends and enemies': Katy Perry's DJ ex Diplo claims he knows 'a lot of secrets' about Shake It Off singer 
          









          Bad hair day? Russell Crowe gets his comb over tended to by a stylist while filming on set of new movie The Nice Guys
          
          He didn't look happy
        








          Still going strong! Olivia Munn holds hands with football star boyfriend Aaron Rodgers following premiere of Mortdecai 
          
          The couple have been since 2014
        








          Amber Le Bon keeps it casual in skinny jeans and black top as she enjoys rare date night with Dan Kapp at restaurant launch 
          
          Model out in London
        








          Leather-clad Monica Lewinsky steps out in London in head-to-toe black to attend the screening of a political satire
          
          Monica was all smiles
        








          Fixer Upper! Reese Witherspoon switches her style from casual to chic after checking out renovations on her new home in LA
          
          Bought house in August 
        








          Saved By The Bell's Dustin Diamond and his clown girlfriend Loli Pop look glum as they appear in court to enter not guilty pleas in Christmas bar stabbing
          









          Bachelorette Andi Dorfman dances heartache away with her 'girls, some wine and entire Taylor Swift album' after split
          
          Broke up January 8
        








          Mile High Club, nude beaches and sexting! Johnny Depp and Gwyneth Paltrow spill sexy secrets in a game of Never Have I Ever on The Ellen Show 
          









          Moved to tears, Charles? Prince enjoys 'astonishing' performance from Australian soprano on his OWN cello at Buckingham Palace
          









          'He smelled bad': Dance Moms star Maddie Ziegler, 12, talks about Shia LaBeouf's hygiene in controversial Elastic Heart video
          
          She didn't hold back
        








          Pregnant again! Rachael Leigh Cook and husband Daniel Gillies say they were 'surprised' to learn they were expecting a second child
          









          ESPN analyst suffers epic copy and paste fail on Twitter after accidentally posting link to porn website
          
          Gerry Hamilton suffered epic copy and paste fail 
        








          'Loving the results!' JWoww reveals she's started 'waist training' just like the Kardashians to get her pre-baby body back
          
          She gave birth in July
        








          Shirtless James Franco passionately kisses Zachary Quinto in new stills from upcoming biopic I Am Michael
          
          The actors lock lips
        








          Move over Kate Upton! Carl's Jr. risque new Super Bowl ad stars an almost naked Charlotte McKinney
          
          The blonde model is the new face of the brand
        








          There's no stopping her! Kendall Jenner's debut Karl Lagerfeld campaign unveiled just hours after she shared her latest fashion spread for Vogue
          









          The friends that dress together... Kristen Stewart and close pal Alicia Cargile wear matching beanies as they grab coffee in LA
          
          Needed a caffeine fix
        








          Greg Plitt's episodes of Friends To Lovers with Melanie Marden will air on Bravo just weeks after the bodybuilder was killed in train accident
          









          Life is better with her! Michael Franti proposes to longtime love with a touching engagement video featuring intimate moments from their everyday lives
          









          Oops! Brandi Glanville accidentally tweets, then deletes cleavage snap meant for her 'boyfriend in Utah'
          
          The 42-year-old 's  enhanced assets
        








          Cara Delevingne gets saucy in soaking-wet unbuttoned white shirt... before showing off her toned bottom as she writhes around on a bed for new campaign
          









          'My body is genetic': Model Cameron Russell on why she doesn't have to watch what she eats as she poses for Self magazine
          
          Famed for her TED talk
        








          Joanna Krupa 'files defamation lawsuit against Brandi Glanville for claiming her private parts smell'
          
          Brandi made the comments on TV
        








          'I want to be a wife one day': My 600lb Life star enjoys her first ever date after shedding half of her body weight
          
          Tara, 36,   from Louisiana, had a romantic dinner
        








          The heir to Pacino: Intense, brooding, and magnetic, rising star Oscar Isaac has the looks of a young Al - and in two new films can act like him too
          





















 
 
DON'T MISS







          Roar! Carmen Electra, 42, heats up the beach in tiger-themed one piece almost 20 years after slipping into a red bathing suit for Baywatch
          









          'I drank every day': Ed Sheeran reveals difficult rise to fame... and that being called 'disappointing' by a stranger changed his life
          









          Red hot Julianne Moore, 54, looks radiant as she films L'Oreal Paris commercial in New York
          
          The 54-year-old's career is on a high
        








          'Feeling so blessed!' Marisa Miller shares a snap of her growing belly... and reveals she's expecting another boy
          
          Confirmed her second pregnancy in November
        








          Patrick Schwarzenegger showers bikini-clad Miley Cyrus with affection during passion-filled Hawaiian getaway
          









          Hot wheels! Ryan Gosling cruises around with Russell Crowe in a vintage convertible on the set of The Nice Guys
          
          The 34-year-old actor was filming in LA
        








          'I'm a hip hop girl': Justified's Natalie Zea smolders in black and white photo session for Issue magazine as she reveals a quirky side
          
          Talks about Hollywoo).
        








          'Don't know why it's so hard to believe 25 women': Jay Leno speaks on Bill Cosby sexual assault scandal 
          
          The fellow comedian spoke about claims
        








          Glee star Melissa Benoist, 26, has been cast as Supergirl for new fall TV series on CBS
          
          She will be Jennifer Garner's co-star
        








          'I came close to a sense of peace': Marlon Brando stars in new Sundance documentary compiled from hours of his own audio tapes
          
          200 hours of Brandon
        








          Uh-oh! Kevin Bacon surrenders to the NYPD at gunpoint while filming arrest scene for The Following's third season
          
          The 56-year-old plays FBI agent Ryan Hardy 
        








          Heidi Klum, 41, posts fresh-faced flashback Down Under age 26 as she prepares to jet into Sydney to launch her lingerie line
          
          On her promo tour
        








          Treasures from Lauren Bacall's sprawling NYC home predicted to raise $3m at auction -  including jewels and a statue of ex-husband Humphrey Bogart 
          









          Martin Scorsese documentary on Bill Clinton shelved after both sides disagree
          
          Reported that Clinton wanted more control over project
        








          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Kendall Jenner and a shirtless Justin Bieber get physical at his Beverly Hills home in playful volleyball game
          
          Friendly neighbors
        








          As TLC offers a first look at its brutal new show Style By Jury, host and fashion expert LOUISE ROE explains why first appearances matter so much
          









          On your bike! Rooney Mara gets close to Jack Reynor as they film scenes for new suspense thriller The Secret Scripture in Dublin
          









          Amanda Bynes 'won't be prosecuted for her September DUI but could still face jail'... and has not been seen in public in two months
          
          She's under probation
        








          Rosie Perez WILL return to The View on February 3, Rosie O'Donnell announces - dashing rumors she had been fired from the troubled ABC show
          









          Slam dunk! Ariana Grande, 21, will headline NBA All-Star halftime show in New York, following in the footsteps of Mariah Carey and Beyonce
          









          Gigi Hadid and boyfriend Cody Simpson keep date night casual while sporting matching caps
          
          The couple had just had a lavish trip to Abu Dhabi
        








          'I dieted too much during Alias': Jennifer Garner, 42, reveals why she can't be extreme about watching her weight any longer
          
          Her claim to fame
        








          Can't Touch This! Miley Cyrus shows off her eccentric style as she steps out in sequined harem pants
          
          She's more renowned for flashing flesh now
        








          Bathing beauty: Blurred Lines model Emily Ratajkowski treats fans to revealing nude picture
          
          The 23-year-old model and actress left little to the imagination
        








          'I was very scared of her': Julianne Moore recalls how nervous she was slapping Madonna in the 1993 flop Body of Evidence
          
          Spoke of sex scenes too
        








          Spot on! British classical singer Katherine Jenkins looks effortlessly chic in polka dot print dress as she performs at tourism event in NYC
          









          Anti-Target fashion bloggers star in retail giant's new plus-size campaign - and they even designed some of the clothes themselves
          
          Range called AVA & VIV
        








          Will Ferrell gets hauled off by security after throwing a basketball at a cheerleader during NBA game... but it's just for his new comedy Daddy's Home
          









          'I cracked a foot bone': Chrissy Teigen shares a photo from her hospital bed after taking a spill on the set of a TV show
          
          Model was hospitalized after the accident
        








          Couldn't decide on one? Bachelorette Desiree Hartsock wears TWO dresses to marry Chris Siegfried in vintage-themed wedding
          
          Wed in California
        








          'Up and about with my love': Yolanda Foster gets a kiss from husband David Foster in new snap after treatment for Lyme disease
          









          British TV presenter Alexa Chung puts her never-ending legs on show in a denim babydoll dress to roll out her jeans collection in Los Angeles
          









          Joined at the hip(ster)! Kristen Stewart and close pal Alicia Cargile wear snapbacks and slogan sweaters to grab coffee together
          
          More than just friends?
        








          'I'm a hopeless romantic': Jennifer Lopez reveals she'd like to date again... and her crushes on Charlie Hunnam and Tom Hardy
          
          Been married 3 times
        








          'It was in crayon, "touch boob"': Olivia Munn jokes about Johnny Depp grabbing her chest in a scene from Mortdecai on Conan
          









          Legendary shoe designer Vince Camuto dies at the age of 78
          
          Mr Camuto passed away following a battle with cancer - he is survived by his wife and five kids
        








          Not your best look Jennifer! Aniston mouths off with Jimmy Fallon in hilarious Lip Flip game on The Tonight Show
          
          She's promoting Cake
        








          Did Victoria's Secret provide the costumes? Miss Universe contestants slip into 'national dress' (but can you guess who comes from where?) 
          









          'We're The Real Housewives Of Casa Vega!': Lisa Rinna shares a playful snap with Denise Richards and pals from trendy Mexican joint
          









          Bikini-clad Britney Spears shows off her flat stomach and muscular frame during synchronized swimming session
          
          Her new workout regime
        








          So that's her secret! Charlize Theron shows off her sexy figure in a low-cut top and leather trousers as she snacks on fruit during shoot
          
          Joined by her son
        








          'What the?' Miley Cyrus shares a snap of herself as a fresh-faced teen... then poses in a VERY low cut top in bid to win followers
          
          Provocative pop star
        








           'We never even considered it!' Fifty Shades Of Grey director reveals why they cut infamous tampon scene before filming
          
          Explicit scene in book
        








          Ed Sheeran poses with The Stig before veering off course as he becomes third non-driver to tackle Top Gear challenge
          
          British singer on show
        








          Back to reality! Make-up free Renee Zellweger has coffee with a friend after returning from luxurious Hawaiian holiday
          
          Spotted sitting al fresco 
        








          Heating up Miami! Brooke Burke, 43, looks much younger than her years in snow tiger print dress at awards show
          
          She honored industry professionals 
        








          Gwyneth Paltrow reveals sideboob as she wears a stunning thigh-split gown at Mortdecai premiere in Los Angeles
          
          Mother-of-two is not shy
        








          'I know who David Beckham is!' Jessica Chastain admits she's a big fan of the former soccer star's racy underwear ads
          
          Was on a UK chat show
        








          Sarah Michelle Gellar attempts to go incognito in brown flat cap and sunglasses as she steps out for a shopping trip
          
          She's a mother of two
        








          British actress Kaya Scodelario 'in early talks' to take female lead in Pirates Of The Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales
          
          The new Keira Knightley
        








          'He's adorable': Ruth Wilson gushes over rumored love interest Jake Gyllenhaal... but insists they're like 'brother and sister'
          
          Broadway co-stars
        








          Kate Moss giggles with a male model as she steps out in real fur coat and frumpy dress at Louis Vuitton show in Paris 
          
          Kate threw her arms up 
        








          The lady is a vamp! Olivia Munn flashes her ample cleavage in a black sheer panel dress at Los Angeles premiere of Mortdecai
          
          She plays the vixen
        








          Not Berry glamorous! Halle has a dress down day going make-up free to pick up groceries 
          
          She has a busy life with two children and a television series
        








          ABS-olutely fabulous! Rita Ora flaunts her taut six-pack in sexy shoot for new Adidas clothing range
          
          The British singer is also very athletic
        








          Lily Collins smoulders in colorful knitwear as she poses for Karl Lagerfeld in new campaign
          
          The 25-year-old is the daughter of Phil Collins
        








          Boy Meets World! Actor Rider Strong welcomes a baby son with actress wife Alexandra Barreto... and they give him a colorful name
          









          Kris Jenner brings Hollywood glamour to UK awards show in a luxurious fur coat and white cutaway gown... but fluffs her lines live on television
          









          Kendall Jenner shows off some serious leg in an unusual caped playsuit as she takes a supermodel strut around the shops
          
          She's a caped crusader
        








          Kid Rock angers animal rights activists after Ted Nugent posts a picture of the rocker posing with a dead mountain lion 
          
          Posted on Facebook
        








          'We had no idea!' Lauren Graham opens up about the shock of learning Gilmore Girls had been axed
          
          Didn't know they were filming the final scenes 
        








          The View under fire for being 'racist and sexist' after show insiders leaked rumors that Rosie Perez 'isn't the sharpest tool in the box' 
          
          More controversy 
        








          Steven Tyler showcases his bizarre mani-pedi at LAX as it's revealed he's headlining Rolling Stone's Super Bowl party
          
          The rocker is 66
        








          Her Majesty gets a taste of the Good Life! The Queen is elegant in silver as she joins actress Penelope Keith for Women's Institute meeting
          









          'I want my mommy!': Snooki endures tough labor while delivering daughter Giovanna... which is FILMED on her reality show
          
          An intimate episode 
        








          Shaken, not stirred! Former James Bond star Pierce Brosnan ditches the martinis for a healthy smoothie while out in Malibu
          
          Once known for martinis
        








          Suits you! Anne Hathaway steps out in a tailored ensemble as it's revealed she is to return to the stage in a one-woman show
          
          Stars in Song One
        








          Back to the day job! Benedict Cumberbatch takes a break from awards season to film Sherlock with Martin Freeman
          
          Filming in England
        








          Sealed with a kiss! Kendra Wilkinson gives her pregnant pal's baby bump a big smooch during night out
          
          The former Playboy star has two kids of her own
        








          Jennifer Lopez steps out in a glamorous caramel coat and matching boots after Casper Smart's dog 'escapes from her home and attacks neighbor'
          









          Celebrity blogger Perez Hilton 'lost his virginity at age 12 and had sex daily with a schoolboy in a chapel'
          
          Made confession on UK Celebrity Big Brother
        








          He's just one of the girls! Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin catch up over lunch... days after his hike with Kendall Jenner
          
          Spotted cosying up
        








          The market don't lie! Shakira re-lists her $13m Miami property... a couple of million short of her original asking price
          
          Had to cut the price of her luxury mansion
        








          Boyhood star Ellar Coltrane steps into the limelight as he discusses the Oscar frontrunner at event in Los Angeles
          
          Filmed from age 5 to 18
        








          Melanie Griffith shows support for Paris by wearing 'Je suis Charlie' T-shirt to workout session following terrorist attacks
          
          Actress was in LA
        








          How the sprawling Foxcatcher estate that inspired the Oscar-tipped movie has been transformed into a multimillion-dollar development
          









          Perfect pins! Jennifer Connelly puts on a leggy display in smart printed mini dress and chunky ankle boots in Madrid
          
          Sure knows how to work her best assets
        








          Kendall Jenner shows off her long legs in '70s inspired photoshoot as she lands yet ANOTHER spread in fashion bible Vogue
          
          Copying big sister Kim
        








          Former Disney star David Henrie cast as Ronald Reagan in first ever biopic about the 40th President of the United States
          
          $25 million indie film
        








          Rihanna wins $4.5m legal battle against Topshop as judge rules store did not have the right to sell T-shirt her face on it without asking permission 
          









          Puppy love! Hilary Duff tenderly cradles her pet pooch Beau in her arms as she joins a pal for a hike in Beverly Hills 
          
          The 27-year-old actress kept her dog close
        








          'Nobody had iPhones': Elle Macpherson reminisces on her supermodel heyday in the 1980s and the era that made her The Body
          
          She's an iconic model
        








          Prince Andrew publicly denies allegations he had underage sex with teenager hours after accuser urged him to swear on oath he is innocent
          









          Puppy love! Katherine Heigl and husband Josh Kelley take their cute little pooch along on a lunch date with pals
          
          One of the animal lover's eight canines
        








          British pop star Ellie Goulding shows off her sensual ballroom moves in the new Fifty Shades Of Grey music video for single Love Me Like You Do
          









          Flexible Kelly Brook slips into low-cut workout gear for a VERY busty selfie as she gets stuck into a pilates session
          
          British model's workout
        








          Now you see it, now you don't! Lea Michele tosses her long hair around as she arrives at TV studio... after showing off short bob the day before
          









          Who said talent shows were tired! Harry Connick Jr. reveals 'sleep eating' problem to fellow American Idol judges... as the show hits Minnesota
          









          Looking fly! Janice Dickinson distracts from her famed trout pout with a pair of giant reflective sunglasses  
          
          Former model was never one to be subtle
        








          'Hopefully I'll find love soon': Sam Smith confirms split from boyfriend Jonathan Zeizel after two months of dating
          
          Not a lasting love
        








          Emma Stone keeps it casual in a grey knitted sweater and scruffy flared jeans as she heads to theater ahead of Cabaret performance
          
          Stars on Broadway
        








          Giuliana Rancic shares a snap of her skinny legs while on holiday in Mexico... despite sparking concerns over weight after Golden Globes appearance
          









          'I don't mean any offense to Muslims': Rebel Wilson reveals she will wear a burqa in a scene for Sacha Baron Cohen's upcoming comedy Grimsby
          









          Game Of Thrones' Maisie Williams gets suited and booted in a masculine blazer and tailored trousers for UK's National Television Awards
          









          He can't wipe the smile off his face! Proud father-to-be Jeff Goldblum, 62, arrives at Mortdecai premiere with his bride Emilie, 32
          
          Wed three months ago
        








          Paris Hilton be warned! Jon Gosselin is the latest reality star to make a career as a DJ... after waiting tables at restaurants
          
          Needs to pay his way
        








          Arrest her already! Fashion Police star Kathy Griffin continues to prove she's no style queen... wearing drab outfit at LAX
          
          Dressed down look
        








          'I hope both of you catch a fist to the face': Kid Rock blasts American Sniper critics Seth Rogen and Michael Moore in profane blog post
          









          They were on a break! Guy Sebastian reveals he had a four month relationship with Delta Goodrem during a short split from his now wife Jules
          









          Precious cargo! Gwen Stefani carries little Apollo through the airport... as her first solo show in years is announced
          
          The Voice judge is 45
        










 
 
Today's headlines


 
 
Most Read









Saudi Arabia buries its king: Thousands gather in Mecca as King Abdullah is laid to rest in Riyadh after...





EXCLUSIVE: Father of boy who says he made up memoir of time in heaven now accused of profiting from 'scam' -...





The 29-point DEATH test: From slow walking speed to exhaustion, doctors' check list spots patients most at...





Alec Baldwin leaps to Seth Rogen’s defence as comedian is forced into new apology over American Sniper...





Is turbulence dangerous and can storms 'drag down' a plane? Pilots reveal the truth behind most common...





Cook bacon with an iron, cut cheese with dental floss and use your drawer as a cutting board: 50 culinary...





How's your first wife, Mr President? Obama's YouTube interview with woman who eats Fruit Loops from a...





All aboard the 'Lolita Express': Flight logs reveal the many trips Bill Clinton and Alan Dershowitz took on...





Back to the day job: Prince Andrew continues to 'focus on his work' hours after dismissing 'sex slave'...





Hard to swallow: Big Macs now cost FIVE POUNDS each in Switzerland... and that doesn't include fries and a...





Fired US McDonald's workers allege racial discrimination claiming supervisors repeatedly complained 'there...





Inside the town Warren Jeffs left behind: Community at center of FLDS cult split between defectors embracing...





Emma Watson is suited and booted as she addresses leaders at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland 





Northeast's first 'significant' winter storm set to bring MORE snow and ice on Friday night





Is GUM better than flossing? 10 minutes of chewing can remove 100 MILLION bacteria from your mouth, study...





Is your make-up poisoning you? Miranda Kerr's beauty guru claims she lost her memory and hair at the hands...





Did ISIS doctor the footage of Japanese hostages? Experts point out that shadows of the three men point in...





Revealed: How new Saudi King 'raised cash for Mujahideen', has a son who went into space... and will need a...





The Queen is now the world's oldest monarch after the death of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia at the age of...





Beauty queens at war: Now Miss Lebanon claims Miss Israel 'chased her for days' before ambushing her in Miss...





Princeton professor joins group of US intellectuals offering to take 100 lashes each for Saudi blogger...





Air strikes 'have killed 6,000 Isis fighters, including half of the top command': U.S. ambassador to Iraq...





Flags at half mast and fawning praise for a King 'loved by his people' sparks furious backlash over rule...





PICTURED: Four young cousins feared dead in tragic house fire during sleepover at their grandparents' $9M...





Yankees manager Brian Cashman 'spied on his mistress' emails, threatened her mother and tried to have her...





Beaver Scouts rocked by love triangle scandal after 'whisky-infused' father posts online message revealing...





Grandfather, 55, sentenced to 200 years for impregnating his 11-year-old granddaughter





Three-foot, 11 inch stripper and her six-foot tall solder fiance open up about their love affair





'Ours are fully filled': Krispy Kreme joins social media users poking fun at the New England Patriots as...





MORE HEADLINES







 
            Parents share tragic suicide note of Ivy League track star, 19, who jumped to her death from a parking garage and left gifts for friends and family members nearby
            



 
            How's your first wife, Mr President? Obama's YouTube interview with woman who eats Fruit Loops from a bathtub turns into PR disaster as his bid to get down with the digital kids backfires
            



 
            REVEALED: The 14 ingredients in McDonald's FRIES - including a petrol-based chemical and form of silicone found in Silly Putty
            



 
            EXCLUSIVE: A duffel bag 'pregnant' with $100k, strippers diving for cash, a $15m conman who promised to make him a billionaire and an entourage paid in Rolexes: the bizarre world of Floyd Mayweather, by his right hand woman
            



 
            'I like my balls a certain way': Tom Brady breaks his silence on Deflategate - but DENIES tampering with footballs and downplays the scandal by saying 'this isn't ISIS' 
            



 
            Is this advert too racy for the Super Bowl? Carl's Jr. gives a sneak peak at its risque new commercial featuring model tipped as 'the next Kate Upton'
            



 
            EXCLUSIVE: An illegal immigrant, warring parents and a bitter rift with the father she did not see for 40 years – the extraordinary story of Columba Bush as her husband bids to make her the first Hispanic first lady
            



 
            'People need to have less things in life', says U.S. billionaire after flying into Davos on private jet with his wife, children and TWO nannies
            



 
            Pictured: The nondescript apartment building where twins, 9, were left living ALONE for four months with 'no edible food' while parents were in Africa 
            



 
            Page 3 returns… after a week: Winking topless woman appears in The Sun under 'clarifications and corrections' headline
            



 
            Poonado! The moment divers were caught up in a 30-metre wide bowel movement as sperm whale unleashed its rare - and revolting - defence mechanism
            



 
            Saudi Arabia buries its king: Thousands gather in Mecca as King Abdullah is laid to rest in Riyadh after losing battle with pneumonia 
            



 
            Vanderbilt 'rape victim' testifies that she only knew 'she had been assaulted' when she watched video footage 'of the attack'
            



 
            A sparkling revenge! Prying father opens a parcel addressed to his son and gets hit with a glitter bomb on camera
            



 
            All aboard the 'Lolita Express': Flight logs reveal the many trips Bill Clinton and Alan Dershowitz took on pedophile Jeffrey Epstein's private jet with anonymous women
            



 
            Father makes emotional video calling out students who 'bullied and made racial slurs' towards his adopted eighth-grade daughter
            



 
            'This space is reserved for those who fought for AMERICA... not you': Female veteran shamed with nasty note for parking in veteran-only space demands an apology
            



 
            Pictured: Amazing transformation of abandoned poodles whose hair was so dirty and matted when they were found that they were barely even recognisable as dogs
            



 
            'Don't know why it's so hard to believe 25 women': Jay Leno speaks out in support of Bill Cosby sexual assault accusers
            



 
            Two women died after passing out on kid-friendly 'Small World' and 'Toy Story' attractions at Disney World last year
            



 
            'It's my body, it's my birth, it's my baby': Extraordinary moment Australian woman pulled her own twins from her tummy during caesarean delivery - and they're her tenth and eleventh babies
            



 
            'I hope both of you catch a fist to the face': Kid Rock blasts American Sniper critics Seth Rogen and Michael Moore in profane blog post
            



 
            'Now I'm hiring': Graduate who once stood in Waterloo station desperately handing out CVs now stands in the same place looking for job-hunters to join his firm
            



 
            Dustin Diamond and his clown girlfriend Loli Pop look glum as they appear in court to enter not guilty pleas in Christmas bar stabbing
            



 
            Fired Guantanamo commander was 'having an affair with a woman on the base whose husband was mysteriously found dead'
            



 
            Alec Baldwin leaps to Seth Rogen’s defence as comedian is forced into new apology over American Sniper criticism 
            



 
            'I do believe that Chris was with me': Widow of American Sniper Chris Kyle hunts antelope in his honor
            



 
            In just 46 words and 37 seconds, Prince Andrew dismisses 'sex slave' claims and says: My focus is on my work
            



 
            Hapless hero is left facing charges after he put Walmart shopper in choke-hold when he saw his legally concealed pistol
            


MOST READ IN DETAIL





















From the Makers of Candy Crush
Farm Heroes Saga, the #4 Game on iTunes. Play it now!



more
































Next story



      Saudi Arabia buries its king: Thousands gather in Mecca as King Abdullah is laid to rest in Riyadh after losing battle with pneumonia 
    







988 comments
    






5 videos
    










	SHARE PICTURE
      














Copy link to paste in your message





















Find out more...






Find out more...



























 
 
Back to top






Home




U.K.




News




Sports




U.S. Showbiz




Australia




Femail




Health




Science




Money




Video




Travel




Columnists







Sitemap
Archive
Video Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Our Papers
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
Evening Standard
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
US Careers at DailyMail.com
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies













 




 











 
 

















