Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Football


Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap

    By Bud Elliott


@SBNRecruiting


    on Jul 19 2013, 1:05a

    

21











Dalvin Cook (left) and FSU linebacker Matthew Thomas (right) - Bud Elliott






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook










Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




21


      Comments
    




Day 2 of Florida State's Jimbo Fisher football camp is in the books, and Tomahawk Nation has all of your recruiting updates thanks to our team of Stephen Fenech, Spencer Wills and Kasey Dixon. As always, I'll break it down by position for organizational purposes. Please feel free to ask any questions you may have. 
The question entering the camp was whether FSU could get the South Florida players up -- something that did not happen in June. The question has been answered, and it's a definite yes. Booker T. and Miami Central, the two South Florida powerhouses who were notably absent in June showed up in force, and Central brought 18 players. Members of Miami Northwestern, Southridge and St. Thomas Aquinas also made the trip.






So good to have all my boys from the #305 and the #786 in Tally!! #NoleNation #TheTimeIsNow
— Tim Brewster (@TimBrewster) July 19, 2013



Quarterback
I did not see a whole lot of quarterback play today, but no quarterback stood out as someone who was decidedly Florida State material. I've seen FSU commitment Treon Harris throw better before, and I've also seen Miami Jackson (Fla.) QB Quinton Flowers throw much better. I posted a video of Treon Harris talking about being recrutied to Florida State by Matthew Thomas, and recruiting other Booker T. studs to FSU here. 
Running Back
Thursday was a much better day at running back, at least in terms of attendance. The biggest name was Dalvon Cook, of Miami Central. I don't think FSU has a true shot at Cook, who is committed to Florida, but that he came to camp shows that he's open to hearing other recruiting pitches. 
Dalvon Cook chats with FSU linebacker Matthew Thomas





One back FSU does have a shot with, however, is Jonathan "Jay" Vickers, of Tallahassee North Florida Christian. He was there visiting with the staff, but did not work out, which he did in June. Vickers is a back with good balance. He is down to FSU and Louisville, has spent the last two days at FSU, is from Tallahassee, FSU wants him to jump on now, and will decide Friday around noon on WCTV, a local station. Reading the tea leaves...
T.J. Harrell, of Tampa (Fla.) Catholic was there, but did not work out. He will also be in town tomorrow. Harrell holds an FSU offer, and I spoke with him. He named Florida State in his top-two, with Louisville, but he is nowhere ready to decide, because he wants to see Michigan State and West Virginia. FSU commitment Corey Martinez is heavily recruiting Harrell to Tallahassee, as they are high school teammates. Harrell is also excited to see James Wilder, who he knew from growing up in Tampa. Harrell likes the coaching staffs at both schools, because they are down to earth. Louisville and Michigan State are recruiting Harrell as a safety, while FSU and West Virginia want him as a back. FSU plans to take three running backs, but if it fills up with two, it may wait on an elite back, which Harrell is not. 
Karan Higdon, of Sarasota Riverview, apparently was there for the morning session. He's a 2015 prospect. I did not notice him, and neither did our other observers, including observers from other networks. Higdon did not return for the afternoon session. He apparently has four-star potential, and I'll see him this year. 
Leonard Fournette did not show up, not that FSU ever had a shot at him in the first place. 
Aeris Williams, of Mississippi, did not make it in, but FSU is confident he will see the Seminoles this month. He dealt with some travel issues. I would not rule out him committing in July when he makes it back down. 
Wide Receiver
The underclassmen stole the show, as 2015 Da'Vante Phillips, of Miami (Fla.) Central showed up and worked out. He's a very talented player. And Jovan Durante, of Miami (Fla.) Jackson, who is a WVU commit (for now) was extremely good as well. Phillips is more of a power player, while Durante uses his speed. 2016 Darnell Salomon, of Champagnat Catholic, is also quite good. 
Tight End
Kaden Smith, Flower mound, TX, stood out. He is being recruited by Tim Brewster, who coached at Texas previously. Kasey Dixon spoke with Smith, who holds offers from Alabama and Clemson.

I'm really enjoying it, the new coach is really nice and Jimbo Fisher is still here, so that's good.

How is it working with Coach Brewster?

He's a great guy that I really enjoy, I like how he's really hard on everyone. Just be coachable around him and you'll be great.

When are you looking to decide on a school?

Probably junior year. I just want to see what offers I get and see the best fit for my education and not just football.

Have you been to any other camps this summer?

I just got back from Bama.

How did you like it there?

It was awesome, they offered me there. And then I went to Clemson and Stanford and I'm visiting Michigan later this month.

What are you looking for in a school as far as education goes?

I don't even know yet, just good education, that's all I'm sure of because I'm not sure what I want to major in yet, but I'll probably decide that later in my high school career.

Florida State also offered 2015 tight end Jackson Harris, of Columbia Tennessee. He is a very solid prospect. 
Offensive Line
Thursday had the best offensive line group of the Summer.
Trevor Darling, of Miami Central, was the best tackle at the event. Darling, a Miami commit (and a firm one) is very large and moves his body quite well. 
Recent FSU commit Corey Martinez showed up, but did not work out. He just got back from The Opening, where he performed well. Martinez is in great shape. 
FSU center commit Alec Eberle is also in great shape at 6'4 and 279 pounds. He is adjusting to snapping, and more importantly, coming out of his stance after snapping. He battled Darius Smalls (who is probably 340 pounds) in the 1-on-1 portion of the event, and showed well, considering it's a new thing for him and Smalls bull rushed him, which isn't really allowed. 
Marcus Applefield, of Weeki Wachi (Fla.) looked pretty good. He's about 6'6 and 275 pounds. FSU did not offer, but coach Trickett paid him a lot of attention. FSU will continue to evaluate Applefield, go back and watch his film, and depending on how other targets shake out, could end up offering Applefield. FSU is looking to take four tackles, and he could be the fourth, if offered. Early on, Applefield has a good relationship with Vanderbilt and Rutgers. 
Jake Stickler, of Brandenton (Fla.) Manatee, is probably 6'4 and 270 pounds. He holds a Georgia Tech offer and would be a good fit there with his athleticism. FSU will continue to evaluate him, but I doubt an offer comes based on what I saw today. 
2015 Christian Pellage was again working out. I covered him yesterday. 



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




21


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State football recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp July Session



Jul 19

              174 comments
          

Jonathan Vickers commits to Florida State: Noles land versatile running back



Jul 19

              21 comments
          

Florida State Recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap



Jul 18

              236 comments
          

Jimbo Fisher Football Camp Day 2 Live Updates


6 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







In This Article
Teams


Florida State Seminoles




Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


5-star CB recruit Iman Marshall on way to Florida State
2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































