Florida State gunman mails mystery package to friends just before shootings | WJLA.com
Florida State gunman mails mystery package to friends just before shootings | WJLA.com










WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






NATION
Florida State gunman mails mystery package to friends just before shootings

By Jay Korff, Jummy Olabanji

			November 20, 2014 - 10:57 pm Updated: November 21, 2014 - 03:36 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



ALEXANDRIA, Va. (WJLA) – A local man tells ABC7 News that the man who shot and wounded three students at Florida State University reached out to him just hours before the rampage to say he was sending him and others a package. What's in the package, no one knows.
Continue reading





Facebook message from Myron May. (Photo: Joe Paul)



More on this story


Gunman who shot 3 at Florida State University was lawyer, alumnus



Police identified the shooter as 31-year-old FSU graduate Myron May. Joe Paul, of Alexandria, who spoke exclusively Thursday night to ABC7 News, says he and May were friends a decade ago when they attended the Tallahassee school.
"We'd see each other all the time,” Paul said. “He was a rising leader when I was on campus."
Paul says May was a nice guy and news of this violence comes as a great shock to him.
"He was a friendly person. I didn't think he would be capable of something like this. But it did happen," he said.
Paul says both stayed in touch over the years via social media. He says last Saturday, May reached out to him and nine other friends on Facebook, asking them for a favor; he wanted to mail them something, but wouldn't say what it was.
"And we sent him our mailing address, thinking it was maybe a wedding invitation,” Paul said. “You never know what it was. We didn't know what it was."
Paul says at 9:53 p.m. Wednesday, just hours before the shootings, May sent him and the others a message saying he was mailing them a package that should arrive by Friday. The message included a picture of the parcel.
Tallahassee Police say at around 12:30 a.m. Thursday, May entered the main library on campus and shot three people, critically injuring one. Police say officers confronted May outside a short time later and ordered him to drop his handgun. They say he fired a shot at officers, who returned fire, killing the 2005 FSU graduate.
"When I saw his name and his face flash across the screen, I really couldn't believe it,” Paul said. “And then I put two and two together that he asked for our information, because maybe he was sending us a manifesto. I don't know what he was sending."
Much remains a mystery here. But May's old friend says he and others could tell that May had been struggling of late with his mental health. In fact, police say videos and a journal obtained by detectives, along with social media postings, indicate Myron May thought he was being followed and targeted by the government.
Paul has already been in touch with Tallahassee Police. They told him if he gets the package not to open it and contact Alexandria Police, who will coordinate with Florida authorities on what to do next.
"What we hope is in the package is why he chose to do this," Paul concluded.


Read More:
NewsChannel 8, 
Nation, 
Crime, 
Virginia, 
Virginia Crime, 
Florida, 
Only On 7, 
FSU, 
Florida State University, 
Myron May, 
Shooting, 
School Shooting, 
Alexandria VA, 
Tallahassee, 
Alexandria Police, 
City Of Alexandria, 
Exclusive








Recommended For You










More in "Nation"



Darren Wilson, Ferguson officer, 'confident' he won't be charged, says police union rep



100-Year-old woman sees the ocean for the 1st time



Roofs collapse under Buffalo's epic 7-foot snowfall












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Feds look into possible Fairfax County suicide clusters









Why you shouldn’t reach for that $100 bill on your windshield
















At house fire, man tells ABC 7 News crew: ‘I set it on fire’









Florida State gunman mails mystery package to friends just before shootings









Darren Wilson, Ferguson officer, 'confident' he won't be charged, says police union rep









Spy Stalker: New cheap, easy way to spy on others that puts domestic violence victims at risk









100-Year-old woman sees the ocean for the 1st time





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions
Sinclair Digital Solutions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service












 

