Packages from Florida State shooter seized by feds | WJLA.com
Packages from Florida State shooter seized by feds | WJLA.com










WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






NATION
Packages from Florida State shooter seized by feds

By The Associated Press, ABC News, ABC 7 News, Richard Reeve, Joce Sterman

			November 21, 2014 - 07:15 pm Updated: November 22, 2014 - 12:41 am
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (WJLA/ABC News/AP) - Federal authorities have intercepted several packages that were apparently mailed to eight friends by a man who shot three people at the Florida State University library.
Continue reading


What's in the box?



















One of the packages that Myron May sent to eight friends. (Photo: ABC News)



More on this story


Florida State gunman mails mystery package to friends just before shootings

Gunman who shot 3 at Florida State University was lawyer, alumnus



Authorities thought the packages could contain videos and journals from Myron May, who was killed by police officers outside the library Thursday, according to a law enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity because that person wasn't authorized to release information about the case.
Joe Paul, who attended FSU with May and lives in northern Virginia, told ABC7 News that he was one of eight people who were told by May to expect packages on Friday.
Paul said the situation is unnerving for all of those on May's package list.
"We're a little afraid," Paul said. "Why did he chose us?"
The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service said the packages weren't a threat and said they were flat-rate, priority mail envelopes.
Police also obtained videos and journals that indicate May feared he was being watched and targeted by the government. Tallahassee Police Chief Michael DeLeo said May was trying to get that message out.
May sent friends messages before the shooting saying they could expect packages Friday. Authorities were trying to intercept all of them, which were sent to several states.
May graduated from Florida State in 2005 and earned a law degree at Texas Tech University. He worked as a lawyer in Texas and New Mexico before returning about three weeks ago to Florida. He has family in Ohio, where he was born.
May posted on his Facebook page links to information on alleged government mind-reading and he believed the government was spying on him. He made rambling statements to police and a former girlfriend. He abruptly quit his job and headed back to Florida, staying with friends and giving no hint about his violent plans until early Thursday when he headed to his alma mater.
"Mr. May's sense of being and place in our community was not what most people would refer to as a normal," DeLeo said. "He had a sense of crisis and he was searching for something."
At Strozier Library, about 450 students were studying when May showed up and opened fire. When police arrived, the 31-year-old alumnus had wounded two students and an employee and reloaded a .380 semi-automatic pistol. He refused to put down the weapon and a gun battle erupted. Between May and police, 30 rounds were fired.
May didn't get past the lobby, but the sound of gunfire set off screams among students, who scrambled for cover among the bookshelves and barricaded themselves in rooms.
Vice President of Student Affairs Mary Coburn said Friday that a security system was put in place at the library after May graduated. It requires a student to swipe a student ID in order to get past a turnstile. May apparently was unable to move further into the library because of the obstacle.
Florida State President John Thrasher greeted students Friday as the library reopened with a heavy police presence.
Friends called May sweet, smart and understated. He returned to Florida to get a new start in life.
"His fraternity nickname was 'Sensitive Joe' and it was fitting," said state Rep. Matt Gaetz, who belonged to the same Florida State political club as May. "I was so surprised that someone with this docile nature would have something happen in their lives that would have this outcome."
There were signs of his unraveling.
Police in Las Cruces, New Mexico, said a former girlfriend called to report he came to her home uninvited and claimed police were bugging his house and car. Danielle Nixon told police May recently developed "a severe mental disorder."
"Myron began to ramble and handed her a piece to a car and asked her to keep it because this was a camera that police had put in his vehicle," a police report said.
Police were still going through May's writings and social media posts, but it was clear something was wrong.
"Mr. May had a written journal and videos where he expressed fears of being targeted and that he wanted to bring attention to this issue of targeting," DeLeo said. "Mr. May was in a state of crisis."
Abigail Taunton, who runs a foster home in the Florida Panhandle, let May stay in a guest house. She knew him as a teenager who moved to rural Wewahitchka in the Florida Panhandle to live with his grandmother after having problems with his parents in Ohio.
"We're just all astounded," Taunton said. "Obviously, he was not in his right mind."
May was licensed to practice law in Texas and New Mexico and Taunton said he was preparing to take the Florida bar exam in February.
"He was having some financial issues and moved back home and decided he'd come back to Florida to work," she said. "My heart's broken."
In New Mexico, Third Judicial District Attorney Mark D'Antonio said May worked for his office as a junior attorney from Jan. 18 until his unexpected resignation Oct. 6. He said he didn't know why May stepped down, leaving a formal resignation letter on his desk.
"He performed his job with great distinction," D'Antonio said at a news conference. "He was friendly and kind. Everyone liked him."


Read More:
Florida State University, 
Florida State, 
Shootings, 
Shooter, 
Myron May, 
Tallahassee, 
Florida, 
Virginia, 
Packages, 
Suspicious Package, 
Nation, 
NewsChannel 8, 
FSU








Recommended For You










More in "Nation"



Sandy Hook killer was 'appeased' by school and parents, study says



With snow still piled high, Buffalo faces flooding



Ferguson 'on edge' as they brace for grand jury decision












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Why you shouldn’t reach for that $100 bill on your windshield









D.C. Police: Dunbar High School staffer sexually abused boy, possibly others
















At house fire, man tells ABC 7 News crew: ‘I set it on fire’









Feds look into possible Fairfax County suicide clusters









Packages from Florida State shooter seized by feds









Florida State gunman mails mystery package to friends just before shootings









Virginia is most expensive state for grocery shoppers





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions
Sinclair Digital Solutions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service












 

