Struggling Virginia takes on No. 2 Florida State | WJLA.com
Struggling Virginia takes on No. 2 Florida State | WJLA.com










WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






SPORTS
Struggling Virginia takes on No. 2 Florida State

By The Associated Press

			November 7, 2014 - 09:48 pm 
		







The Cavaliers beat the Seminoles 14-13 in 2011. (AP file photo) 














Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -  Times have surely changed for Virginia since it last played at No. 2 Florida State.
 
	Continue reading


	
The Cavaliers beat the Seminoles 14-13 in 2011 on their way to the Chick-fil-A Bowl. Now, Virginia is riding a three-game losing streak that has derailed its season and had left the Cavaliers needing to beat the odds to qualify for a bowl game and possibly save coach Mike London's job.
	
The Cavaliers (4-5, 2-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) face the daunting task of winning at least two of their last three games to reach their first bowl game since the 2011 season.
	
And with a schedule that starts with the No. 2 defending national champion Seminoles (8-0, 5-0, No. 2 CFP) and also includes red-hot Miami and rival Virginia Tech, the odds are not looking all that promising.
	
The Seminoles, meantime, have won 24 in a row and are led by Heisman Trophy Jameis Winston. They  haven't been beaten in a conference home game since that night three years ago.
	
Still, coach Jimbo Fisher sees the Cavaliers team that rode an effective, ball-hawking defense to a 4-2 start as a dangerous opponent, especially because it has virtually run out of room to lose again.
	
"I think any team is. Whether it's Virginia or anybody else," Fisher said of teams in desperation mode. "People know that they have to do things and it's amazing what the mind can do when it has to do it.
	
"Kind of like us when we come from behind. I mean, our guys say, 'We have to do this' and you lock in. Virginia's a very talented team and a very well-coached team. And we have to play great football."
	
Beyond dreams of finishing the year in a bowl game, the Cavaliers are also facing another motivation: Avoiding a third consecutive loss that could cost London his job.
	
"He was the one who brought me in because, at first, I didn't have an offer from UVa," senior linebacker Daquan Romero said of London, in his fifth season. "So of course you've got to play for him. Some of the stuff he taught me, it's not just about football but about the man, his morals and the way he lives his life, everyday life. Of course you have to play for him. He gave me the opportunity to come to a great university. Academics, football, doing things I love. ... You play your heart out for him."
	
The Cavaliers seemed to be heading in the right direction a month ago.
	
They were 4-2 before losing 20-13 at Duke. They then lost 28-27 to North Carolina and were thumped 35-10 last Saturday at Georgia Tech.
	
After forcing 19 turnovers and turning them into 72 points in its first six games, Virginia has forced just two turnovers in its last three contests, and scored just six points of those takeaways.
	
Also, in their past four games, the Cavaliers have been outscored 47-6 after halftime.
	
Senior tight end Zach Swanson, who played on that bowl team in 2011 and has seen Virginia win just 10 of 33 games since, said players are drawing their motivation from a variety of areas.
	
"We're playing for coach London, we're playing for our teammates, we're playing for the season, we're playing for a bowl game," he said this week. "We have three more opportunities to win two and I think it's a big thing for us to get these wins, and play hard, for whatever our reasons may be."
	
Figuring things out now would help erase a lot of frustration, especially for the 22 seniors who went through the 4-8 and 2-10 seasons the last two years and resolved to make certain this would be different.
	
"It's been tough to try to figure out why we're losing, how to turn it around, and then, when we do win, how do we keep that level?" said Swanson, who has just seven catches this season, and about as many drops. "Why don't we have winning seasons? Why don't we win games? Why don't we have successful second halves? Why aren't drives successful? Each time, (the answer is) something a little bit different."
Some things to watch Saturday when No. 2 Florida State hosts Virginia:
	
FRESHMAN FLOW: Florida State had true freshman account for four touchdowns during the come-from-behind win against Louisville last week. Running back Dalvin Cook and receiver Travis Rudolph have both earned major roles in the offense and surpassed upperclassmen on the depth chart. Receiver Ermon Lane is not as polished, but is contributing more.  The future is now for the next generation of FSU offensive stars.
	
BRINGING HEAT: Florida State linebacker Reggie Northrup quietly leads the team with 67 tackles and ranks No. 11 in the ACC. Part of that is because linebacker Terrance Smith has missed two games, but the junior recorded a career-high 12 tackles last week. Northrup has lapses where he gets out of position, but he may be the hardest hitter on the roster. Nearly every game he has at least one hit that rocks an opponent and fires up teammates.
	
OPEN IT UP: Virginia (4-5, 2-3) has opted for a more conservative offensive approach for much of this season, hoping to control the ball while defense kept the Cavaliers in games. Against a team the quality of the Seminoles, and with its backs to the wall in pursuit of a .500 record and a bowl berth, Virginia would be wise to throw caution to the wind a few times in hopes of getting some quick strike points.
	
TAKE IT AWAY: The Cavaliers forced 19 turnovers and turned them into 72 points in their first six games. In the last three games, all losses, the totals are two forced turnovers leading to six points. Finding a way to get back to their previous ball-hawking ways could go a long way for the underdogs. 



Read More:
College Football, 
Virginia Cavaliers, 
Florida State Seminoles, 
Florida State, 
University Of Virginia








Recommended For You










More in "Sports"



Backup quarterback Leal leaves Virginia Tech



Nationals hire Bob Miller as assistant GM



NASCAR Phoenix 2014: Harvick doesn’t regret shoving Keselowski to start brawl (Video)












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Immigration dispute erupts at Obama's White House lunch with Congressional leaders









Maryland woman who claimed to have found abandoned newborn baby turns out to be infant's mother
















Robin Williams autopsy results released; death officially ruled suicide









Most expensive home for sale in the U.S. costs $195 million









Alleged middle school ‘butt grabber’ worked in 58 MCPS schools; arrest record includes previous sexu









Texas family asks robbers to turn themselves in, offers to pay for their education









2014 Complete Local Election Results for D.C., Maryland and Virginia





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions
Sinclair Digital Solutions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service












 

