Maryland vs. Florida State: Terrapins carry 4-0 record to Tallahassee | WJLA.com
Maryland vs. Florida State: Terrapins carry 4-0 record to Tallahassee | WJLA.com











WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






SPORTS
Maryland vs. Florida State: Terrapins carry 4-0 record to Tallahassee



			October 4, 2013 - 01:29 pm 
		


















Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				




(WJLA) - The 25th ranked Maryland Terrapins are trying to keep everything in perspective, but there is no denying the magnitude of Saturday’s showdown with the #8 team in America, the Florida State Seminoles, in Tallahassee.
Continue reading





Maryland carries a 4-0 record and a #25 ranking into Saturday's tilt with FSU. Photo: Associated Press



Still riding the momentum of their 37-0 dismantling of the West Virginia Mountaineers, the 4-0 Terps are the surprise of the ACC, and have cracked the top 25 rankings for the first time in three years.
The Seminoles, though, present the greatest challenge that Maryland has faced thus far this season.
"We're 4-0, they're 4-0," senior quarterback C.J. Brown said. "It's a nationally televised game and it doesn't get any better than that."
To stay unbeaten, Maryland will have to contain Florida State's freshman quarterback sensation, Jameis Winston. The young quarterback is living up to his nickname, "Famous Jameis" so far in his college career.
Winston is boasting a stratospheric completion percentage thus far this season - 73.6 percent - and has thrown 12 touchdowns to just two interceptions. His most notable throw came just before last week's win over Boston College; a Hail Mary touchdown pass that put his Seminoles ahead for good.
"He's a strong, tough guy that's hard to bring down," Maryland head coach Randy Edsall said. "He's got good escapability and a strong arm. He's a good quarterback."
The Maryland offense is centered around C.J. Brown, who leads the ACC in total offense and has accounted for 13 touchdowns so far this season.
But the Seminoles defense will undoubtedly have to key in on all-around athlete Stefon Diggs, who can burn teams with his speed at receiver and on special teams.
"They rotate a lot of bodies, they have a lot of experience in secondary and at the linebacker level. It will be a good challenge for us," said Brown.
Maryland knows that a rare win in Tallahassee would go a long way toward establishing themselves as a conference title contender.
"It's the biggest game because it's the next game. We're extremely proud of where we're at, but we're not where we need to be," Terrapins offensive lineman Sal Conaboy said.




Read More:
Maryland Terrapins, 
Florida State Seminoles, 
College Football, 
Football, 
ACC, 
Sportstalk, 
NewsChannel 8








Recommended For You










More in "Sports"



RG3 campaigns for quarterback on Election Day



Flames beat Capitals, Ovechkin 4-3 in OT



Wizards top Knicks for fourth straight time, 98-83












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



2014 Election Results for D.C., Maryland and Virginia









Mother of 3 shot, set on fire, found dead in Southeast D.C.; Police search for her killer
















Marijuana legalization embraced by D.C. voters









Maryland Governor: Hogan pulls off unexpected upset of Brown









Virginia Senate: Warner holds off Gillespie in closer than expected race









Larry Hogan, Anthony Brown trade accusations, attacks in NewsChannel 8's Maryland gubernatorial deba









D.C. mayoral race competitive, not necessarily close





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service












 

