Package from FSU gunman Myron May found in Texas - Story | abcactionnews.com | Tampa Bay News, Weather, Sports, Things To Do | WFTS-TV
Package from FSU gunman Myron May found in Texas - Story | abcactionnews.com | Tampa Bay News, Weather, Sports, Things To Do | WFTS-TV





 










WFTS








Story Links
Mobile Apps
Email Alerts
Contests
Tampa Bay Jobs










Weather
Mostly cloudy
74°
More Weather








Traffic
current alerts
6
More Traffic






























Home


Sections


Back


Featured


Back






News


Back
All News
Local
Florida
I-Team
Dirty Dining
Politics
Health
Obits
Story Links
DecodeDC
Financial Fitness Zone
The Now Tampa Bay






Video


Back
All Video
ABC Action News Now!
Latest Video
YouTube Channel






Photos


Back
All Photos






Taking Action


Back
All Taking Action
ShopSmart
Don’t Waste Your Money
Angies List
I-Team
Taking Action Against Domestic Violence
Crime Stoppers
Angel Tree






Sports


Back
All Sports
Rays
Buccaneers
Lightning
The Plank - Bucs web show






Entertainment


Back
All Entertainment
Watch ABC
The List
Let's Ask America
Right This Minute
TV Guide
Horoscopes
Games
The Oscars
Scripps Spelling Bee
Live Well Network
Laff TV
Grit TV






Lifestyle


Back
All Lifestyle
Parenting
Outdoors
Tech
Events
Entertainment






Marketplace


Back
All Marketplace
Autos
Tampa Bay Jobs
TampaBayLaw.TV
Sponsored Web Chat
University Village






About Us


Back
All About Us
Mobile Apps
Staff
Community
Jobs
Contests
Contact
Email Alerts
Advertise with Us






Social Media


Back
All Social Media
Twitter
Google Plus
Facebook
YouTube








Weather




Back

All Weather
Today's Forecast
7-Day
Dayplanner
Radars And Maps
Interactive Radar
Hurricane Center
Weather Chat
Weather Alerts







Traffic









Traffic
current alerts
6
More Traffic











Alerts






Belichick addresses DeflateGate, passes to Brady

+ 1 More 
      Alert
  







Officer-involved shooting in St. Petersburg









1

      Weather Alert
  







	            	Lake Wind Advisory issued January 23 at 3:16AM EST expiring January 24 at 7:00PM EST in effect for: DeSoto, Hardee, Highlands, Pinellas, Polk, Sumter
	            




1 
      Weather Alert
  

































Site
Web



Relevance
Date






































Package from FSU gunman Myron May found in Texas



                    BRENDAN FARRINGTON and GARY FINEOUT 
        
                                                            
11:38 AM, Nov 21, 2014


9:15 PM, Nov 21, 2014














Previous



Next













A day after a shooting injured three at FSU, the campus reopened its library.
WFTS












FSU library reopens day after school shooting
WFTS












The uncle of Myron May says he was not a violent person. Police say May opened fire Thursday inside FSU's library.
WFTS











 Florida State University student Colleen Rick from Jupiter, Florida passes the flame to her fellow students during the Gathering of Unity candlelight vigil on campus after the shooting of three FSU students earlier in the day on November 20, 2014 in Tallahassee. 
Mark Wallheiser/Getty Images














Show Caption
Hide Caption










Previous



Next











































The first of several packages mailed by a man who shot three people at a Florida State University library was delivered in Texas, a law enforcement official said Friday.  	Authorities thought the packages could contain videos and journals from Myron May, who was killed by police officers outside the library Thursday, according to the official, who requested anonymity because that person wasn't authorized to release information about the case.  	   	Police obtained videos and journals Thursday that indicate May feared he was being watched and targeted by the government. Tallahassee Police Chief Michael DeLeo said May was trying to get that message out.  	   	May sent friends messages before the shooting saying they could expect packages Friday.   	   	Authorities were trying to intercept them, but they weren't sure where each of the packages was to be delivered. They believe they are being sent to several states.  	   	"To date, letters identified do not appear to pose a threat or contain hazardous items," The U.S. Postal Inspection Service said in an email to The Associated Press. The packages were in flat-rate, priority mail envelopes.  	   	May graduated from Florida State in 2005 and earned a law degree at Texas Tech University. He worked as a lawyer in Texas and New Mexico before returning about three weeks ago to Florida. He has family in Ohio, where he was born.  	   	May posted on his Facebook page links to information on alleged government mind-reading and he believed the government was spying on him. He made rambling statements to police and a former girlfriend. He abruptly quit his job and headed back to Florida, staying with friends and giving no hint about his violent plans until early Thursday when he headed to his alma mater.  	   	"Mr. May's sense of being and place in our community was not what most people would refer to as a normal," DeLeo said Thursday. "He had a sense of crisis and he was searching for something."  	   	At Strozier Library, about 450 students were studying when May showed up and opened fire. When police arrived, the 31-year-old alumnus had wounded two students and an employee and reloaded a .380 semi-automatic pistol.  	   	Elijah Valdez, 18, was grazed by a bullet, treated on scene and released.  	   	Nathan Scott, 30, is being treated at Tallahassee Memorial HealthCare.  	   	Farhan Ahmed, 21, is being treated at a local hospital.  	   	May refused to put down his weapon and a gun battle erupted. Between May and police, 30 rounds were fired.  	   	May didn't get past the lobby, but the sound of gunfire set off screams among students, who scrambled for cover among the bookshelves and barricaded themselves in rooms.  	   	Students and university administrators gathered Friday morning as the library reopened with a heavy police presence.  	   	Friends called May sweet, smart and understated. He returned to Florida to get a new start in life.  	   	"His fraternity nickname was 'Sensitive Joe' and it was fitting," said state Rep. Matt Gaetz, who belonged to the same Florida State political club as May. "I was so surprised that someone with this docile nature would have something happen in their lives that would have this outcome."  	   	There were signs of his unraveling.  	   	Police in Las Cruces, New Mexico, said a former girlfriend called to report he came to her home uninvited and claimed police were bugging his house and car. Danielle Nixon told police May recently developed "a severe mental disorder."  	   	"Myron began to ramble and handed her a piece to a car and asked her to keep it because this was a camera that police had put in his vehicle," a police report said.  	   	Police were still going through May's writings and social media posts, but it was clear something was wrong.  	   	"Mr. May had a written journal and videos where he expressed fears of being targeted and that he wanted to bring attention to this issue of targeting," DeLeo said. "Mr. May was in a state of crisis."  	   	Abigail Taunton, who runs a foster home in the Florida Panhandle, let May stay in a guest house. She knew him as a teenager who moved to rural Wewahitchka in the Florida Panhandle to live with his grandmother after having problems with his parents in Ohio.  	   	"We're just all astounded," Taunton said. "Obviously, he was not in his right mind."  	   	May was licensed to practice law in Texas and New Mexico and Taunton said he was preparing to take the Florida bar exam in February.  	   	"He was having some financial issues and moved back home and decided he'd come back to Florida to work," she said. "My heart's broken."  	   	In New Mexico, Third Judicial District Attorney Mark D'Antonio said May worked for his office as a junior attorney from Jan. 18 until his unexpected resignation Oct. 6. He said he didn't know why May stepped down, leaving a formal resignation letter on his desk.  	   	"He performed his job with great distinction," D'Antonio said at a news conference. "He was friendly


and kind. Everyone liked him."  	   



Prev
Next



Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Print this article
Back to Top






A
Share



A
A
A






Share Article

 
 
 
 






Related


Police identify victims in FSU shooting


VIDEO: Terrifying moments of gunman at FSU


Estero student at FSU: 'I don't want to die'


Suspected FSU gunman's family: 'He's no monster'


VIDEO: Inside suspected FSU gunman's cottage


FSU mom: 'I was blowing his phone up'


Police: FSU gunman thought he was being targeted


2 students, 1 employee shot at FSU library


FSU Shooting unfolds online with social media


FSU student witnessed shooting chaos


FSU student says books in backpack saved him


Gunman killed after shooting at FSU, 3 injured



































































Comments










































































































Top Stories Trending Now















































ABC Action News Now News Video Traffic Taking Action for You Sports Entertainment Marketplace



ABC ACTION NEWS
Advertise with UsContact UsStation JobsStaffLinksDWYMTV Listings SHARE Your PhotosLet's Ask AmericaRight This MinuteThe List


			Mobile Apps
ABC ACTION NEWSiPhone iPad Kindle AndroidStorm ShieldiPhone Android


			Stay Connected
 facebook twitter  pinterest youtube Newsletters

TampaBayLaw.TV Tampa Bankruptcy Lawyer Tampa Foreclosure Defense Tampa DUI LawyerTampa Criminal DefenseLawyer Tampa Medical Malpractice Lawyer Tampa Worker's Comp Lawyer Tampa Family Law LawyerTampa Social Security Disability Lawyer Tampa Real Estate Lawyer Trinity Car AccidentLawyer Tampa Personal Injury Lawyer

Scripps TV Station Group © 2014 The E.W. Scripps Co

Privacy Policy Terms of Use EEO FCC Public File













 


