Florida State football recruiting update: Boston College visitors - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State football recruiting update: Boston College visitors - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Football


Florida State football recruiting update: Boston College visitors

    By Bud Elliott


@SBNRecruiting


    on Nov 23 2014, 2:11p

    

127











Left: Sweat, Right: Jones - Bud Elliott






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook






Now updated to reflect those who actually made it to the game. 




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




127


      Comments
    




Sunday morning update:
-The weather was terrible, and the mood wasn't great for a game. This was not an atmosphere that I would want to visit if I were a recruit, but at the same time, remember that the game is just a part of the visit. FSU usually knocks these out of the park.
-5-star DE Josh Sweat rolled up on a hoveround, but did get up and walk around. He's coming off a bad knee injury. I'm not confident that FSU signs him, but Virginia Tech's loss to Wake Forest Saturday is going to crank up the hot seat talk around Frank Beamer, and Sweat will be hearing about that in his home state of Virginia.





-JUCO DT commit D.J. Jones did make it in. He's easily 300+.

Had a good time at the game
— DJ Jones (@djjones_44) November 23, 2014




-2016 DE Janarius Robinson looks 30 years old. Amazing to me that he is a HS junior.
-A name I'll be keeping an eye out for is Alex Leatherwood, of Pensacola Booker T. Washington. 6'4 275 and very trim for a sophomore.





-I saw safety Romeo Finley, a 2016 prospect out of Niceville, in attendance as well.
Original
The recipe for national titles begins with bringing in more four- and five-star prospects than not. Florida State has done this under Jimbo Fisher, and only six programs have signed a higher ratio of blue chip talent than the Seminoles over the last four classes.
It continues this year, as 13 of Florida State's 20 commitments are rated four-stars or better. FSU is cleaning up in-state, with nine blue chip commits, compared to Miami's five and Florida's zero. This is shaping up to be another top-five class, and could finish as high as No. 2 (behind Alabama) if things break right. The Noles seem to have a very strong group of current commits trying to get other elite preps to join them in Tallahassee, often using the #Tribe15 hashtag on social media.
FSU loses 13 seniors to graduation, and could lose 6-10 underclassmen off the roster to the NFL draft or other opportunities. Florida State can sign up to 27 players in the 2014 class, although 25 is a more likely number. Given that Florida State may be losing 25 percent of its 2014 roster, having players enroll in January and go through spring practice is an important goal in what looks to be a bit of a rebuilding 2015 campaign.
Let's look at what FSU needs at each position, what it already has, and who it might target to fill those remaining needs.
QB
Florida State signed J.J. Cosentino in 2014, a strong-arm pro-style passer. Florida State is slated to return two quarterbacks in 2015, assuming Jameis Winston heads to the NFL, meaning that it needed to take two in this class. This is a rather poor year for quarterbacks East of the Mississippi, and FSU struck out on its top QB targets out West.
The Seminoles elected to combat the issue by using quantity. FSU currently has three quarterback recruits: De'Andre Johnson, Deondre Francois, and Kai Locksley. I addressed the situation in Will Florida State really sign three quarterbacks?. Very little has changed since then, though. Texas and Maryland are still interested in Locksley, but it's not all that likely that any of the three flip.
The new detail here is that FSU secured a commitment from 2016 QB Malik Henry, one of the best in the country. Will that knowledge weigh on the minds of any of the 2015 players? We'll have to wait and see.
Skill (RB/WR/TE)
Florida State signed seven skill players in 2014, including two excellent running backs, a terrific trio of receivers, and two very promising tight ends. Florida State will return 15 skill players in 2015. Assuming attrition of one, it will need to bring in five to seven skill players. Within that, it will need at least two backs, three receivers, and one tight end.
RB: Florida State currently has two four-star running backs committed in Jacques Patrick (Orlando Timber Creek) and Johnny Frazier (North Carolina). Together, they are the best tandem of running back commitments in the country, according to the 247sports composite ratings, although it should be noted that this is a down year for the position and there are no obvious five-star backs. Patrick is very solid to the Seminoles, but Frazier is openly flirting with Tennessee and N.C. State, and it's questionable if FSU will be able to retain him. Obviously, FSU is a better program than either of those two, but prospects value different things in their recruitment, like distance and playing time.
I was told Frazier is not in love with FSU taking Patrick's commitment, even though he knew it would be happening. FSU needs to get Frazier down for another visit.
There's a reason FSU is keeping contact with Miami four-star commit, Jordan Scarlett, of St. Thomas Aquinas. If Frasier leaves, expect the Seminoles to crank up the heat even more to try and flip him. However, that doesn't mean FSU can automatically flip Scarlett if Frazier bolts. I don't know where FSU would go if it loses Frasier and cannot flip Scarlett. It's possible they could pocket the scholarship and roll with Mario Pender, Ryan Green, Dalvin Cook, Jacques Patrick, and Freddie Stevenson (TB/FB) for 2015.
 
QB De'Andre Johnson QB Deondre FrancoisQB Kai LocksleyRB Jacques PatrickRB Johnny FrasierWR George CampbellWR Nyqwan MurrayWR Auden TateWRTE Jalen WilkersonOL Abdul BelloOL Cole MinshewOL David RobbinsOL Ethan Frith (?)OL ?DL D.J. JonesDL Darvin TaylorDL ?DL ?LB Brian BellLB Sh'Mar Kilby-LaneDB Derwin JamesDB Tarvarus McFaddenDB Calvin BrewtonDB A.J. WestbrookDB ?


WR: Florida State has three receivers committed in George Campbell (Tarpon Springs East Lake), Nyqwan Murray (Orlando Oak Ridge), and Auden Tate (Tampa Wharton). I believe all three are four-star caliber players, and Campbell, if he continues to improve his catching, could be a fringe five-star type. His athleticism is already there. Tate compares to a Willie Haulstead big-body type, and Murray compares to Bobo Wilson or Kenny Shaw with his ability to work in the slot.
While not publicly committed, strong sources consider Miami Central WR Da'Vante Phillips to be committed. He'll announce at one of the all-star games in January. Phillips is not a burner, but he has very strong hands, is very physical and will be a major red zone weapon. FSU will continue to try and flip Calvin Ridley (Pompano Beach Monarch). Ridley is committed to Alabama, and the Alabama folks I speak to feel he is solid to them. Even if FSU cannot flip Ridley, adding Phillips to the four committed would be an excellent haul. Given the emergence of Ermon Lane and Travis Rudolph as freshmen, it'll be interesting to see what happens with Isaiah Jones, who is academically ineligible for 2014 but will have three years of eligibility remaining. However, that's more of a question for the 2016 class.
Update: It looks like FSU will have to fend off Michigan (where he is visiting this weekend) and probably UF for Auden Tate. I don't believe FSU will have room for slot receiver, Ryan Davis, and I mention him only because folks keep asking about him. I am not high on Davis and would save the scholarship for 2016 if given the choice.
TE: Florida State loses Nick O'Leary and Kevin Haplea, but returns three other scholarship tight ends. FSU would like to carry five on scholarship, if possible. The Noles have a commitment from Jalen Wilkerson (Coffee County, Georgia). Wilkerson is athletic, but is unlikely to be an instant-impact player. Tight end is a tough position to learn as a freshman, due to blocking and route running requirements. I don't think FSU is in on any other big tight ends at the moment, but I wouldn't rule out the staff moving on a tight end who emerges as a senior.
Of course, there's also the consideration of keeping the tight end depth chart attractive for 2016, as FSU is in great position for Isaac Nauta, who is moving to Florida and will be attending the IMG Academy in Bradenton. Nauta is currently the best tight end prospect in his class.
OL
Florida State cleaned up along the offensive line on National Signing Day, bringing in seven fantastic offensive linemen. They'll return 10 offensive linemen in 2015, along with attrition of one or none. Teams typically want to carry 15-18 offensive linemen, but FSU may want to space it out a bit between years, so four to six seems about right.
FSU has three commits listed right now: Abdul Bello (Montverde Academy), Cole Minshew (Georgia Coffee County), and David Robbins (Glenelg, MD). Bello is extremely athletic but raw; Minshew is an absolute steal that Georgia has to be kicking itself for not offering earlier; and Robbins is a promising prospect at center or guard.
Here's Robbins' updated film, e-mailed to me by his father Friday.




A source also told me over the summer that FSU still planned to stick with Ethan Frith, who delayed his enrollment to have shoulder surgery so that he wouldn't lose a year of eligibility due to injury. Frith told me he still plans to be at FSU and his surgery went well. We'll see if that still happens.
FSU is still pursuing Jalen Merrick, of New Smyrna Beach. Merrick projects as a guard, although he could play right tackle. FSU is battling Florida and Arkansas for his services. Any way you slice it, FSU's two-year haul on the offensive line is great. Merrick was over the moon during his last visit, and he'll return to Tallahassee for the Florida game. He'll be at Arkansas this weekend.
DL
FSU signed a monster class of defensive linemen, seven in all on National Signing Day 2014. Florida State will return 16 defensive linemen in 2015. Assuming attrition of four, it needs to bring in at least four in the 2015 class.
Florida State has two commitments on the defensive line: JUCO D.J. Jones, and Darvin Taylor (Virginia). Taylor is very solid, but FSU will have to fight any number of SEC schools to keep Jones' commitment.
Jones recently visited Auburn, and told Rivals that he had a four of Alabama, Ole Miss, Auburn and South Carolina, in addition to being committed to FSU ($). He is expected in Tallahassee this weekend.

Tallahassee tomorrow
— DJ Jones (@djjones_44) November 21, 2014

Another defensive tackle, like Neville Gallimore, of Ontario (CN), would be nice, but don't expect FSU to grab a random body. Gallimore has visited FSU and Oklahoma, and will visit Auburn and Ohio State in the coming weeks. The DT crop in the state this year is terrible.
Defensive end is where the focus is right now. FSU is still whale hunting with five-star ends: Josh Sweat, Terry Beckner, and Byron Cowart. FSU's chances with the four are somewhat questionable, but it's always nice to at least be in the running.
Sweat is set to visit this weekend. FSU does a great job with official visits, and Sweat will have tons of personal attention, but I'm not that confident the Seminoles can reel him in. Sweat is a quiet, family-oriented kid, and my gut says Virginia Tech wins out in the end, keeping him close to home. However, I don't think he's a lock to any program. He's also considering and has visited UGA.
Cowart told Josh Newberg of Noles247 ($) that FSU is his new leader. He followed that up by saying the same to Derek Tyson of ESPN. I believe he said that to Newberg, and he may like Florida State, but Cowart goes to Armwood High School, and Armwood players simply have not signed with Florida State. If the Gators retain defensive line coach Brad Lawing (I'd keep him if I was the new coach of the Gators), you have to like UF's chances. Alabama is also still in the mix for Cowart.
FSU is also interested in Shelton Johnson, a developmental pass rusher out of Delray Beach Atlantic. They seem to have a good shot at him, as well. Johnson visited with his mother recently, and I expect the Seminoles to land the long pass rusher.
I don't expect FSU to reach too far if it strikes out on the big four, as the Noles are set to have the best pair of defensive end recruits in the 2016 class.
One of those guys, 2016 commit, Janarius Robinson, sent me his junior film. He has excellent closing speed.




LB
FSU signed a great linebacker class on National Signing Day 2014 and will return eight linebackers in 2015. Assuming no attrition, it will need to bring in at least two linebackers, and it's done so in Brian Bell, of Valdosta (Ga.) and Sh'Mar Kilby-Lane, of Hallandale (Fla.). This is a solid pair of linebackers and given the lack of linebacker talent in the state, this is not the year to reach for an extra player. I was asked if FSU will be taking another linebacker after the dismissal of Ukeme Eligwe. The answer? Not unless a great player wants to come aboard.
DB
FSU needs to hit a home run in the defensive backfield in this class.
Florida State signed a pair of talented defensive backs in 2014. FSU will return 12 defensive backs, but attrition of three should be expected, meaning FSU needs to take at least five in its 2015 class.
Right now, FSU has four committed: Derwin James (Haines City), Tarvarus McFadden (American Heritage), Calvin Brewton (Miami Central), and A.J. Westbrook (Daytona Mainland). James is far and away the best safety in the country, and McFadden is one of the top five cornerbacks in the country. Brewton and Westbrook are nice, versatile pieces as well.
McFadden cancelled his visit to Georgia last weekend, which is big news for FSU's chances of holding on to the star corner.
FSU is still pursuing corners Minkah Fitzpatrick (Alabama commit), and Davante Davis of Miami Booker T. Washington, who is also being pursued by Florida, Miami, Georgia and others. Then there's the Texas trio of Kris Boyd, Kendall Sheffield, and Holton Hill. I think Boyd is the most likely of the trio.
Alabama believes it will hold on to Fitzpatrick, and the New Jersey corner is visiting the Tide for the Iron Bowl next weekend.
Keeping McFadden in the fold and landing one of Fitzpatrick, Davis, Hill, Sheffield, or Boyd would be a home run for the Seminoles.



More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




127


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







In This Article
Teams


American




Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































