Florida Gators' uncertainty alters Sunshine State recruiting - SBNation.com 
Florida Gators' uncertainty alters Sunshine State recruiting - SBNation.com











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search



















×
Don't Miss The Next Amazing Sports Moment










College Football
College Football Recruiting


Florida Gators' uncertainty alters Sunshine State recruiting

    By Bud Elliott


@SBNRecruiting


    on Oct 31 2014, 2:38p

    

98













Florida State and Miami are holding their own in the state. But with the Gators struggling, out-of-state schools are swooping in. Can Florida turn it around?




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




98


      Comments
    


⋆
Rec
 Recommend this Post

      3
    




California. Texas. Florida. The big three states in college football recruiting are recruited by almost every school, regardless of distance. And often, whoever controls those states is near the top of the college football world.
The state has 46 blue-chip prospects this year, and 32 are currently verbally committed.





This year, Florida State controls the Sunshine State, with nine commitments rating four- or five-stars on the 247Sports Composite, including four of the state's top 10 in safety Derwin James (Haines City), cornerback Tarvarus McFadden (Ft. Lauderdale's American Heritage), running back Jacques Patrick (Orlando's Timber Creek) and receiver George Campbell (Tarpon Springs' East Lake), having added Patrick and McFadden just this week. Twelve of Florida State's 20 commitments come from the Sunshine State, and the class ranks second only in the country to Alabama.
The team with the second-most blue-chips from Florida? Miami, with five, including a trio of running backs in Jordan Scarlett (Ft. Lauderdale's St. Thomas Aquinas), Mark Walton (Miami's Booker T. Washington) and Dexter Williams (Orlando's West Orange). In all, 15 of Miami's 20 commitments are from the state.
Prospects leaving the state
One emerging trend is the number of top prospects who are leaving the state. Only 14 of the state's 32 currently committed blue-chip recruits are committed to Florida schools (43 percent). That percentage is lower in comparison to the 50 percent mark of the 2014 class, the 46 percent from 2013, the 47 percent in 2012 or the 51 percent in 2011.
This year, the team with the third-most blue-chip recruits from Florida is actually Clemson, with four, including five-star receiver Deon Cain (Tampa Bay Tech), receiver Ray Ray McCloud III (Tampa Sickles), offensive tackle Jake Fruhmorgen (Tampa Plant) and tight end Garrett Williams (Orlando First Academy).
The teams with the next most? Alabama and West Virginia, tied with three apiece.











 More from our team site 


Florida Gators

Follow






 More from our team site 

Florida Gators blog Alligator Army


Gators
One major reason for the increase in talent fleeing? Florida. The Gators do not have a single four- or five-star recruit committed from the Sunshine State. In fact, Florida has only two prospects rated in the top 100 -- Nos. 57 and 95. Only four of Florida's nine commitments are from the state. Over the last four classes, the Gators have signed 34 Florida preps rated four- or five-stars, so this is wildly out of the norm.
Prospects speak well of Florida's young, energetic staff. It connects well with recruits. But given the uncertainty going forward with the future of coach Will Muschamp, recruits are taking a wait-and-see approach to pledging for the Gators.
Sports Illustrated's Pete Thamel reported that other Florida commitments have looked into flipping their pledges, only to be turned away.

Just how tough has it gotten for embattled Florida coach Will Muschamp? So much that an SEC assistant told The Inside Read that his program has turned away several Gators commitments who want to change their pledges. "We like who we got better," the assistant said.

That could change, of course, as some of the state's top prospects are still considering the Gators.
Uncommitted
Let's look at where the remaining blue-chip prospects in the state may be leaning.

Offensive tackle Martez Ivey, of Apopka, is a battle between the Gators and the Auburn Tigers.
Defensive end Byron Cowart, of Seffner Armwood, is also considering Alabama, Oregon, and FSU, but the vast majority of recruiting experts see him in orange and blue.
CeCe Jefferson, of Baker County, is enamored with Ole Miss and interested in Alabama, but is still expected to sign with the Gators at this point.
Athlete Torrance Gibson, of Ft. Lauderdale (Fla.) American Heritage appears headed to Ohio State to play QB in Urban Meyer's spread option attack. Many schools believe he could be a great receiver. 
Receiver Da'Vante Phillips, of Miami (Fla.) Central is considered a lock to Florida State.
Florida is very much in the mix for four-star lineman Kendrick Norton and four-star linebacker Jeffrey Holland, both of Jacksonville's Trinity Christian, with Auburn being the biggest competition there.
Miami appears to be in a strong position for tight end/defensive end Devonaire Clarington, of Miami (Fla.) Booker T. Washington.
Athlete Tim Irvin, of Miami (Fla.) Westminster Christian, is strongly considering Miami and has interest in Florida, as well.
Guard Jalen Merrick, of New Smyrna Beach, is very interested in Florida, Florida State, Arkansas and Miami.
Cornerback Davante Davis, of Miami (Fla.) Booker T. Washington, is going to be a very interesting battle between Miami, Florida State, Florida, Ohio State and Georgia, with plenty of official visits left.
Receiver Ryan Davis, of St. Petersburg Lakewood High School is picked by many to attend Florida State, but Florida seems like the much smarter bet at this point, as FSU seems unlikely to have an open scholarship at the position with three current commits and Phillips on the way.

It's also worth keeping an eye on receiver Antonio Callaway, of Miami Booker T. Washington, and defensive end Shelton Johnson, of Delray Beach Atlantic, both of whom are quickly rising up the recruiting rankings. Callaway will be an intense Florida-Miami battle, and Florida State is hot after Johnson.
Despite having such a poor class on Halloween, all is not lost in Gainesville. But it also doesn't appear that recruits are in any hurry to make a move until they determine whether Florida will make one of its own.
DT particularly weak
Schools looking for defensive tackle help are advised to look outside the Sunshine State this year, as no defensive tackles are currently ranked in the top 120.


More from SBNation.com

The top 100 college football games of 2014
Under Harbaugh, the Michigan way will actually work
Bama will have No. 1 class again. Who'll rank No. 2?
When Lane Kiffin had the original #Deflategate
Muschamp "unlikely" to leave Auburn for NFL
Bill Belichick, please come coach college football
Super Bowl 2015 rooting interests for college fans
5 different players can claim title of No. 1 2015 recruit
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




98


      Comments
    


⋆
Rec
 Recommend this Post

      3
    






Share
Share on Facebook















Latest News


Why did we hate Bud Selig so much?
Draymond Green and the rise of 'situational stars'
Senior Bowl NFL Draft stock report
How Harbaugh's Michigan will work
How to love Bill Belichick
Papelbon could finally be traded
The 7 schools with big recruiting weekends
Federer falls to Andreas Seppi in third round
Curry leads NBA All-Star starters
Seahawks WR fined $11K for perceived gesture







In This Article
Teams


American


Players


Shelton Johnson (DB-Wisconsin)







































Trending Discussions


Tom Brady, Patriots have too many ways to beat you
NFL finds Pats used deflated footballs, per report
Don't go crazy over DeflateGate
Everything you need to know about DeflateGate
How the Seahawks saved their season in 6 minutes
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
Can the Seahawks stop Aaron Rodgers?
NFL investigating Patriots for deflating footballs
Russell Wilson moved to tears in emotional victory
Luke Willson, the workin' man's Gronk
































SBNation.com

Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at SBNation.com. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at SBNation.com. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data


































