Florida State preseason football preview: Clemson - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State preseason football preview: Clemson - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Football


Florida State preseason football preview: Clemson

    By Bud Elliott


@SBNRecruiting


    on Aug 20 2014, 8:57a

    

263











Streeter Lecka






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook










Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




263


      Comments
    




Week 1: Georgia outgained Clemson by 94 yards before garbage time, but that doesn't tell the whole story. UGA outgained the Tigers by 70 percent per play!
Clemson's defense hung tight with the Dawgs for the first 11 drives, allowing 50-258 (5.16/play) and only 17 offensive points (UGA did have a KO returned for TD). But on the final four drives, UGA ran off 15 plays for 201 yards (13.4/play), three touchdowns and a five-minute game-ending drive to kill the clock. That includes single-play drives of 47 and 51 yards (TD runs).





Why the huge difference?
For one, UGA gave the ball more to Todd Gurley. But Clemson's defense was also gassed because its offense was atrocious in the second half, gaining only 15 yards on 22 plays. Seriously. Less than 12 minutes of possession time in the second half.
Clemson could not run the ball with its backs (76 on 24 carries), and UGA did not have to commit that much to stopping the run, meaning that Clemson's inexperienced receiving corps had to face cornerbacks who had a lot of help from safeties.
Preseason
Tomahawk Nation is setting up preview pages for each of Florida State's football opponents. This is the page for Clemson. Florida State hosts Clemson on September 20, after a bye week, and it is FSU's most important game of the year.
It's the biggest not because Clemson is Florida State's rival -- it is assuredly not. But rather, because Florida State probably cannot play for the conference title without beating Clemson.
8/20 Update: Paul Myerberg, of USA Today, dropped his preview. He is a snippet, please click on over to read the whole thing.






Yeah, Clemson has some daunting personnel losses to overcome - nearly all on offense, however. This still remains a wildly dangerous team, one more than capable of another double-digit regular season should the new cast come together before hitting against Georgia and Florida State in September. I can think of two reasons in particular why any sense of pessimism seems unfounded: one, the offense still has Morris calling the shots, and two, this seems very much like the best defense of Swinney's tenure with the program. When it comes to the offense, it's possible to understand the losses yet still remain optimistic - because Morris is the finest offensive coordinator in college football.
I think the offense remains among the top three in the ACC. The biggest decline will be seen in general explosiveness: Clemson lacks the big-play threats at receiver, obviously, but also at running back; that means longer, more consistent drives rather than downfield strikes. That, in turn, demands reliability from quarterback: Stoudt's under some major pressure. At some point, Watson will take on more and more of the offense; Stoudt stills holds the key, however, particularly in the opener against Georgia. Clemson still has enough weapons to maintain at least a strong portion of its recent successes - and let's remember that Morris is still around, in case I hadn't mentioned that already.
But what makes Clemson a potential sleeper is this defense. The line might be the best in college football. It's a group that will trickle down throughout the entire defense, giving Anthony and these linebackers room to operate and the secondary - the cornerbacks in particular - time to develop. In fact, one could make a simple case: If the offense remains stout, Clemson will have incredibly impressive balance. Will it be enough to carry the Tigers past Georgia, FSU and the Gamecocks? It won't be easy. But taking just one of the three - and it won't be FSU, sadly - would leave Clemson with a very good chance at double-digit wins and a spot well inside the top 15 teams nationally. That Georgia comes on the road is one issue; that the Tigers seem unable to beat FSU and Carolina is another.

8/1 update: As I was going through my RSS reader, I came across the new weights listed for the Clemson Tiger offensive tackles. Clemson's S&C program has long been a point of complaint for fans and, privately, some within the program. After seeing these, it's hard to disagree. Clemson's top three tackles are Joe Gore, Shaq Anthony and Isaiah Battle. They weighed in at 283, 276 and 285, respectively. I get that Clemson is an up-tempo spread offense and that linemen perhaps need to be more "fit," but don't be fooled: that is too small. Clemson won't win at the point of attack against good edge run stoppers being that light in the seat. Auburn runs almost the same offense, with the same pace, and its tackles are much, much bigger. This is just something to keep in mind as Clemson is going to need the run game more than ever with the losses of Boyd, Watkins and Bryant.
Original: Last year, FSU didn't just beat Clemson. It kicked down the Tigers' front door and proceeded to light the place on fire.
There is no doubt that FSU dominated, building a 41-7 lead with 20 minutes left to go. But it's also unrealistic to expect a repeat performance in the same fashion, because of turnover luck. 2014 is a new year, with new teams. FSU will, and should be favored again by double digits, but being up five scores 40 minutes into the game is probably not going to happen again, though it is certainly possible if it so happens that the game features FSU at its best and Clemson at its worst.
One thing that won't change, however, is something many fans probably won't realize -- particularly if they stopped watching Clemson after the FSU game: Clemson's defense (13th) was better than its offense (19th). This year, it should be even more slanted to the defense.
In keeping with the trend of focusing on the most dangerous part of a team, I'll let you click to read about replacing Tajh Boyd, Sammy Watkins, Martavis Bryant and Clemson, and you can read about the defense here from Bill Connelly:

If this isn't the best defensive line in the country ...
... it's in the top three or four. Clemson's was one of only three defenses to rank in the top 10 in both Adj. Line Yards and Adj. Sack Rate (the others: Virginia Tech and Tulane), and the entire two-deep returns in 2014. Senior end Vic Beasley is one of the best pure pass rushers in college football, and while he takes some risks and falls out of position from time to time, the rest of the defense is adept at covering for him. The tackles position is loaded and deep, and in Shaq Lawson, Corey Crawford, and others, Clemson has quite a few ends capable of standing up to run blocking. This is a nearly flawless unit; it's amazing to think of how much this line struggled barely two years ago.

Gambling note: I really think the under in this game makes sense. People still view Clemson as a dominant offensive team, and with the expected drop-off in offense, and the likely improvement from an already good and underrated defense, this is a good combo.
ESPN gives Clemson a seven percent chance of winning the ACC.

For those who haven't followed the Tigers all that closely, the defense is going to catch people by surprise this fall (and might even be the ACC's best). Chad Morris' offense has been ahead of Brent Venables' defense the past couple of seasons, but that could easily flip in 2014. In fact, Morris agreed with that sentiment when I suggested it to him a month ago.
The development by the defensive line this past season is the reason the Tigers went from 69th in yards-per-play against in 2012 (5.7) to 23rd in 2013 (5.0). Clemson led the country with 123 tackles for a loss, averaging a stunning 9.5 tackles for a loss per game.
The majority of that unit is back, including All-America candidates at end (Vic Beasley) and tackle (Grady Jarrett).
Then there are infusions like redshirt freshman corner Mackensie Alexander, RecruitingNation's No. 4 overall prospect in the 2013 class. Alexander was dinged up last season, but Venables said he is ready to make an impact now.




More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




263


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State football opponent preseason previews



Oct 29



Florida State football opponent preseason preview: Louisville



Aug 20

              263 comments
          

Florida State preseason football preview: Clemson



Aug 12

              41 comments
          

Florida State football opponent preseason preview: N.C State


10 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







In This Article
Events


Tigers @ Seminoles 09/20/2014


Teams


Florida State Seminoles


Clemson Tigers




Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































