Florida State recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







×
Connect with Tomahawk Nation










Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Football


Florida State recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap

    By Bud Elliott


@SBNRecruiting


    on Jul 17 2014, 7:14p

    

44











Matthew Emmons-USA TODAY Sports







Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




44


      Comments
    




Thursday featured one of the best days ever at the Jimbo Fisher camp in terms of top prospects. Let's review who made it out for the offensive side of the ball. Please note that even though Dustin Tackett and I tried to make our rounds, there was so much talent out there that we are sure to have missed some good players.
QB
The quarterbacks were the story of Thursday.





Malik Henry, of California, was probably the best player who has worked out so far at the camp. He holds 10+ offers for a reason, and has an excellent arm, both in terms of strength and accuracy. Jimbo Fisher watched a lot of his reps and it is easy to see why many consider him the top QB in the country for 2016 (I think it is too early for such a designation, personally).
Jacob Eason, of Washington, was also impressive, though I did not find his arm quite as strong as I expected given how big the 2016 prospect is. He does have excellent touch, however.

Me and Pop's hangin with Cheif Osceola in #NoleNation pic.twitter.com/rlwip4SNqP
— J_Eason10 (@skinnyqb10) July 17, 2014




Top QB target for the 2015 class, Deondre Francois, of IMG Academy in Bradenton also threw and again showed off one of the biggest arms in the country. Full interview with him here from Dustin Tackett. I like FSU's chances there when he decides in late July. Orlando-area prospects Nyquan Murray and Derwin James, both FSU commits, were in his ear.





FSU commit De'Andre Johnson (Jacksonville First Coast) threw a bit as well.
RB
Top RB target Jacques Patrick, of Orlando, was hanging out with current Florida State players (including Karlos Williams), and I'd be shocked if he doesn't end up in Tallahassee. This confidence comes from speaking with Patrick, other recruits and sources. Decision coming October 28 (his brother's birthday). Full interview coming.
WR
FSU commit Nyquan Murray, of Orlando, showed very good ball skills at receiver.
2016 WR Darnell Salomon, of Hialeah (Fla.), did not work out but did visit with other players and recruits and saw the campus. Full interview coming.
Drake Davis was again impressive. I discussed him yesterday and Dustin Tackett has a full interview coming.
2016 Maysoe Wiley, of Cook County Georgia, was also impressive. He is a solid 6'4 and probably just under 200 pounds.
Florida Gators commitment Tristan Payton had a nice day. I'm a fan of the Jacksonville (Fla.) First Coast product. He fights for the football and is a tough player.
2017 WR D.J. Matthews, also of First Coast, actually committed to Florida State Thursday. He's very impressive and is already 6'0 with other offers like Clemson, LSU, etc. Probably a national recruit.
OL
FSU 2015 commit David Robbins had a nice day. The Maryland prospect worked at guard in the morning, and then held his own playing center later on. He came in at 6'4, 290+ with 11" hands and a 7' wing-span. Impressive. Full interview coming.
2015 OL Abdul Bello, of Montverde, looked very athletic, but he is still pretty raw and did not dominate in 1-on-1s. I still think FSU would take him this instant if he wanted in. 6'5, 310 with that athleticism at tackle doesn't come along often.  Full interview coming.
2016 Chidi Okeke-Valentine, of Hialeah (Fla.) Champagnat Catholic, had an excellent day and is rapidly improving.
2015 Jalen Merrick, of New Smyrna Beach, was excellent. He even took some reps at tackle, though I suspect he's going to be a guard -- and a very good one, at the college level.
2015 Christian Pellage, of Brooksville, had a good day, but needs to show more aggressiveness and dominance in my opinion. It's also interesting to see him as he develops and how much muscle he can put on in the lower half.
2016 Christion Gainer, of Panama City (Fla.) Bay High School, is a name to watch.
2016 guard Terrance Davis, of Dematha Catholic (DC area), earned an offer with his performance.
2016 OL Stewart Reese, of Ft. Pierce, claims an FSU offer. He is too heavy right now at 330+ pounds, but I am encouraged by what he can do at that size. As he matures, he is a player to watch.
2015 OL Matt Burrell again hung out on the sidelines and chatted with players. I would really have liked to see the D.C.-area prospect work out, but perhaps he will Friday for the final session.
Questions? The defensive review will be out Friday




More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




44


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
Florida State football recruiting: Jimbo Fisher football camp updates



Jul 20

              93 comments
          

Huge commitment for FSU



Jul 17

              44 comments
          

Florida State recruiting: Jimbo Fisher Camp Thursday Offense Recap



Jul 17

              14 comments
          

New commit for FSU


19 Updates




Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







In This Article
Teams


Florida Gators




Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































