Florida State Football Recruits & Targets 11/22 - Tomahawk Nation 
Florida State Football Recruits & Targets 11/22 - Tomahawk Nation











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















Tomahawk Nation, a Florida State Seminoles community


Home
Fanposts
Fanshots

Sections


Florida State Football
NFL Noles
Florida State Basketball
Florida State Football Recruiting
Florida State Baseball
Full Archive




Library


Florida State football scholarship roster by year
FSU 2013-14 Basketball Schedule
Tracking Expectations for Jimbo Fisher




Seminoles


Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Seminoles News
Yahoo Seminoles Team Page
Yahoo Seminoles Report
Yahoo Seminoles Transactions



Tickets
Odds
Shop

About


Masthead
Community Guidelines




More







NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







SB Nation
All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search












Fanshots
Fanposts







Florida State Football
Florida State Football Recruiting


Florida State Football Recruits & Targets 11/22

    By SFWNole


@Spencivs


    on Nov 22 2013, 12:52p

    

28











Melina Vastola-USA TODAY Sports






×
Get the latest Florida State Seminoles news with Tomahawk Nation


Follow Tomahawk Nation on Twitter



Like Tomahawk Nation Facebook






Some of the Seminoles' recruits and targets are getting deep into their high school playoff runs. Let's take a look at how they are doing.




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




28


      Comments
    




Let's just straight into it this week, no new updates regarding players being added and dropped.
Commits

LB Kain Daub and DE Blake McClain of Sandalwood (Jacksonville, FL) were defeated by fellow FSU commit DT Adam Torres and his Lake Mary (Orlando, FL) team by a score of 25-6, and that's the season for Sandalwood.
WR Markell Pack of Purvis (MS) lost in a real close game 13-14 against Quitman (MS) and Purvis's playoff run comes to a halt.
LB Jacob Pugh and LS Stephen Gabbard of Godby (Tallahassee, FL) were defeated by West Florida (Pensacola, FL) by a score of 40-41 (ouch). Pugh had a 37 yard TD reception. Defensive stats were not compiled for this matchup. Another group of FSU recruits have their season ended early in their playoff runs.
LB Delvin Purifoy of Pensacola Catholic (FL) continue their playoff march after a 41-38 victory over Rickards (Tallahassee, FL). Pensacola Catholic will now be taking on West Florida (Pensacola,FL) (the team that defeated Godby, PCHS also beat them at the beginning of the month and gave them their only loss) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM.
DT Demarcus Christmas and his very good Manatee (Bradenton, FL) team defeated Vero Beach (FL) in a 34-28 game. Christmas had 1 tackle, a TFL, and a forced fumble in the win. Manatee advances to the next round of the playoffs where they will take on Central (Fort Pierce, FL) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM.
RB Jonathan Vickers of North Florida Christian (Tallahassee, FL) rushed for 98 yards and 3 TDs on 8 carries in a 48-21 victory of Harvest Community (Jacksonville, FL). NFC advances to the next round of the 2A playoffs where they will take on University Christian (Jacksonville, FL) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM.
QB JJ Consentino of Central Catholic (Pittsburgh, PA) advance even further into the playoffs after their 49-10 win against Penn-Trafford (Harrison City, PA). They will now be taking on Woodland Hills (Pittsburgh, PA) on 11/23 at 2 PM. The game will be taking place at Heinz Field.
ATH Malique Jackson of Wayne Country (Jesup, GA) and his squad defeated Monroe (Albany, GA) 49-34 in their first playoff game. They will now advance to take on Veterans (Kathleen, GA) on 11/22 time TBA.
DE Rick Leonard of (Middletown, MD) had 3 tackles, 2 TFLs, and a sack in a 45-6 win over Poolesville (MD). They will now advance to the regional finals to take on South Carroll (Sykesville, MD) on 11/22 at 7 PM.
WR Ryan Sousa of Lake Nona (Orlando, FL) and his squad lost in a shootout to Kathleen (Lakeland, FL) despite Sousa gaining 138 receiving yards and 3 TDs on 11 receptions. They ended their season at 8-3.
WR CJ Whorton of South Dade (Homestead, FL) and his squad advanced in the first round of the playoffs after defeating Southwest (Miami, FL) by a score of 42-7. They will now be taking on Killian (Miami, FL) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM.
DT Adam Torres of Lake Mary (Orlando, FL) and his team defeated Sandalwood (Jacksonville, FL) as stated earlier in the article. Lake Mary doesn't post complete defensive statistics, but Adam Torres did force a safety in the game and was named the overall player of the game. Lake Mary will now be hosting 8A powerhouse First Coast (Jacksonville, FL) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM.
C Alec Eberle of Atlee (Mechanicsville, VA) and his team won their first playoff game against Meadowbrook (Richmond, VA). They will now be hosting Freeman (Richmond, VA) on 11/22 at 7 PM.
TE Ryan Izzo of Pope John XXIII (Sparta, NJ) had 2 receptions and a TD on 32 yards in a 53-0 playoff victory over Bishop Ahr (Edison, NJ). They will now be hosting Delbarton (Morristown, NJ) on 11/23 at 1 PM.
OL/DL Arthur Williams of E.E. Smith (Fayetteville, NC) and his team lost in their playoff matchup against Conley (Greenville, NC) by a score of 14-35. They ended their season at 6-6.
QB Treon Harris and DT Fredrick Jones of Booker T. Washington (Miami, FL) and the rest of their team defeated Glades Central (Belle Glade, FL) in the first round of the FHSAA 4A playoffs. They will now advance to take on University (Fort Lauderdale, FL) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM.

Targets


CB Adoree' Jackson of Serra (Gardena, CA) had a rushing TD, 58 receiving yards (on 2 catches), 3 tackles, a TFL, and a pass defended in a 48-16 win over Pacifica (Oxnard, CA). They will now be traveling to take on Buena (Ventura, CA) on 11/22 for their next playoff game.
TE Anthony Jones of Edna Karr (New Orleans, LA) and his team defeated Salmen (Slidell, LA) 53-7 in their first playoff match up. They also defeated Crowley (LA) by a score of 55-6 in their second playoff match up. The next game is TBA.
RB Darrell Scott of Havelock (NC) cruised to a 48-0 victory in their first playoff victory against Topsail (Hampstead, NC). They will now be taking on Anson (Wadesboro, NC) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM.
CB Marlon Humphrey of Hoover (AL) and his team attained their second playoff victory against Shades Valley (Birmingham, AL) by a score of 33-14. They will now be taking on Florence (AL) on 11/22 at TBA.
Norcross (GA) duo ATH Myles Autry and DE Lorenzo Carter and their squad defeated Etowah ( ) by a score of 28-0. Carter had 12 total tackles including 6 TFLs, and a pass defended. Norcross will advance to the next round of the playoffs as they take on Brookwood (Snellville, GA) on 11/22 at TBA.
OT Roderick Johnson of Hazelwood Central (Florissant, MO) and his team won their quarterfinal matchup 26-24 against Christian Brothers (St. Louis, MO). They will now advance to the state semifinals against Rock Bridge (Columbia, MO) on 11/22 at 7 PM.
WR Josh Malone of Station Camp (Gallatin, TN) and his team lost in the second round of the playoffs in a heartbreaker against Hendersonville (TN) by a score of 28-29. Station Camp ended the season at 9-3. A lot of recruitniks are projecting him to end up at Tennessee, but he did recently send in early enrollment papers to 4 schools, and FSU was included.
DT Thomas Holley of Lincoln (Brooklyn, NY) had another monster game racking up 6 tackles, 4 TFLs, and a sack in a 39-8 win over New Utrecht (Brooklyn, NY). They will advance to the next round of the playoffs as they host Flushing (NY) on 11/23 at 12 PM.
WR Travis Rudolph of Cardinal Newman (West Palm Beach, FL) had a punt return go back for a TD and also had a pick 6 in a playoff win over Chaminade-Madonna (Hollywood, FL) by a score of 40-13. They will now be taking on Westminster Christian (Miami, FL) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM for the regional championship.
WR Malachi Dupre of Curtis (River Ridge, LA) and his team will begin their title bid as they host St. Charles Catholic (LaPlace, LA) on 11/22 at 7 PM.
DE Jalyn Holmes of Lake Taylor (Norfolk, VA) and his team got their first playoff victory in a 35-7 win over Nansemond River (Suffolk, VA). They will now be hosting Hanover (Mechanicsville, VA) on 11/22 at 7:30 PM in the next round of the playoffs.
RB Dalvin Cook of Miami Central (Miami, FL) got a playoff win against Boynton Beach (FL) in a high scoring 55-37 affair. They will now advance to take on Dillard (Fort Lauderdale, FL) on 11/22 at 7 PM.
OT David Sharpe of Providence (Jacksonville, FL) and his team lost in the first round of the 3A playoffs to Trinity Catholic (Ocala, FL) by a score of 13-30. Sharpe was set to make his announcement last Thursday but has now postponed the decision. Many are thinking he will going to UF now.

That's it for this week. These games are getting big and the competition is getting better for these players. Sometimes players who have not been doing too well during the regular season really shine in these games. Devonta Freeman is an excellent example as he had a ridiculous playoff run statistically and led his team to a state title.

As always if you have the chance to see any of these games, please let us know what you see in the comments section!










More from Tomahawk Nation

Florida State football, recruiting news 12/22
Jameis Winston lawyer tweets 'evidence has not shown' a conduct violation
Florida State University release on Jameis Winston hearing
Comparing Florida State and Oregon's Strength of Schedule
Florida State Seminoles: FSU NFL Hangout Week 16
Florida State football practice report: 12/19
Bryan Stork's Football Journey
















Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




28


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















Latest News


Florida State football recruiting podcast
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
FSU makes quick coaching hire
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
5-star cornerback recruit Tarvarus McFadden 100% to Florida State
Tommy Awards 2014: Nominations
FSU lands commit No. 22
Braxton Miller enrolled at Ohio State for Spring semester







In This Article
Teams


Florida State Seminoles


Players


Devonta Freeman (RB-Florida St.)




Team Shop






 
						Florida State Seminoles Nike Custom Game Football Jersey - Garnet 
$109.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike No. 5 Florida State Seminoles Garnet Replica Football Jersey 
$89.95
Buy Now navigateright







 
						Nike Florida State Seminoles Black Warp Logo Therma-FIT Hoodie 
$69.95
Buy Now navigateright










































Trending Discussions


2015 Official Recruiting Thread
Florida State recruiting: 2 weeks to Signing Day
FSU makes quick coaching hire
FSU basketball: Clemson preview
FSU basketball: NC State preview
NCAA restores Joe Paterno's wins, now ahead of Bobby Bowden
Florida State hire of Brad Lawing impacts top-5 of 5-star defensive end recruit
Coach expected to leave FSU for NFL
Jameis, the Draft & Tampa Bay
Byron Cowart has top two of Auburn, Florida. Unsure of FSU visit on 30th, per ESPN ($)
































Tomahawk Nation

FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join Tomahawk Nation
You must be a member of Tomahawk Nation to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at Tomahawk Nation. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data









































