5-star running back recruit Dalvin Cook flips from Florida to Florida State - SBNation.com 
5-star running back recruit Dalvin Cook flips from Florida to Florida State - SBNation.com











SB Nation


Login


Sign Up






















NFL


NBA


MLB


NHL


CFB


Recruiting


CBB


UFC


Soccer


NASCAR


Fantasy


Golf


Tickets


Shop


Tennis


Longform


Cycling


Boxing


Horse Racing


Podcasts


Local


Running


Water Polo


Wrestling


Outsports


Video


Odds


More







All 309 blogs





















🔎Search


Search



















×
Don't Miss The Next Amazing Sports Moment










College Football Recruiting
Florida State Football Recruiting


5-star running back recruit Dalvin Cook flips from Florida to Florida State

    By Chris Fuhrmeister


@ccfuhr


    on Dec 31 2013, 7:27p

    

443











USA TODAY Sports



The Seminoles' 2014 recruiting class received a big boost at the expense of their biggest rival.




Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




443


      Comments
    




Class of 2014 five-star running back Dalvin Cook flipped his commitment from Florida to Florida State Tuesday afternoon, announcing his college choice on ESPNU. Cook had been committed to the Gators since April 6, and there had been some reports he was also considering Miami.







Tomahawk Nation Alligator Army


A January graduate of Miami (Fla.) Central High School, Cook will be able to enroll at Florida State next week, and the Seminoles will have him for spring practice in a few months. He is FSU's highest-rated prospect for this recruiting cycle, the school's 27th commitment overall and 13th with a rating of four stars or better. Standing 5'11, weighing in at 205 pounds and running a reported 4.46-second 40-yard dash, some have compared him to former Clemson standout and current Buffalo Bill C.J. Spiller. Cook is the 12th-best player in the nation, according to the 247 Sports composite rankings, the second-best running back and the top prospect from the state of Florida.

Dalvin Cook says when he was young he thought with his heart, but as a senior he thought about business. FSU was a business decision.
— TomahawkNation.com (@TomahawkNation) January 1, 2014




Dalvin Cook says he will go at 5-star WR Ermon Lane @_MoneyLane (UF commit) strong and that they should play together.
— TomahawkNation.com (@TomahawkNation) January 1, 2014









Dalvin Cook cites FSU's offensive balance, and says FSU runs the scheme that fits him.
— TomahawkNation.com (@TomahawkNation) January 1, 2014






BCS Eulogy
  College football's money-printing postseason will soon have a new name and a new format. But let's pretend the last official week of the Bowl Championship Series is also the birth of something new.


In addition to FSU, Florida and Miami, he has scholarship offers from nine other schools around the country: Arkansas, Texas, Alabama, Clemson, Illinois, Louisville, Texas A&M and USC. Cook had planned to make an official visit to Gainesville in December, but he canceled. His last trip to Florida's campus was in July, and he made an official to Florida State on Oct. 26, taking in the Seminoles' 49-17 win over N.C. State. His final official visit was to Miami on Dec. 6.
Apparently anticipating a possible decommitment from Cook, Florida has secured a visit on Jan. 24 from four-star running back Jeff Jones, currently a Minnesota commit.
Cook was originally set to make his announcement at halftime of the Under Armour All-America Game on Thursday, but televised commitments during that game are reserved for previously uncommitted players.
More from SB Nation college football:
Follow @SBNationCFBFollow @SBNRecruiting
• Bowl season TV schedule, with scores and recaps along the way
• Bill O’Brien could leave Penn State for the NFL
• Modern Hate: Four huge, behind-the-scenes stories on college football rivalries
• College football news | Tons of five-star recruiting updates
• Long CFB reads | The death of a college football player










Tweet
Share on Twitter



Share
Share on Facebook



Pin
Pinterest




443


      Comments
    






Share
Share on Facebook















In This StoryStream
2014 Under Armour All-America Game coverage: Commitments, news and more



Jan 2

              5 comments
          

2014 Under Armour All-America Game: LSU hits and misses, Bama likely secures No. 1 class



Dec 31

              443 comments
          

5-star running back recruit Dalvin Cook flips from Florida to Florida State



Dec 31

              81 comments
          

Dalvin Cook's grandmother says 5-star Florida commit will announce on ESPN


16 Updates




Latest News


Why did we hate Bud Selig so much?
Draymond Green and the rise of 'situational stars'
Senior Bowl NFL Draft stock report
How Harbaugh's Michigan will work
How to love Bill Belichick
Papelbon could finally be traded
The 7 schools with big recruiting weekends
Federer falls to Andreas Seppi in third round
Curry leads NBA All-Star starters
Seahawks WR fined $11K for perceived gesture










































Trending Discussions


Tom Brady, Patriots have too many ways to beat you
NFL finds Pats used deflated footballs, per report
Don't go crazy over DeflateGate
Everything you need to know about DeflateGate
How the Seahawks saved their season in 6 minutes
Bama's class will be No. 1 again. Who's No. 2?
Can the Seahawks stop Aaron Rodgers?
NFL investigating Patriots for deflating footballs
Russell Wilson moved to tears in emotional victory
Luke Willson, the workin' man's Gronk
































SBNation.com

Masthead
Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Subscribe
Tickets








Browse Blogs






About SBN
Company Blog
Have a News Tip?
Contact Us
Blog Openings






SBNU v1.5.0, December 18, 2013
Guiding Principles
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved

  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.






Advertise With Us
Jobs @ Vox Media


Back to Top ↑









X






Log In
Sign Up



T
F


G




Y
O













forgot?



forgot?





Remember me?







Log In
Sign Up



T
F

G




Y
O






























Forgot password?
We'll email you a reset link.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot username?
We'll email it to you.
If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.








Forgot password?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Forgot username?


If you signed up using a 3rd party account like Facebook or Twitter, please login with it instead.
Try another email?


Almost done, 




          By becoming a registered user, you are also agreeing to our
          Terms and confirming that
          you have read our Privacy Policy.
        







Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at SBNation.com. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Join SBNation.com
You must be a member of SBNation.com to participate.

          We have our own Community Guidelines
          at SBNation.com. You should read them.
        



I Agree to the Community Guidelines






Authenticating



Great!
Choose an available username to complete sign up.













In order to provide our users with a better overall experience, we ask for more information from Facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience. We do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with Facebook.



Yes, share my data



Please don't share my data


































