FSU Shooting: The Anticipation of Mass Fraud « Memory Hole


FSU Shooting: The Anticipation of Mass Fraud « Memory Hole




Memory Hole
Reflections on Media and Politics | © Memory Hole Blog / James F. Tracy 2012-2015


Main menu

Skip to content


HomeAbout / DisclaimerCivility CodeContactFair Use Statement


Search for:



 


 





November 26, 2014 

			
			FSU Shooting: The Anticipation of Mass Fraud
			
							
30 


Guest Posts • Tags: criminology, police state, public opinion, state crime 


By Dr. Jason Kissner
While it is obviously vital to detect and deconstruct the fictitious narratives that often accompany mass events charged with political significance, here we will discuss another potential line of thought that should perhaps be pursued: the anticipation of mass fraud.

[Image Credit: Businessweek.com]
Clearly, such a project confronts several major challenges. Foremost among them, perhaps, is accommodating the necessity to place strictures upon conjecture that are sufficient to distinguish reasoned supposition from wild speculation.
In recognition of this chief concern, the following addresses the FSU active shooting and applies a tentative, simple framework that is intended to guide the anticipation of mass fraud. The output of the analysis is, it is believed, a reasonable conjecture as to the occurrence of another conceivably linked mass event that will contain elements of fraud.
The elements of the simple framework, which can interact depending on the particular analysis one is performing, are:
1. A careful analysis of empirical irregularities associated with previous mass events reasonably believed to have been, at least in certain respects, fraudulent
2. Close inspection of timing issues pertaining to the release of information/disinformation regarding previous mass events that carry mass political significance
Discussion of the two elements is in order, but first it should be noted that the framework is inherently domain-constrained. That is, it is intended to apply only to the anticipation of mass events the occurrence of which can be reasonably anticipated because they might be viewed, on an empirical basis as subtended by previous events (this will become more clear as we proceed).
In other words, the set of potential mass frauds that cannot be conjectured, in specific ways, to build on the momentum of previous mass frauds are excluded from the coverage of the framework.
The elements can be fleshed out with application to the FSU active shooting. With respect to the first element and considering, at this point, the FSU active shooting as a “previous” mass event, we can observe that active shootings in which active shooters have returned to schools they once attended (e.g., several years prior) are, empirically, very rare.
Furthermore, Myron May (the alleged FSU active shooter) is said to have sent 10 packages before the shooting. I am not sure, but May might well have been the first active shooter to have done something like this. We might add that May is said, in the just-now linked CNN article, to have believed that the recipients were to receive the packages on Friday, the day after the shooting. Why May, if he were planning on a Thursday shooting, wouldn’t have sent the “Priority Mail” packages earlier is a reasonable question to ask.
Moreover, are we to believe that May’s selection of Priority Mail rather than, say, Express mail is to be attributed to financial concerns, mental illness, or some combination thereof? Given the circumstances, that seems rather unlikely. For example, May, a former prosecutor, had to have been aware that any packages he sent that were still in the system would be intercepted subsequent to the shooting, yet he seems to have believed it very important that the packages be received. Of course, it is possible that the packages are shams.
Another empirical oddity is that May seems to have been more itinerant than typical active shooters are, having taken up residences in, for example (there may be others) Texas and New Mexico before his return to Tallahassee.
And, bearing on the possibility that May might have been a TI, active shooters don’t typically hear voices and complain of energy weapons being directed against them either, although there are of course other examples of this having happened, as we saw with Aaron Alexis (another alliterative name, somewhat curiously—and one wonders whether, for some reason, the frequency of alliterative names among TIs is statistically greater than in the general population).
With reference to this last set of empirical irregularities, the expectation has to be that the general public will attribute May’s doings to a mental illness such as schizophrenia. What we get, therefore, are empirical questions in connection with the factor analytic structure of, say, schizophrenia as opposed to TI symptom clusters. For example, how often do schizophrenics exhibit the degree of itineracy that May apparently did?
If May was a TI, the empirical fact that active shooters very rarely execute active shootings at schools they once attended could be especially significant. A priori, May could have acted at any of the other locations he resided, but he acted at FSU—and precipitously, quite soon after his arrival in Tallahassee.
Alone, the fact that he had ties to Tallahassee is not necessarily sufficient to account for the fact that the active shooting event took place at FSU since, as was stated above, active shooters at schools have only very rarely executed shootings at schools they’ve once attended. And, more generally, active shooters, whether they shoot in schools or not, aren’t typically “itinerant returners.”
In fact, if May was a TI, it is reasonable to suppose that he was directed to FSU—which might have been made easier to do by virtue of the fact that he had ties to the location. Thus, empirical considerations might be taken to suggest that the FSU event location was statistically very unusual, but perhaps not random.
This combination of empirically unusual but perhaps not random should, I believe, be a core background idea when attempting to anticipate future mass frauds. So why FSU?
This brings us to the second component, which has to do with the timing of information/disinformation relating to previous mass events charged with political significance.
Under this component, we might want to recognize that we don’t know what might be in the ten packages May sent, if he sent them at all. But that we are to believe he did send them might be all that matters. The information, if such it is, in those ten packages might well provide for a steady stream of injections that help keep the FSU shooting front and center until it is time to move to the next stage.
Perhaps more importantly, though, we should consider that a day after the FSU event, the Connecticut Office of the Child Advocate released a 114 page report relating to Adam Lanza and hammering on gun control and mental illness. And, referencing the report, CNN is banging on about “Red Flags Missed at Newtown.” Many other “news” outlets have behaved similarly—seizing on, for some reason, the FSU event in particular, as an opportunity to re-inject the Sandy Hook fraud into mass consciousness.
It should go without saying that the 114 page report could have been released a week ago, or two weeks ago, etc. Instead, it was released the day after the FSU event. Partly, this functions to inculcate the notion that TI cases are simply mental illness cases, so that we are told implicitly to identify persons such as Mayes with the Adam Lanza construct.
But it may also be that the timing of the release has even more ominous implications. Largely, the Sandy Hook operation was a failure on the issue of gun control, although it has attained considerable success along the mental health monitoring front.
And yet, even from the standpoint of gun control, Sandy Hook still retains appreciable potential in the sense that it still reverberates in the public psyche, and the reverberations might well be harnessed to other active shooting events so as to maximize cumulative impact.
On this score, the evidence is clear that Sandy Hook has been tethered to FSU. This is the upshot of the analysis under component 2. The upshot of the component 1 analysis, you may recall, was that FSU may well have been a non-random target destination.
When these two conclusions are synthesized, we arrive at the assessment that the Sandy Hook and FSU events might be parlayed so as to result in something even more impactful than Sandy Hook.
Given Sandy Hook’s domination of the media cycle, such an event would have to sort into the register of the “very big” indeed. It may prove worthwhile to think here of the fact that while Sandy Hook was momentous, it did not involve victimization relating to a national institution steeped in tradition—an institution such as the NCAA Championship game.
FSU is very well situated to participate in the ridiculous four team playoff scheme that has been constructed (and it is worth noting that Condi Rice sits on the Playoff Selection Committee). Even with a loss, it is quite conceivable that FSU would be selected anyway; as of right now FSU is undefeated.
Another active shooting at a university whose football team is participating in the four team playoff would resonate profoundly if carefully, and malevolently, timed. ESPN fanatics would be reached for days on end, as well as causal viewers of the extravaganza.
Of course, the playoff games will take place during winter break, but certain persons will be on campus anyway—and there are always the early days of December. And, there is always the mind-bogglingly horrific possibility that the contact could be in January, and very directly tied to the games.
Such an event might well prompt even a “Republican” Congress to pass gun control legislation.
In sum, it is perhaps inherent in the nature of anticipation of such events as these that the probability of something like the above transpiring should be accounted as rather low, but the prospect does arguably have some empirical support in active shooting data as well as other information—and it meshes very well with Obama’s “lame-duck” determination to secure his fraudulent legacy.

Dr. Jason Kissner is associate professor of criminology at California State University, Fresno. He holds degrees from Florida State University, The University of Florida, and Cornell University School of Law. Kissner’s research interests include active shootings and self-control. You can reach him at crimprof2010[ at]hotmail.com.


About these ads




ShareFacebookTwitterGooglePrintEmailMoreRedditPinterestTumblrStumbleUponPocketLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 




Post navigation
 Myron May’s Suicide Letter
The Enduring Spirit of Howard Beale 



			30 comments		





 Pendantic Skirt says: 


					December 1, 2014 at 7:07 pm					



Speaking of mass fraud, is it not curious that there have been so many cyber attacks, and even sakes alive Hollywood has been attacked with yet to be released new movies available for free?  
Was it those dirty bugger Chinese or maybe the N Koreans?  We will never know.  But for sure the internet, our last outlet for the truth, is tottering on the threat of massive failure.
Daily receive virus warnings when launching articles, not from my normal provider, but from a phantom looking out for my own good, when I try again it works.  Admittedly, I visit conservative, anti-big government sites.
Trying to wrap my head on how we just borrowed another trillion dollars to pay off an urgent debt, all the while taking in record income.
http://cnsnews.com/mrctv-blog/terence-p-jeffrey/ponzi-treasury-issues-1t-new-debt-8-weeks-pay-old-debt


Reply 






 FCP says: 


					November 30, 2014 at 2:52 am					



If you are even a little bit curious about what this phenomenon is about, you should also visit the only website with a complete archive of all published news reports on this topic (counterintelligence stalking): Fight Gang Stalking.


Reply 



Pingback: FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter | Here Comes The Sun





 Todd Giffen says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 8:37 pm					



The mass deception is strong in this country, it is continuous..
I have set up an important website for the media and others to use to explain this, to get everyone help.
http://www.myronmaysflashdrive.com/


Reply 






 Lou Saboter says: 


					November 28, 2014 at 5:34 am					



Vengeance! Just kidding. But I did troll the CIA twitter page a bit.


Reply 








 arschr says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 6:14 pm					



This deliberate alteration of photos by media to dictate a desired  perception is becoming a pattern.  Here’s a photo of Myron May outside with a group of friends.  Myron is at the far right, sitting in a chair.  Note  the guy in center of the photo (with the wide, expressive eyes).
http://www.tampabay.com/news/education/college/fsu-shooters-friends-tried-to-get-help-for-him-months-before-the-shooting/2207514
Now take a look at this video put forth by ABC, which begins by showing  that same fellow’s face cropped from the above photo, with the caption “Myron May is seen in this undated photo”.
http://abcnews.go.com/US/florida-state-university-gunman-myron-packages-friends/story?id=27075157
The photos of lone gunmen Jared Loughner (balded, thug-like, menacing), James Holmes (orange-haired, doped up, spacey), and Adam Lanza (bug-eyed, “deer-in-the-headlights” expression, freaky) all create an impression. But they were at least photos said to depict the person in question.  ABC’s selecting, cropping, and presenting a photographic image of someone other than Myron May  to give the impression it’s Myron May,  seems strange and misleading.
It’s like they deliberately *try* to confuse readers.


Reply 






 Larry says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 3:37 pm					






Reply 






 Anne B. says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 5:00 pm					



http://projectavalon.net/forum4/showthread.php?54608-CT-School-Shooting-The-Film-We-Need-to-Talk-About-Kevin


Reply 






 lophatt says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 6:22 pm					



Perfect timing.  First we have the SHES psych initiative.  Then this little reinforcer.  Early detection of ODD behavior is an imperative.


Reply 






 Recynd77 says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 10:42 pm					



I read this book in 2004 (or thereabout) and subsequently saw the film.  I thought both were great, but other than the obvious connection, I didn’t connect Sandy Hook with the story.  But now that you mention it, the similarities are kind of eerie.  The single mother aspect, the setting, and even the physical similarities between the actor who played Kevin and Adam Lanza.  
The movie is available to rent on Amazon Instant Video, if anyone’s interested.















 Don says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 2:45 pm					



I feel after 2 years following this blog i have had my first unique revelation/ experience, and information I can contribute to this discussion immediately.  
I follow sports bettors and spent the early hours of this Thanksgiving holiday picking the outcomes of today’s football games.  I also read this post by RJ Bell on pregame.com, a very prominent (and often interviewed by mainstream media) sports bettor on a very popular sports betting forum on Nov 25, 2014… 
http://pregame.com/pregame-forums/f/12/t/1101731.aspx
“Vegas Rankings
(Top 10 CFB teams according to Vegas)
1) Alabama
2) Mississippi State
3) Oregon
4) TCU
5) Baylor
6) FLORIDA ST.
7) Ohio St
8) Georgia
9) Michigan St
10) UCLA
Committee Rankings
1) Alabama
2) Oregon
3) FLORIDA ST.
4) Mississippi State
5) TCU
6) Ohio St
7) Baylor
8) UCLA
9) Georgia
10) Michigan St”
He goes on to explain in the forum post why Vegas insiders do not agree with the committee rankings on Florida St. and the fact they are about to qualify for the BRAND NEW (media coverage) playoff system (top 4 teams) that FSU does not belong in.  (Vegas always wins, and is always right)
I find this very coincidental i read Kissner’s comments about Condi Rice on the selection committee, the connections of FSU and Sandyhook, media sensationalism/ exploitation etc. immediately after i was on pregame this morning.   
Also interesting, Florida / FSU campus police seem to be able to hamper investigations since one of the biggest college sports story this year is FSU QB Jamis Winstons legal troubles.
http://www.foxsports.com/college-football/story/jameis-winston-florida-state-tallahassee-police-hindered-investigation-documents-101014
Go Seminoles Go
@donkrawn


Reply 






 Lou Saboter says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 8:49 am					



Indeed, I suspect that all the Florida schools and including the Universities are housing spooks and corporation crisis managers helping to set up the next event. And that Jewett Middle School drill shows that they could be waiting for the right set of circumstances to make the next event happen.


Reply 






 Bev says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 5:09 pm					






Reply 






 lophatt says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 10:38 pm					



OK, let’s take a look at that.  It’s supposed to be somewhere near midnight at the library.  The newsbimbo says there were 300 to 400 people in the library.  
Now, at that hour, the barrel hasn’t cooled off yet and we have footage of the scene.  How did that happen?  Shortly thereafter we have interviews, as the guy in this video mentions.  
By the next day we see this bizarre narrative.  We have interviews with a student who claims that his backpack saved his life.  All very dramatic.  
In a “real” crime, it takes time to figure out what happened.  Usually they don’t want to release information because it could jeopardize a possible case should one develop.  What you get is the sketchiest of information.  
I think it is important to think of the guy in the video’s phrase “a total hoax”.  Does it have to be “total” to be a hoax?  If someone dies and the completely spin the story, is that “real”?  In this case, I don’t know.  I do know that there seems to be an awful lot of fully-formed information on the event in a very short period of time.  I call that “signature evidence”.


Reply 






 Bev says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 2:04 pm					



Thank you for analysis Lo. Did you notice the second commentator (talking head), it seems she would be highly trained public relations agent.
Interestingly enough to describe the incident she uses what I call the dialect of the ever-developing ‘death culture.’ Notice the inflection of her voice–pitch, tone, loudness–she is using language as a weapon of power that influences perception. Her message is ‘loaded’ to influence emotional impact–so there is propaganda. The words she uses are possible for a viewer to create abstractions of the incident which obscure reality, so we have rhetoric.
John Ralston Saul stated in the book ‘The Unconscious Civilization’ that rhetoric, propaganda and dialect are ideological tools and when used together, when delivering information, the aim is the normalization of the untrue. (Pg. 63)
Always something to think about.
Also did you freeze the frame where the video presenter, upon reaching the FB page, clicks on a few names?? I did, mainly because what is obscure fascinates me. Connections are important especially connections that appear on the surface not to be connections.  
Thank you for sharing your term ‘signature evidence,’ I’ll be sure and put it into my evidentiary thinking tool box. BTW, Happy Thanksgiving and the best of the day to you.


Reply 






 lophatt says: 


					November 28, 2014 at 5:01 pm					



Happy Thanksgiving to you and yours as well.  Yes, regarding the “newsbimbo”, you can always spot someone trained in “communication” or “marketing”.  The articulation of their words, as well as the practiced delivery is hard to miss. 
“Normalization” is an excellent way to put it.  I suppose that is another way of taking the unbelievable and acting as if it were commonplace.  
I didn’t freeze the frame but I’ll give it a try.


Reply 










 Marilyn Jay A. says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 4:09 pm					



Where can one begin to absorb, ingest and decipher these events which escape normal deconstruction only when they are stripped naked of the puffery, huffing and air-expanding delivery inherent in the 24/7 news cycle we euphamistically call ‘news.’
Simply turn the lazer eye of the neutral but seasoned investigatorloose: behold clarity rises up to bite the hand that force-feeds the public pap.  Oh my, what a delicious spectical to see the mighty hoisted on their own petard.
Kudos to two intrepid doctors whose specialty is curing the habitual liar of systemic pathology. Referring to Ph.ds Kessner and Tracy, of course.


Reply 



Pingback: FSU Shooting: The Anticipation of Mass Fraud - UNCLE - UNCLE





 Marzi says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 7:42 am					



Well written and insightful.  Even Condi Rice on the selection team?  Amazing.  Why can’t corrupt bureaurcrats just retire completely?  Meanwhile, the only columnist with anything of interest about Ferguson is Piers Morgan –
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2849133/PIERS-MORGAN-farce-Ferguson-Darren-Wilson-6ft-4in-210lb-five-year-old-history.html


Reply 






 Marilyn Jay A. says: 


					November 27, 2014 at 2:05 pm					



Interesting, Marzi a radical departure by Piers Morgan from .Paul joseph Watson when he takes an opposite stand regard the Michael Brown/Officer Wilson tragedy.  What is Watson drinkimg these days?  He said depending on the forensic evidence, the Grand JUry made the right decision. The prosecutor can (and did) skew the evidence to his personal bias with no transparency as well as lack of meaningful and full investigation in a legitimate trial setting–all ignored by Watson.
I have no love for Piers Morgan but give credit where due–if reluctantly. What the hey!  Is Alex Jones doning the emporer’s cap to dictate truth? Is Watson falling prey to jones’edicts?  hmmmm/  This bears
watching.  
Another Infowars anchor, David KNight, gave an excellent account of the Ferguson Grand Jury farce which totally trumped Watson’s spiel. A Grand Jury will indict a ham sandwhich under the right(or wrong) cicdumstances–paraphrasing one legal system observer.
The whole world is watching, as Infowar’s founder,
Alex jONES, likes to brag.  Get it togethe, team–juST MY OPINION.


Reply 






 Marilyn Jay A. says: 


					November 28, 2014 at 10:54 am					



Just can’t seem to let this go when so much is at stake across the country.  So I Googled David Knight’s video essay on the Ferguson Grand Jury’s process that breaks down the falacies of grand jury legal machinations in general but Ferguson in particular. Needed to revisit
his clear-headed thinking on the matter.
http://www.infowars.com/ferguson-decision-plunges-city-into-flames/
Searing condemnation by a gallant David Knight expose.
Bless you David for taking a crucial step forward in this ongoing war against American values.  If indeed we want to secure our values for the future.


Reply 








 lophatt says: 


					November 28, 2014 at 5:28 pm					



Marzi, I think the point of this is that it is ANOTHER manufactured event.  I have no love for cops, or thugs.  It seems obvious, at least to me, that none of this has anything to do with an unjust legal system or discrimination. 
This has to do with “divide and conquer”.  They are obviously “forming teams” and fanning the flames to see if they can get an excuse going that will allow marshal law.  Don’t forget what Kissinger said about how everyone will one day thank them for “restoring order” in their new world government.  First, there has to be chaos. 
With all the other obvious abuses by cops these days, why do you suppose they chose this one?  This one has enough ambiguity in it to be useful.  
So now they are busy promoting this thing like the Super Bowl.  If you’re black you have to show support for your team.  If you’re white, you have to howl with indignation.  
Meanwhile, while we’re gnashing our teeth, they are pushing their owner’s agenda at an every increasing pace.  They are negotiating secret trade agreements, trying to start WWIII, importing Ebola and destroying the culture.  All the while we endlessly debate precisely what they want us to.  
We all know that “justice” is really “just us”.  I’m sure if they all simply went home they’d import “protesters”.  I’m pretty sure that they have.  This movie should have the low ratings it deserves.


Reply 








 dachsielady says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 7:33 am					



T I  ?
rapper from Atlanta?


Reply 






 choose2know says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 11:55 am					



Targeted Individual…see previous article regarding Myron May’s suicide note.


Reply 






 dachsielady says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 12:14 pm					



Thanks for answer.  I had guessed targeted individual but did not find any verification for the abbreviation in my internet search.
I have not followed this FSU case.  I do not read newspapers anymore and do have not watched TV in my home for over three years so all my news comes via the regular sites I visit on the web.
Little or nothing has been written about the FSU case on the sites I routinely visit.  I do not even know the basics of the official narrative.  I do not even know if Myron May is alive or if he committed suicide.  I understand three people were shot and injured but their identities and condition have been kept secret.
In these articles I think it would be helpful to always include at the beginning a very brief, one or two sentence, recap of the official narrative for the event.  I notice Dr. Fetzer generally does that on fairly recent events.


Reply 








 John says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 7:17 pm					



dachsielady,
For a  good primer regarding Targeted Individuals listen to this interview James did with Derrick Robinson on Oct.15.



Reply 






 dachsielady says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 8:26 pm					



Thank you John for that show link.  What an excellent interview.
I communicated with two women about two or three years ago who were on an RBN radio show as guests telling of their experiences as TIs though that abbreviation and term apparently is more in use now than it was then.
I have no doubt that it is a very real phenomenon.
I thought the brief comment by Dr. Drucker, the pyschiatrist that it was all just people with “delusional disorders” was truly unhelpful and probably deliberate disinformation on his part.
It seems to me that the victims of the voice to skull voices in their head are clearly different in their behavior than someone with paranoid schizophrenia.  I thought Dr. Drucker’s dismissive pronouncement was extremely unprofessional.  If Derrick Robinson has the “voices in his head” kind of attacks, he is way too articulate and mentally “together” than someone who is truly paranoid schizophrenic.
My heart goes out to these victims and I am glad there is that organization for these people to compare notes and offer support to each other.  I personally am moved to pray for these people that they will find strong help for themselves.
The fact that the victims are being guided to harming themselves or even killing themselves or others tells me that this whole thing is of the demonic realm.
I always get a bit depressed just listening to interviews on this subject or even just reading about it.


Reply 






 Todd says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 8:55 pm					



Looks like Europe is catching on to this problem as well. Conference took place on 20 November in Brussels.
Over the last century, numerous illegal experiments have been performed on human test subjects without their consent and continue to this day in the European Union and beyond. Not only whistle blowers, activists and political opponents are targeted, but thousands of innocent civilians are also subjected to non-consensual testing and mind control experimentation with remote technology weapons and covert community harassment. Faced with an ever increasing number of citizens voicing complaints of being remotely tortured and/or experimented on, governments around the world have failed to acknowledge these human rights violations by ignoring them and often treating them as mentally ill.
To address this issue of global concern and stimulate the debate at the European level, the European Coalition against Covert Harassment (EUCACH) and the STOPEG Foundation (Stop Electronic Weapons Stop Gang Stalking), are now organizing the world’s first ever Covert Harassment Conference.
Aspiring to provide a respectful environment for the voices of the victims referred to as Targeted Individuals, we hope that this unique event will bring together all actors concerned: medical, juridical, political and technology experts, as well as, press and media representatives, and the victims, with the shared objectives: (1) revealing the on-going non-consensual research, (2) assessing the scope of such unethical experiments at the European and the international level, as well as (3) looking for possible solutions to protect citizens from this covert abuse.


Reply 










 fromawaysite says: 


					November 26, 2014 at 7:11 am					



Reblogged this on Today,s Thought.


Reply 






 John Wayne says: 


					November 29, 2014 at 11:22 am					



Nice video, send copies to Ron Paul, and his so called son, i think you would get 2 very different reactions, why is that.


Reply 




Comments Subject to Moderation Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 







Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to receive notifications of new posts by email.







 


We Need to Talk About Sand Hook

Take the Poll 



Take Our Poll
 RSS - Posts
Archives 
Select Month
 January 2015  (10)
 December 2014  (17)
 November 2014  (14)
 October 2014  (16)
 September 2014  (18)
 August 2014  (12)
 July 2014  (16)
 June 2014  (17)
 May 2014  (13)
 April 2014  (8)
 March 2014  (13)
 February 2014  (12)
 January 2014  (11)
 December 2013  (12)
 November 2013  (10)
 October 2013  (14)
 September 2013  (13)
 August 2013  (9)
 July 2013  (10)
 June 2013  (9)
 May 2013  (12)
 April 2013  (13)
 March 2013  (8)
 February 2013  (9)
 January 2013  (15)
 December 2012  (5)
 November 2012  (3)
 October 2012  (3)
 September 2012  (2)
 August 2012  (5)
 July 2012  (4)
 June 2012  (3)
 May 2012  (4)
 April 2012  (4)
 March 2012  (4)

 

Recent Comments 
dachsielady on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…patrickchatsamiably on $Trillion Sandy Hook Lawsuit M…Anne B. on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…Anne B. on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…dachsielady on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…Anne B. on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…Des10emaye on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…Anne B. on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…lophatt on Lanza Home Slated for Dem…lophatt on Lanza Home Slated for Dem… 
 
 


Memory Hole Research Fund 
 

 

My Tweets No Comment
Musical Interlude





 Real Politik » podcastInterview 33: Colin A. Ross MD January 17, 2015Interview 32: Peter Klein January 12, 2015Interview 31: William Shanley and Jim Fetzer December 30, 2014Interview 30: Adnan Zuberi December 25, 2014 



 "Half the truth is often a great lie."-Benjamin Franklin
 "In the twentieth century power wears the mask of tragedy."-Albert Camus
 "Lack of transparency is a huge political advantage."-Prof. Jonathan Gruber

Today’s Top Posts
















Sandy Hook Massacre Timeline Link
MHB Sandy Hook Research & Analysis

 210+ Days

Since JT Challenged AC to Revisit Newtown
Boston Marathon Bombing Timeline Link to Timeline 
 AP WorldAmid mourning, a new generation enters line to Saudi throneSaudi King Abdullah, a gradual modernizer, dead at 90AP PHOTO: Mom's appeal to save Japanese hostageIS-linked militants say countdown for Japan's hostages beganRadiation Network
 Zero HedgeUS Manufacturing Growth Slows To 1 Year Low As Shale Collapse Cripples New Order Spending January 23, 2015Russia May Be Forced Into Production Cuts Says Deputy PM January 23, 2015Deutsche Bank's Most Cynical Take On Draghi's QE Yet: Buy European Stocks Even Though QE Will "Prevent Improvements" January 23, 2015
 Jon Rappoport’s BlogPsychiatric police state: notes from the underground January 23, 2015The artist on trial January 21, 2015Exit From The Matrix: the liberated mind January 20, 2015 Corbett ReportInterview 994 – New World Next Week with James Evan PilatoInterview 993 – Sibel Edmonds on Gladio B and the Paris ShootingPhilip Dru – FLNWO #23
 PublicIntelligence.netEU Parliament Study on Mass Surveillance January 23, 2015DHS NCCIC Report on Assessing Risks of Your Digital Footprint January 20, 2015DoJ Update to Policy Regarding Questioning, Arresting, or Charging Members of the News Media January 19, 2015 





Disclaimer The above articles and comments are the personal opinions of the author / comment poster. Read full disclaimer here.
Foundation-Funded Alternative 
 The Nation BlogJanuary 23, 1973: Nixon Announces Peace Agreement to End the Vietnam WarDon’t Be Fooled: Republicans Are Still as Extreme on Abortion as EverHaiti’s Political EarthquakeA Fine Balance MoJo BlogMississippi Wouldn't Allow This Teacher to Show Kids How to Use a Condom. His Simple Solution Is Brilliant.Terrifying Video Shows Black Man "With His Hands Raised" Shot To Death By New Jersey CopWatch Molly Redden on the GOP Women Protesting the 20-Week Abortion BanFederal Prosecutors Set to Clear Ferguson Cop Who Shot Michael Brown Democracy Now!In Victory for Gov't Whistleblowers, Supreme Court Sides with Fired TSA Air Marshal Who Spoke OutBarrett Brown Sentenced to Five Years in Jail After Reporting on Hacked Private Intelligence Firms"A Systemic Failure": New Calls for Reform as Feds Rule Out Civil Rights Charges for Darren WilsonRemembering Saudi's King Abdullah: "He Was Not a Benevolent Dictator, He Was a Dictator" Truth OutWe Say Water Is a RightHaitians Worry World Bank-Assisted Mining Law Could Result in "Looting"The 2015 State of the Union Address: A Major OmissionDo the United States' Hungry Children Matter?Blog Stats 
2,778,480 hits

 

 Fair Use Statement 
 News Room
Independent Alternative 
 Global Research“American Sniper”: Hollywood’s Racist Propaganda Promoting Military Aggression Spawns Death Threats Against Arabs, Muslims January 23, 2015Journalist Barrett Brown’s Day of Reckoning. Revealed the Machinations of the US National Security Apparatus January 23, 2015NATO Commander Lied Claiming “Russian Invasion of Ukraine” January 23, 2015The Vaccination Quandary: Foiling Dr. Tenpenny’s Trip to Australia January 23, 2015 Intellihub‘Limits on free speech’ – The Pope’s latest effort to bring Muslims and Catholics closer togetherTop Google executive predicts end of the internetState of Texas forcing epileptic man to suffer, facing jail time for trying to self-medicateSuddenly 2015 feels a whole lot like the delusional financial euphoria we saw before the dot-com crash Washington’s BlogObama Has Sentenced Whistleblowers to 25 Times the Jail Time of All Prior U.S. Presidents COMBINEDCNN Serves US Gov Policy, Casts Deceased Saudi Tyrant in Positive LightDo We Want Solutions, Or Just What’s Easy?Top Counter-Terrorism Agency: Citizens Should Be Armed To Stop Terror Attacks Activist PostAssuming We're Not All Incinerated: Eurasian Power in a Post-Western WorldVICTORY: Citizens Stand up to Agenda 21 in Alaska This Is The Beginning Of The End For The Euro Journalist Barrett Brown Sentenced to 63 Months in Prison; Read his Speech Here 

 
Corporate Media 
 USA TodaySaudi King Abdullah dead at 902 more bodies found in ruins of Maryland mansionSenators press Holder on police radar that sees inside homesPrivate school rejects children because parents are gay NBC NewsWhy ISIS, Al Qaeda Should Be Worried About New Saudi KingSaudi Arabia's Billionaire King Buried in Unmarked GraveBracketology: GOP Contenders Face Off This WeekendFirst Ebola Vaccines Head to Liberia CBS News"Countdown has begun" for Japanese hostagesBill Rhoden on Patriots scandal: "The bad guys never really get punished"​Hidden brain damage seen in veterans with blast injuriesJourneys to the mountaintop ABC NewsWhat 'American Sniper' Got Right and WrongInside the Frat Party that Caused $75,000 of Damage 'Married at First Sight': One Year LaterDeadline for ISIS Ransom Passes, but Fate of Captives Unknown New York PostJapanese mom makes teary plea for son held hostage by ISISIsraeli makes ‘magic’ yarmulke to protect Jews from attacksPope to families: Put aside iPhones and talkTown of polygamist leader who sexually assaulted girls divided 


Boutique Corporate Media 
 New York TimesLatest News: ISIS Deadline, Yemen, Obama to IndiaIn Speaker Silver’s Backyard, Views of the Case Against Him Are SplitDealBook: European Central Bank Bets Big on Curing the EconomyKing Abdullah, a Shrewd Force Who Reshaped Saudi Arabia, Dies at 90 NPRYemeni Rebels Call For Mass Rallies After President Steps DownPop Culture Happy Hour: 'Broad City' And Required ReadingWhy Would You Share A Secret With A Stranger? Why Should We Care About Keeping Secrets? WSJ World NewsSaudi King Abdullah DiesYemen's Shiite Rebels Call Mass RalliesLebanese Troops Clash With MilitantsNetanyahu Sets Address to U.S. Congress FT US HomeSaudi throne in line for historic shiftEuro tumbles most in 3 years after ECB moveUPS miscues again during ChristmasAviation and power units lift GE earnings New Yorker News DeskAmerica’s Family-Leave DisgraceDenial and Deflategate: A Patriots Fan’s Stages of GriefThe Political Scene: Obama’s LegacyAll You Ever (or Never) Wanted to Know About Quantitative Easing 
National Association for
Children and Safe Technology
 


Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
			 | 
The Newsy Theme. Design by Themify.		



















































Follow

Follow “Memory Hole”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 8,331 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






%d bloggers like this:





 




