FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter | Here Comes The Sun

FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter | Here Comes The Sun







Here Comes The Sun


Just another WordPress.com site





Skip to content
HomeAbout







← Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman
Indigenous Voices From Real Planet Earth →


FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter

Posted on November 28, 2014 by Dublinsmick  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is more research and analysis in this shooting. Here is a former post detailing the work of James Tracey. Professor Tracey is not stranger to media criticism and one of the few intellectuals who speak about key issues affecting Americans with great risk to his career and family I might add.
http://memoryholeblog.com/2014/11/21/fsu-shooting-was-myron-may-a-targeted-individual/comment-page-1/#comment-81269
Ph.D James Tracey of Florida Atlantic University Communications Professor.
This suicide letter was left by Myron May.
The following is the text of the letter that Myron May sent to 10 recipients, along with a flash drive and some other documents. Most of these materials have been confiscated by federal authorities. Photos of said signed correspondence has also been received and reviewed but are not posted here-JFT
VIA CERTIFIED MAIL: RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
November 17, 2014
Dear Ms. Mitchell and other addressees,
The purpose of this letter is threefold. First, I would like to make a sincere plea to you not to let my personal story die. Enclosed within this letter you will find a USB flash drive containing a personal testimony from me about the financial, emotional, and psychological pain that I have endured over the course of the past few months since I discovered that I was a targeted individual. I have literally been forced to endure a living hell.
There are thousands of targeted individuals within the United States that literally suffer each and every day at the hands of our government. Personally, I have experienced significant harassment from law enforcement in every place that I have been these past few months.
Second, over the coming days and weeks, you will hear numerous people trying to label me as a person with mental health issues. If you simply google “targeted individual”, “gang stalking”, “freedom from covert harassment and surveillance”, or “Dr. Robert Duncan”, you will see that what I have experienced, albeit not widely known, is very real. In addition, you can find various videos on YouTube by searching under these exact same search terms.
Our government is able to capitalize on this lack of knowledge among the general population to curb sentiments toward questioning the mental health of targeted individuals rather than admitting the truth: that there is a system of covert torture of ordinary innocent citizens that is happening within our borders.
I have not told a single person exactly what I intend to do. And only you 8 people know that I intend to do anything at all–but my goal is to garner some much-needed media attention to the plight of targeted individuals. Because we are a marginalized group with few financial assets. Coincidentally, that means we get ignored.
Third, enclosed within, you will also find a sample letter to Congress. Please encourage as many people as you can to send a copy of this letter to Congress. My hope is that if enough people take a genuine concern into the struggles of targeted individuals, then Congress will have to do something to stop it once and for all. Not like the false machinations of stopping it that took place in the 70’s with COINTELPRO. I apologize for putting this responsibility on you guys. But you are the people that I know and trust. I am confident that Ms. Mitchell will not allow my story to die. I sincerely hope that you will
1. Keep an electronic copy of my story for yourself.
2. Provide a copy for distribution to media outlets.
3. Make sure that Ms. Mitchell gets a copy. Although I am sending her a copy, I fear that it may be intercepted. And
4. See to it that if my story is removed from the internet, that is YouTube and Vimeo, etc., it will be properly re-uploaded. I know that I’m asking for a lot. But please assist me with this.
Lastly, please whisper a prayer for my soul. I am still a believer and honestly feel there is no hope for me. Consequently, I am making a sacrifice so that others in my same position might have a chance at a normal, harassment-free life. I realize that my methods are not the best selection and probably will not be perceived as the selection of a Christ follower. But I have prayed incessantly for months to no avail. There are targeted individuals that have endured this torture for decades without any relief. And what targeted individuals need more than anything is media attention.
OTHER TARGETED INDIVIDUALS
[Names Deleted]
Your brother in Christ,
Myron May
http://memoryholeblog.com/2014/11/24/myron-mays-suicide-letter/
Another quite interesting analysis is also found at the Memory Hole.
FSU Shooting: The Anticipation of Mass Fraud
By Dr. Jason Kissner
While it is obviously vital to detect and deconstruct the fictitious narratives that often accompany mass events charged with political significance, here we will discuss another potential line of thought that should perhaps be pursued: the anticipation of mass fraud.
Clearly, such a project confronts several major challenges. Foremost among them, perhaps, is accommodating the necessity to place strictures upon conjecture that are sufficient to distinguish reasoned supposition from wild speculation.
In recognition of this chief concern, the following addresses the FSU active shooting and applies a tentative, simple framework that is intended to guide the anticipation of mass fraud. The output of the analysis is, it is believed, a reasonable conjecture as to the occurrence of another conceivably linked mass event that will contain elements of fraud.
The elements of the simple framework, which can interact depending on the particular analysis one is performing, are:
1. A careful analysis of empirical irregularities associated with previous mass events reasonably believed to have been, at least in certain respects, fraudulent
2. Close inspection of timing issues pertaining to the release of information/disinformation regarding previous mass events that carry mass political significance
Discussion of the two elements is in order, but first it should be noted that the framework is inherently domain-constrained. That is, it is intended to apply only to the anticipation of mass events the occurrence of which can be reasonably anticipated because they might be viewed, on an empirical basis as subtended by previous events (this will become more clear as we proceed).
In other words, the set of potential mass frauds that cannot be conjectured, in specific ways, to build on the momentum of previous mass frauds are excluded from the coverage of the framework.
The elements can be fleshed out with application to the FSU active shooting. With respect to the first element and considering, at this point, the FSU active shooting as a “previous” mass event, we can observe that active shootings in which active shooters have returned to schools they once attended (e.g., several years prior) are, empirically, very rare.
Furthermore, Myron May (the alleged FSU active shooter) is said to have sent 10 packages before the shooting. I am not sure, but May might well have been the first active shooter to have done something like this. We might add that May is said, in the just-now linked CNN article, to have believed that the recipients were to receive the packages on Friday, the day after the shooting. Why May, if he were planning on a Thursday shooting, wouldn’t have sent the “Priority Mail” packages earlier is a reasonable question to ask.
Moreover, are we to believe that May’s selection of Priority Mail rather than, say, Express mail is to be attributed to financial concerns, mental illness, or some combination thereof? Given the circumstances, that seems rather unlikely. For example, May, a former prosecutor, had to have been aware that any packages he sent that were still in the system would be intercepted subsequent to the shooting, yet he seems to have believed it very important that the packages be received. Of course, it is possible that the packages are shams.
Another empirical oddity is that May seems to have been more itinerant than typical active shooters are, having taken up residences in, for example (there may be others) Texas and New Mexico before his return to Tallahassee.
And, bearing on the possibility that May might have been a TI, active shooters don’t typically hear voices and complain of energy weapons being directed against them either, although there are of course other examples of this having happened, as we saw with Aaron Alexis (another alliterative name, somewhat curiously—and one wonders whether, for some reason, the frequency of alliterative names among TIs is statistically greater than in the general population).
With reference to this last set of empirical irregularities, the expectation has to be that the general public will attribute May’s doings to a mental illness such as schizophrenia. What we get, therefore, are empirical questions in connection with the factor analytic structure of, say, schizophrenia as opposed to TI symptom clusters. For example, how often do schizophrenics exhibit the degree of itineracy that May apparently did?
If May was a TI, the empirical fact that active shooters very rarely execute active shootings at schools they once attended could be especially significant. A priori, May could have acted at any of the other locations he resided, but he acted at FSU—and precipitously, quite soon after his arrival in Tallahassee.
Alone, the fact that he had ties to Tallahassee is not necessarily sufficient to account for the fact that the active shooting event took place at FSU since, as was stated above, active shooters at schools have only very rarely executed shootings at schools they’ve once attended. And, more generally, active shooters, whether they shoot in schools or not, aren’t typically “itinerant returners.”
In fact, if May was a TI, it is reasonable to suppose that he was directed to FSU—which might have been made easier to do by virtue of the fact that he had ties to the location. Thus, empirical considerations might be taken to suggest that the FSU event location was statistically very unusual, but perhaps not random.
This combination of empirically unusual but perhaps not random should, I believe, be a core background idea when attempting to anticipate future mass frauds. So why FSU?
This brings us to the second component, which has to do with the timing of information/disinformation relating to previous mass events charged with political significance.
Under this component, we might want to recognize that we don’t know what might be in the ten packages May sent, if he sent them at all. But that we are to believe he did send them might be all that matters. The information, if such it is, in those ten packages might well provide for a steady stream of injections that help keep the FSU shooting front and center until it is time to move to the next stage.
Perhaps more importantly, though, we should consider that a day after the FSU event, the Connecticut Office of the Child Advocate released a 114 page report relating to Adam Lanza and hammering on gun control and mental illness. And, referencing the report, CNN is banging on about “Red Flags Missed at Newtown.” Many other “news” outlets have behaved similarly—seizing on, for some reason, the FSU event in particular, as an opportunity to re-inject the Sandy Hook fraud into mass consciousness.
It should go without saying that the 114 page report could have been released a week ago, or two weeks ago, etc. Instead, it was released the day after the FSU event. Partly, this functions to inculcate the notion that TI cases are simply mental illness cases, so that we are told implicitly to identify persons such as Mayes with the Adam Lanza construct.
But it may also be that the timing of the release has even more ominous implications. Largely, the Sandy Hook operation was a failure on the issue of gun control, although it has attained considerable success along the mental health monitoring front.
And yet, even from the standpoint of gun control, Sandy Hook still retains appreciable potential in the sense that it still reverberates in the public psyche, and the reverberations might well be harnessed to other active shooting events so as to maximize cumulative impact.
On this score, the evidence is clear that Sandy Hook has been tethered to FSU. This is the upshot of the analysis under component 2. The upshot of the component 1 analysis, you may recall, was that FSU may well have been a non-random target destination.
When these two conclusions are synthesized, we arrive at the assessment that the Sandy Hook and FSU events might be parlayed so as to result in something even more impactful than Sandy Hook.
Given Sandy Hook’s domination of the media cycle, such an event would have to sort into the register of the “very big” indeed. It may prove worthwhile to think here of the fact that while Sandy Hook was momentous, it did not involve victimization relating to a national institution steeped in tradition—an institution such as the NCAA Championship game.
FSU is very well situated to participate in the ridiculous four team playoff scheme that has been constructed (and it is worth noting that Condi Rice sits on the Playoff Selection Committee). Even with a loss, it is quite conceivable that FSU would be selected anyway; as of right now FSU is undefeated.
Another active shooting at a university whose football team is participating in the four team playoff would resonate profoundly if carefully, and malevolently, timed. ESPN fanatics would be reached for days on end, as well as causal viewers of the extravaganza.
Of course, the playoff games will take place during winter break, but certain persons will be on campus anyway—and there are always the early days of December. And, there is always the mind-bogglingly horrific possibility that the contact could be in January, and very directly tied to the games.
Such an event might well prompt even a “Republican” Congress to pass gun control legislation.
In sum, it is perhaps inherent in the nature of anticipation of such events as these that the probability of something like the above transpiring should be accounted as rather low, but the prospect does arguably have some empirical support in active shooting data as well as other information—and it meshes very well with Obama’s “lame-duck” determination to secure his fraudulent legacy.

Dr. Jason Kissner is associate professor of criminology at California State University, Fresno. He holds degrees from Florida State University, The University of Florida, and Cornell University School of Law. Kissner’s research interests include active shootings and self-control. You can reach him at crimprof2010[ at]hotmail.com.
http://memoryholeblog.com/2014/11/26/fsu-shooting-the-anticipation-of-mass-fraud/#more-15434
Breaking News


About these ads






Related
 

												This entry was posted in Uncategorized and tagged FSU Gunman Myron May's Suicide Letter. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman
Indigenous Voices From Real Planet Earth →


3 Responses to FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter




 vivekchaturvedi6666 says: 

				November 28, 2014 at 1:04 AM 
Truth and lies…..where lies the truth?
Who knows on the outside Dub, all I can do is polish my Vivek (discenrment!!!) :-)
Hope you are pulling through fine my friend…


Reply 





 Dublinsmick says: 

				November 30, 2014 at 6:02 PM 
Hey Vivek, Thanks I am doing O.K. how about you? Never a dull moment on this orb.


Reply 







 Wellington Antonio Doninelli Pereira says: 

				November 28, 2014 at 9:15 AM 
Antonio you can’t advocate violence on the internet. 


Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 







View My Stats 
View My
Stats
Many counter resets have erased views, so who knows 
468,141  View My Stats

Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com 
DUBLINMICK’S BREAKING NEWS: (Separate Site)  Updated Daily By My Staff And Think Tank
This blog will make more sense to you if you read this first-The Naked Ape
Aadivaahan: A man who maintains his center much better than I-Cathartes Aura-The battle is within
The Secret of Secrets: Tunnels in Bucegi Mountains — Displaying our true history discovered in 2003-True Origin Of Life On Earth
1. Most popular post by far, Monkey Blood, RH Negative Blood Types, Presidents And Royalty (60, 000 hits) 9-29-14
Who Are The Nefilim, Where Did They Go, Will They Return?-SECOND MOST POPULAR POST (15,000 hits)
Helter Skelter
Ebola-Health Impact News
US bioweapons lab with links to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation at core of Ebola epidemic
Vanga Predicts Russia To Rule The World
Ebola Tracking
Global Incident Map
In The Know 7
The all seeing eye is inside your head
Hercolubus The Greatest Mystery Of The Modern Era
Tsar Nicholas’ 4 Daughters reportedly raped
The Black Swan Event
Why Do Popes Wear A Yarmulke
A Tornado Struck The Plutonium Plant In Kentucky-Nothing To See Here
4. Most popular posts,  Hitler Was A Rothschild And So Was His Daughter Angela
The Mayan Elders
In Search Of Black Assassins
65 Million Year Old Pyramids Found In Crimea
Rothschild Papal And Royal Knights-Nazi Zionist Policy That Rules The World
The Atlantean Conspiracy
Edgar Cayce’s Prophecy Comes True: Hall of Records Discovered
The Shawnee Prophet Tecumseh Predicts Death Of Presidents On Zero Year
hirundine
Conspiracy Theory Part II
Religion Means Pathway To Truth
Climate Change
Migration Of Khazars Into Japan
The Empire
Reich Alive And Well In Benelux Union
The African Dogon
Bibliotecapleyades Everything You Always Wanted To Know
WHALE
The Atlantean Conspiracy
in5D
3. Most popular posts, The Jack Reed Theory, Mystery Tectonic Plate In The Gulf
Israelites Came To Ancient Japan
The Real Hell’s Angels
5. Thurmond Lake Earthquake Threatens Savannah River Nuclear Plant
6. Cayce Predicts Parts Of Georgia And SC To Go Under The Sea-Watch Pelee
AANGIRFAN NEW
AANGIRFAN
Kenny’s Side Show: The Soldier’s Revolt, Vietnam
The Jumping Jack Flash Hypothesis: Methane Extinction Level Event
Kahlil Gibran
The Louisiana Sinkhole Bugle
THE HAU DE NO SAU NEE MESSAGE TO THE WESTERN WORLD
The Truth Seeker
Black Sun Rising
Pattie L. Brassard Former NASA And Bell Lab Specialist Warns Of Second Sun And Earthquakes
Conspiracy Planet
Rasuratan Web
Vatican Crimes
Giants Of The Solomon Islands (must read)
Greg Hallett-Hitler Was A British Agent
God Save The Queen-Greg Hallett Interview With Jim Fetzer
Tecumseh_Panther Across The Sky: Predicts New Madrid Quake, death of 7 presidents on 0 Year
Copper Deficiency (The Unveiling) The Culling Of The Sheep
The Louisiana Sinkhole Bugle
Twelfthbough
DeepIntoArtLifeWest
Enenews: Fukushime The Extinction Level Event
Swami Abhedananda Takes On Churchianity
The Captain (AJIT VADAKAYIL) Rothschild Starves 5 Million Gengalis
Thirteenth Monkey
Earthfiles
Dark Forces (Rasputin)
Musings Of A Tired Soul
Flogging Dead Horses
Zombiesoup
EasyIdler
Richard Edmondson
Essene Gospel
The Grape Cure
Isrealites In Japan
The Memory Hole
Online Publishing, Hitler Was A British Agent
Dave McGowan: Rock and Roll, Hippies And The CIA
Cosmic Convergence
Canadian Holocaust
Jim Stone
Trout Clan Campfire
Joe Bageant
PASHUPATI’S MRIDANG
Before It’s News
Lobsong Rampa
Madcow
Vortex
Desdemonadespair
Apartheid Fort New Zealand
The American Mercury
Occurrences Domestic Foreign
Veritopian: No More Mysteries…
PPJ Gazette
Humans Are Free
TAPS BLOG
The Memory Hole
Information Clearinghouse
Johanna Brandt And The Grape Cure
Dr. Hulda Clark On Grapes
Welcome My Friends To The Show That Never Ends
Tales From The Nuclear Age
ZoSo’s TRUTHTALK13
Der Honigmann sagt
Recent Comments 
Gabreal Jones on The Background Of Archbishop P…Dublinsmick on Thawing Permafrost: The Speed…Dublinsmick on Thawing Permafrost: The Speed…flyingcuttlefish on Thawing Permafrost: The Speed…hirundine608 on Thawing Permafrost: The Speed…hirundine608 on 2015 Predictions: BRICS and Dr…Dublinsmick on Why Do Popes Wear A Yarmu…hirundine608 on Why Do Popes Wear A Yarmu…jibblogger on The Migration Of The Khazar In…peter berridge on Large Earthquake of 6-7 Near P…Janet Napolitano Res… on The Amazing Prophecies of Benj…Janet Napolitano Res… on Jack Reed’s Missing Tect…Janet Napolitano Res… on Janet Napolitano Resigns Warni…Dublinsmick on The Ancient Giants Who Ruled…Profetens sekretær on The Ancient Giants Who Ruled… 
Top Posts & PagesMonkey Blood, RH Negative Blood Types, Presidents And Royalty
Bulgarian Psychic Vanga Predicts Nothing Will Be left But The Glory Of Vladimir, No Word If This Was Lenin Or Putin, Russia To Be The World's Only Superpower
Switzerland Center Of Evil
Unbelievable Underwater Photos Of Atlantis Off Cuba, Pyramids Are 3 Times The Size of Cheops, Cayce Was Right! There Was A Polar Shift
65 Million Year Old Pyramid Is Discovered In Crimea With A Crowned Mummy-Crimea Just Became More Valuable
Edgar Cayce’s Prophecy Comes True: Hall of Records Discovered
Who Are The Nefilim, Where Did They Go, Will They Return?
The Background Of Archbishop Pacelli-Stalin And Hitler All Converge In Rome
Hitler Was A Rothschild And So Was His Daughter Angela
Now We Know What Happened To The Mayans-Tunnels Under Tikal Pyramid Extend 800 Kilometers To The Other Side Of The Country-Secrets Of The Bucegi Mountains
  Recent Posts 

The Background Of Archbishop Pacelli-Stalin And Hitler All Converge In Rome


Switzerland Center Of Evil


Tsar Nicholas’s Four Daughters Reportedly Raped


2015 Predictions: BRICS and Drones may break my bones…


Thawing Permafrost: The Speed Of Coastal Erosion In Eastern Siberia Has Nearly Doubled-Arctic Methane Released At Blinding Speed-Climate Change-Core Of Earth Heats Up


Strange Sounds in the Sky – Rumblings- Vibrations (Day And Night) Part II


Why Do Popes Wear A Yarmulke


2015: The Great Tribulation Of The 3rd Millennium Foreshadowed By The Shemitah Jubilee


What Is Up With O.J. Simpson?


The Ancient Giants Who Ruled America


Secret History Revealed —Vladimir Putin’s Russia: Perfect Foil To The Anglo-American Axis And Their New World ‘Order’-Why They Hate Him


Mushroom-shaped “pink cloud” seen at Fukushima after Reactor 3 exploded — Film: Nuclear bomb explosions caused “pink clouds of radiation”


The Top Of The Pyramid-The Rothschilds The British Crown And The Vatican Rule The World


The Matrix


Smithsonian Admits to Destruction of Thousands of Giant Human Skeletons in Early 1900′s


Lee Harvey Oswald: Unsung Hero Who Alerted JFK To ‘Assassination Plot’ In Chicago


The Manson Family Lived On A Movie Set-The Crime Scene Was The Home Of A Director Famous For Slasher Movies-The Victim Was An Actress


The Vatican And The Jesuits


Indigenous Voices From Real Planet Earth


FSU Gunman Myron May’s Suicide Letter


Update On Myron May The Florida State University Gunman


Florida State University Shocked By Three Students Wounded By Gunman In Strozier Library


Satanic Ritual Abuse In Scotland


Putin The  Judoka Understands Western Foreign Policy Is Linked To London-A Fact Lost On Washingto Roberts


Using Sandy Hook as Pretext-Administration Backs Psychiatric Surveillance of School Children


Sink Hole Under Tennessee’s Boone Dam-7 Nuclear Plants Down Stream-Meltdowns An Absolute Certainty If Dam Fails


Hidden Italy: The Forbidden Cyclopean Ruins (Of Giants From Atlantis?)


Massive Explosion On Mars As It Is Hit By Comet


With The Ebola Meme The Theme Is Green


BREAKING: Formaldeyde in Water Allegedly Causing Ebola-like Symptoms-Liberian Man Arrested Putting Formaldehyde In Wells


Jim Stone Receiving Information Ebola is not real and the only people who have gotten sick are those who have received treatments and injections from the Red Cross


Kenneth Ray Kirkham Has Passed Away (Kenny’s sideshow)


GARCINIA KOLA is used in many tropical countries to fight infectious diseases such as Aids and the Ebola virus- It has shown to posses anti-inflammatory-antimicrobial and antiviral properties-also to increase lung function


The Naked Ape And His Killing Spree-Time For A Synthesis


More On The Bucegi Mountains And The Hall Of Records-Holographic Projections Of Man’s Time Upon The Earth


Now We Know What Happened To The Mayans-Tunnels Under Tikal Pyramid Extend 800 Kilometers To The Other Side Of The Country-Secrets Of The Bucegi Mountains


Sao Paulo Out Of Water In 100 Days-South East Louisana Losing 16 Miles Of Land A Year-Warm Water Flowing Into The Arctic


Dark Snow And The Glacial Ice Tea


It Is The Sun


“The Nuclear Energy Paradigm Collides with Earth Changes and Technospheric Breakdown” — The Final Chapter


September 11th, 2001 Marks The Beginning Of The End Of The KALI YUGA


Enduring Historical Myths And The Power Of Propaganda


Cyanotoxin A Neurotoxin In The Great Lakes And All 50 States Turns Animal Fat Yellow With Great Pain-Zombie Alligators


The Biosphere Approaches Critical Points Of No Return: Cosmic Convergence


Ziobonics Can You Speak It-Subject Worthy Of A College Curriculum


One In Three Carry RFID Chips And There Is A Strong Correlation To Recent Dental Work!


Climate Change Denial Industry Marches On As China Loses 50,000 Rivers And California Dries Up: Other Suppressed News From The Matrix Suppressed By Dead Enders


The World’s Most Dangerous Dams With Spectacular Possiblities From Our Planners Hovering Above Nuclear Plants


Nothing Is As It Seems In The Rabbit Hole


Ferguson Killing – Real Death or Staged Agitation Propaganda


191,000 Visits when StatCounter Activated Sometime around 23 hundred years ago we see in the Mahabharata Ydhishthira has a vision of the age to come: I see the coming of another age, where barbaric kings rule over a vicious, broken world, where puny, fearful men live tiny lives, white hair at sixteen, copulating with animals, their women perfect whores, making love with greedy mouths. The cows dry, trees stunted, no more flowers, no more purity, ambition, corruption, the age of Kali, the black time."

 View My Stats 
468,141 

 



Archives 
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012

 







 Unless we put medical freedom into the Constitution the time will comee when medicine will organize itself into an undercover dictatorship. To restrict the art of healing to doctors and deny equal privileges to others will constitute the Bastille of medical science. All such laws are un-American and despotic. 
Benjamin Rush, Signer of the Declaration of Independence
Destiny comes to those who listen and fate finds the rest. 
Frederick Nietzsche who said (I am paraphrasing) that to get to a semblance of truth, one must start by throwing out everything the theologians want to pass off as truth!
Believe those who are seeking the truth. Doubt those who find it. ~Andre Gide
If you chase two rabbits you will not catch either one. Russian
John Swinton on the Free Press 
One night, probably in 1880, John Swinton, then the preeminent New York journalist, was the guest of honour at a banquet given him by the leaders of his craft. Someone who knew neither the press nor Swinton offered a toast to the independent press. Swinton outraged his colleagues by replying:
“There is no such thing, at this date of the world’s history, in America, as an independent press. You know it and I know it.
There is not one of you who dares to write your honest opinions, and if you did, you know beforehand that it would never appear in print. I am paid weekly for keeping my honest opinion out of the paper I am connected with.
Others of you are paid similar salaries for similar things, and any of you who would be so foolish as to write honest opinions would be out on the streets looking for another job. If I allowed my honest opinions to appear in one issue of my paper, before twenty-four hours my occupation would be gone.
The business of the journalists is to destroy the truth, to lie outright, to pervert, to vilify, to fawn at the feet of mammon, and to sell his country and his race for his daily bread. You know it and I know it, and what folly is this toasting an independent press?
We are the tools and vassals of rich men behind the scenes. We are the jumping jacks, they pull the strings and we dance. Our talents, our possibilities and our lives are all the property of other men. We are intellectual prostitutes.”
I believe that men are generally still a little afraid of the dark, though the witches are all hung, and Christianity and candles have been introduced. ~Henry David Thoreau, "Solitude," Walden, 1854
The angels have grown tired of the clever .... Kahlil Gibran
Some people walk in the rain others just get wet.
A member of the Ohiyesa Santee Sioux was asked about the sabbath and he replied that he saw no need to set aside one day a week for God, for an indian all days are God's days. 
“Sometimes people hold a core belief that is very strong. When they are presented with evidence that works against that belief, the new evidence cannot be accepted. It would create a feeling that is extremely uncomfortable, called cognitive dissonance. And because it is so important to protect the core belief, they will rationalize, ignore and even deny anything that doesn’t fit in with the core belief.” -Frantz Fanon”
It is much easier to fool someone than to to convince them they have been fooled ... Mark Twain
I usually lump organized religion, organized labor, and organized crime together. The Mafia gets points for having the best restaurants.
Faith is spiritualized imagination
To me faith means not worrying. ~John Dewey
“The real hopeless victims of mental illness are to be found among those who appear to be most normal. "Many of them are normal because they are so well adjusted to our mode of existence, because their human voice has been silenced so early in their lives, that they do not even struggle or suffer or develop symptoms as the neurotic does." They are normal not in what may be called the absolute sense of the word; they are normal only in relation to a profoundly abnormal society. Their perfect adjustment to that abnormal society is a measure of their mental sickness. These millions of abnormally normal people, living without fuss in a society to which, if they were fully human beings, they ought not to be adjusted.”
Aldous Huxley Brave New World

 



 An Inuit hunter asked the local missionary priest: "If I did not know about God and sin, would I go to hell?" "No," said the priest, "not if you did not know." "Then why," asked the Inuit earnestly, "did you tell me?" ~Annie Dillard, Pilgrim at Tinker Creek.
I didn't know I had a quarrel with him. ~Henry Thoreau in answer to the question, "Have you made your peace with God?"
Man is a Religious Animal. He is the only Religious Animal. He is the only animal that has the True Religion - several of them. He is the only animal that loves his neighbor as himself and cuts his throat if his theology isn't straight. He has made a graveyard of the globe in trying his honest best to smooth his brother's path to happiness and heaven. ~Mark Twain
Religion is regarded by the common people as true, by the wise as false, and by the rulers as useful. ~Seneca the Younger
The past actually happened but history is only what someone wrote down. ~A. Whitney Brown, The Big Picture
Woe unto the defeated,
whom history treads
into the dust.
~Arthur Koestler, Darkness at Noon
 "Beware of the pedant, the man in the ivory tower, who cannot be trusted any more than the rabble of the streets.  Too long cloistered in the halls of academe, the first are dangerous, for they fail to understand the world, and know not reality. The second are like a mindless storm, roaring and insatiable, full of rage, and a self righteous and acquisitive passion Cicero
All things are subject to interpretation whichever interpretation prevails at a given time is a function of power and not truth.......Nietzsche
He who fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby become a monster. And if you gaze long into the abyss, the abyss gazes also into you....Nietzsche
How good bad music and bad reason sound when one marches against an enemy...Nietzsche
Whatever is done for love always occurs beyond good and evil......Nietzsche
In heaven all the interesting people are missing.....Nietzsche
The kingdom of heaven is a condition of the heart..not something that comes upon the earth or after death.....Nietzsche
We should consider everyday lost which we do not dance at least once.....Nietzsche
Against boredom the gods themselves fight in vain.....Nietzsche
You can see a lot by just looking
Who is more foolish, the child afraid of the dark or the man afraid of the light?
“The real hopeless victims of mental illness are to be found among those who appear to be most normal.
“Many of them are normal because they are so well adjusted to our mode of existence, because their human voice has been silenced so early in their lives, that they do not even struggle or suffer or develop symptoms as the neurotic does.
They are normal not in what may be called the absolute sense of the word; they are normal only in relation to a profoundly abnormal society. Their perfect adjustment to that abnormal society is a measure of their mental sickness.
These millions of abnormally normal people, living without fuss in a society to which, if they were fully human beings, they ought not to be adjusted.” -Aldous Huxley, Brave New World Revisited
Scriptures: the sacred books of our holy religion, as distinguished from the false and profane writings on which all other faiths are based. ~Ambrose Bierce
The question before the human race is, whether the God of nature shall govern the world by his own laws, or whether priests and kings shall rule it by fictitious miracles? ~John Adams, letter to Thomas Jefferson, 20 June 1815
— H.L. Mencken, The Baltimore Evening Sun, July 26, 1920
“Democracy is the theory that the common people know what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard.”
Democracy too is a religion. It is the worship of jackals by jackasses.
“As democracy is perfected, the office of the President represents, more and more closely, the inner soul of the people. On some great and glorious day, the plain folks of the land will reach their heart’s desire at last and the White House will be occupied by a downright fool and complete narcissistic moron.”
1920

 



 I viewed my fellow man not as a fallen angel, but as a risen ape. ~Desmond Morris, The Naked Ape...
The study of crime begins with the knowledge of oneself. ~Henry Miller, The Air-Conditioned Nightmare, 1945.....
There is great security in the prisons we create for ourselves. ~Stephen G. Scalese, The Whisper in Your Heart.......
And remember, no matter where you go, there you are. ~Confucius........
There are at least two kinds of cowards. One kind always lives with himself, afraid to face the world. The other kind lives with the world, afraid to face himself........
It is not easy to find happiness in ourselves, and it is not possible to find it elsewhere. ~Agnes Repplier.......
Never be afraid to sit awhile and think. ~Lorraine Hansberry, A Raisin in the Sun.......
It's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see. ~Henry David Thoreau.......
History is a vast early warning system. ~Norman Cousins........
There's more to the truth than just the facts. ~Author Unknown.........
If a man who cannot count finds a four-leaf clover, is he lucky?
~Stanislaw J. Lec.......
To repeat what others have said requires education, to challenge it requires brains. Mary Pettibone Poule..........Glass eye in a keyhole.......
Insanity in individuals is something rare..but in groups, parties, nations, and epochs it is the rule....Nietzsche........
Occident: The part of the world lying west (or east) of the Orient. It is largely inhabited by Christians, a powerful subtribe of the Hypocrites, whose principal industries are murder and cheating, which they are pleased to call "war" and "commerce." These, also, are the principal industries of the Orient. ~Ambrose Bierce, The Devil's Dictionary.........
"There are days when you need someone who just wants to be your sunshine and not the air you breathe.".........
We would rather forgive the evil proliferating all around us than the rebellion against it, which we mistake for the true evil - Arno Gruen (Betrayal of the Self)........
For animals earth is hell, and men are the demons who torture them...Arthur Schopenhauer........
History records no conflict greater or more long enduring than that of humanity against the truth ~ Brendan Gil.......
Those who represent an ideal beyond the comprehension of the masses must face the persecution of the unthinking multitude who are without the divine idealism which inspires progress and those rational faculties which unerringly sift truth from falsehood." -Manly Palmer Hall..........
If you cannot be a student of logic, at least be a casual fan........
“To know when one does not know is best. To think one knows when one does not know is a dire disease.” Taoism: Tao Te Ching
“The fool who knows that he is a fool is for that very reason a wise man; the fool who thinks he is wise is called a fool indeed.” Buddhism: Dhammapada
The indian does not understand why the Christian sets aside one day as the sabbath-To the indian all days are God's days ... Santee Sioux
Rodney Alcala, Ted Bundy, Wm Gacy, Son of Sam, Jeffrey Dahmer, Lenin, Marx, The Windsors, Trotsky and Victor Rothschild all have one thing in common and if you don't know what it is, I suggest you find out as soon as possible!
Our race is the Master Race. We are divine gods on this planet. We are as different from the inferior races as they are from insects. In fact, compared to our race, other races are beasts and animals, cattle at best. Other races are considered as human excrement. Our destiny is to rule over the inferior races. Our earthly kingdom will be ruled by our leader with a rod of iron. The masses will lick our feet and serve us as our slaves."
-Menachem Begin (Israeli Prime Minister, 1977-1983)
At times articles here are reproduced in accordance with Section 107 of title 17 of the Copyright Law of the United States relating to fair-use and is for the purposes of criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship, and research. If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner. Be aware no violence is advocated or should be attributed to this site, nor any liability that might ensue due to perceived advice from any information found here whether from medical articles or other. That is up to your discretion. If you feel that some type of copyright infringement has occurred, kindly point it out and it will be removed.

 




					Here Comes The Sun				


The Twenty Ten Theme.				Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
			































Follow

Follow “Here Comes The Sun”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 157 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com





 




