Florida State Seminoles come up short in road loss to Syracuse Orange | FOX Sports
Florida State Seminoles come up short in road loss to Syracuse Orange | FOX Sports


  








☰
FOXSPORTS

 

HOME

SPORTS



NFL


MLB


NCAA FB


NASCAR


UFC


Soccer


NBA


NHL


NCAA BK


GOLF


TENNIS


BOXING


MOTOR RACING


HORSE RACING


WORLD CUP


OLYMPICS


OTHER SPORTS




WATCH


FANTASY


MORE





Search



SEARCH



 Search 








VIEW FULL LIST » 








Sign In






Profile & Email Settings
Account Info & Linking
Sign Out
















Florida & Sun Sports

MENU











Home



Headlines


HOME


 TV Listings


BACK




TV Listings


Alternate Channel Information


Team-by-Team Printable Broadcast Schedules







Videos


 Teams


BACK




MLB

Tampa Bay Rays


Miami Marlins


NBA

Orlando Magic


Miami Heat


NHL

Tampa Bay Lightning


Florida Panthers


NFL

Tampa Bay Buccaneers


Miami Dolphins


Jacksonville Jaguars






College Football


Florida Gators



Florida State Seminoles



Miami (FL) Hurricanes


College Basketball


Florida Gators



Florida State Seminoles



Miami (FL) Hurricanes







Outdoors


 Writers


BACK




Andrew Astleford


Christina De Nicola


Hana Ostapchuk


Jameson Olive


Ken Hornack


Michael Jay Welch


Paul Kennedy


Scott Carter


Surya Fernandez







Podcasts


 Fan Rewards

BACK




Heat Fan Rewards


Magic Fan Rewards


Panthers Fan Rewards


Lightning Fan Rewards







 FOX Sports Go


BACK




Miami Heat


Orlando Magic







The Finsiders


Prep Zone


News


Press Releases


Contact Us


About Us


MORE




BACK



















☰


FOXSPORTS
































 

 FOX Sports Florida
 FOX Sports Florida 


 GIRLS 
 VIDEO 
 SOCIAL 












FLORIDA GIRLS









Check out bios, photos, videos and much more of the FS Florida Girls!






FLORIDA VIDEOS















'Inside the Panthers: Top of the Class' preview









Killorn leads Lightning past Canucks









Heat can't keep up with Thunder









2015 NFL Draft Preview









Panthers continue losing streak with loss to Canucks












FLORIDA SOCIAL










+ FOX Sports Florida on Facebook









+ FOX Sports Florida on Twitter









+ FOX Sports Florida on YouTube









+ FOX Sports Florida on Instagram






















































Florida State comes up short in road loss to Syracuse







AP


JAN 11, 2015 10:39p ET 


+




 






JAN 11, 2015 10:39p ET 









share 0





Tweet 0











0
















































Rich Barnes / USA TODAY Sports


Florida State Seminoles guard Devon Bookert (1) drives to the basket past Syracuse Orange guard Trevor Cooney (10) during the second half at the Carrier Dome. 









AP


Share This Story
 


Tweet












Updated JAN 12, 2015 9:40a ET


 
 
 


 













Syracuse's junior guard scored a season-high 28 points on a season-best 7 3-pointers to lead the Orange (12-4, 3-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) to a 70-57 win over the Seminoles (9-7, 1-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) in the Carrier Dome.
The win was SU's sixth straight.
"We ran into a buzz saw," said Florida State coach Leonard Hamilton. "I actually thought we did a pretty good job defending him tonight, but he was in a zone. I was kind of hoping he'd wait one more game before he had a game like tonight. My biggest concern was that someone would go off and be successful. That makes it difficult for us with the team we have now."
Cooney entered the game hitting 36 percent from the 3, but he was hot from the start, hitting a jumper to tie the game at 2 and his first 3-pointer at 16:50.
Another 3 extended the Orange lead to 15-8 and his third 3 of the first half ballooned the Orange lead to 23-12 with 8:44 to go.
Cooney's final 3 of the half gave the Orange its biggest lead at that point, 33-16, with under four minutes to go.
In all, he was 4 of 7 from the 3-point line in the first half to help lead Syracuse to a 35-22 lead at the break. He followed that with a 3-for-4 performance from beyond the arc in the second half and keyed a 19-10 Orange run after the Seminoles had cut the lead to 51-42 with 10:55 to go in the game.
Cooney had nine points during the spurt.





Orange 70, Seminoles 57 






-- Box score









"When I'm making shots, it extends the defense and we're able to get some easy ones," Cooney said. "I needed to be aggressive for 40 minutes and get myself in a good rhythm. I was able to do that today early."
Rakeem Christmas registered his fifth double-double of the season with 14 points and 11 rebounds and Michael Gbinije added 11 points and nine rebounds. Christmas also had five blocked shots.
Xavier Rathan-Mayes led Florida State with 14 points and Boris Bojanovsky had 10 points and four blocks.
Syracuse, which plays three of its next four at the Carrier Dome, entered the game hitting just 29 percent from the 3-point line. But the Orange hit 6 of 11 from long range in the first half, led by Cooney's four, and were 10 of 17 for the game.
"I think we're taking the right steps now," Cooney said. "We were struggling earlier, but we found our groove. We've been able to get good things going offensively and defensively. Hopefully, we'll continue."
Florida State was just 2 of 16 from the 3, adding to the team's woes from beyond the arc. The Seminoles entered the game hitting just 27 percent. Junior guard Devon Bookert, the Seminoles best 3-point shooter at 40 percent, was 0-for-3 from the 3-point line in the first half, 0-for-6 for the game, and just 2 of 12 from the field for six points.
"Obviously, they've been very good at playing their 2-3 zone, and I thought our guys were extremely tentative," Hamilton said. "In the second half we executed a lot better, but when you go 2 of 16 from the 3 and 61 percent from the free throw line it's hard to win against a team like Syracuse."
The victory was tempered by an injury to Syracuse freshman forward Chris McCullough, who suffered an injury to his right knee with just under 12 minutes to go in the first half.
McCullough landed awkwardly trying to catch a high pass from Gbinije in transition, could put little pressure on his leg, was helped to the locker room, and never returned. He is to be evaluated Monday.
"We hope for the best for Chris," Cooney said. "He's a big part of what we do."
TIP-INS
Florida State: Sunday's game at the Carrier Dome was the first time Seminoles had played in a domed building since playing at the AlamoDome in the Sweet 16 of the 2011 NCAA Tournament.
Syracuse: Christmas, who entered the game averaging 17.3 points, has scored in double figures in all but one game this season.
STAT LINES
Florida State's troubles continued at the charity stripe. The Seminoles hit 13 of 21 for the game, 62 percent. For the season, they are hitting just 65 percent. ... Rathan-Mayes was 1 of 5 from the 3.
Syracuse's Gbinije continued his hot shooting from beyond the arc. He was 2 of 3 against Florida State and is now 13 of 19 in his last six games.
UP NEXT
Florida State is at Pittsburgh on Wednesday night.
Syracuse is at home Tuesday night against Wake Forest.














Florida State
 \ 
Florida
 \ 
FS Florida Florida State Seminoles








share 0





Tweet 0











0







































BEST OF THE WEB
Powered By






Greatest plays in Super Bowl history


Great players to never play a Super Bowl


Most overpaid MLBers going into 2015


Early look at Super Bowl XLIX storylines














+ SHOW COMMENTS +



Powered by Livefyre







































































































FOXSports.com >

Contact Us |
Press |
Jobs |
Subscribe |
Sitemap



Other FOX Sites >

FOX Sports 1 |
FOX |
FOX News |
21st Century Fox |
FOX Sports Supports



Partners >

Shop |
Tickets


Statistical Information provided by: STATS LLC
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.



Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these
Terms of Use (
What’s New) and
Privacy Policy.


Privacy Policy |
Advertising Choices |
New
Terms of Use
(What's New) |
 [+] Site Feedback |
Opinion Panel















