Florida State Seminoles can't hold off Pittsburgh Panthers in second half, falls on road | FOX Sports
Florida State Seminoles can't hold off Pittsburgh Panthers in second half, falls on road | FOX Sports


  








☰
FOXSPORTS

 

HOME

SPORTS



NFL


MLB


NCAA FB


NASCAR


UFC


Soccer


NBA


NHL


NCAA BK


GOLF


TENNIS


BOXING


MOTOR RACING


HORSE RACING


WORLD CUP


OLYMPICS


OTHER SPORTS




WATCH


FANTASY


MORE





Search



SEARCH



 Search 








VIEW FULL LIST » 








Sign In






Profile & Email Settings
Account Info & Linking
Sign Out
















Florida & Sun Sports

MENU











Home



Headlines


HOME


 TV Listings


BACK




TV Listings


Alternate Channel Information


Team-by-Team Printable Broadcast Schedules







Videos


 Teams


BACK




MLB

Tampa Bay Rays


Miami Marlins


NBA

Orlando Magic


Miami Heat


NHL

Tampa Bay Lightning


Florida Panthers


NFL

Tampa Bay Buccaneers


Miami Dolphins


Jacksonville Jaguars






College Football


Florida Gators



Florida State Seminoles



Miami (FL) Hurricanes


College Basketball


Florida Gators



Florida State Seminoles



Miami (FL) Hurricanes







Outdoors


 Writers


BACK




Andrew Astleford


Christina De Nicola


Hana Ostapchuk


Jameson Olive


Ken Hornack


Michael Jay Welch


Paul Kennedy


Scott Carter


Surya Fernandez







Podcasts


 Fan Rewards

BACK




Heat Fan Rewards


Magic Fan Rewards


Panthers Fan Rewards


Lightning Fan Rewards







 FOX Sports Go


BACK




Miami Heat


Orlando Magic







The Finsiders


Prep Zone


News


Press Releases


Contact Us


About Us


MORE




BACK



















☰


FOXSPORTS
































 

 FOX Sports Florida
 FOX Sports Florida 


 GIRLS 
 VIDEO 
 SOCIAL 












FLORIDA GIRLS









Check out bios, photos, videos and much more of the FS Florida Girls!






FLORIDA VIDEOS















'Inside the Panthers: Top of the Class' preview









Killorn leads Lightning past Canucks









Heat can't keep up with Thunder









2015 NFL Draft Preview









Panthers continue losing streak with loss to Canucks












FLORIDA SOCIAL










+ FOX Sports Florida on Facebook









+ FOX Sports Florida on Twitter









+ FOX Sports Florida on YouTube









+ FOX Sports Florida on Instagram






















































Florida State can't hold off Pittsburgh in second half, falls on road







AP


JAN 14, 2015 11:37p ET 


+




 






JAN 14, 2015 11:37p ET 









share 0





Tweet 0











0
















































Charles LeClaire / USA TODAY Sports


Pittsburgh Panthers guard James Robinson (0) brings the ball up court as Florida State Seminoles guard Devon Bookert (1) defends during the first half.









AP


Share This Story
 


Tweet












Updated JAN 15, 2015 12:31a ET


 
 
 


 













PITTSBURGH (AP) -- Pittsburgh coach Jamie Dixon can tolerate losing. Barely. Dixon can't abide his team getting outworked. After watching the Panthers get crushed on the glass by Clemson on Saturday, Dixon challenged his players to get tougher.
He found an unlikely candidate to pick up the slack: walk-on forward Aron Phillips-Nwankwo. The fifth-year senior scored seven points in 12 energetic minutes off the bench and keyed the decisive run in a 73-64 win over Florida State on Wednesday night.
Phillips-Nwankwo, a neuroscience major on an academic scholarship, began the night having scored all of 15 points during his entire career. He hit two of the three shots he took and added two rebounds and a steal. Just as importantly, he infused the Panthers with a sense of urgency.
"I figured he'd give us energy," Dixon said. "I don't know I could have predicted he would play that well but I knew he would help us. No kid has worked harder, no kid has improved more than he has in five years."
Michael Young scored 16 points to go with 12 rebounds. Four days after Clemson pushed Pitt (12-5, 2-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) around in the lane, the Panthers did the same to the Seminoles.
"Getting outrebounded by 17 in last game was an embarrassment," Young said. "That's an attack on everybody's pride."
Chris Jones added 15 points for Pitt, which held Florida State (9-8, 1-3) to just 32 percent shooting (10 of 31) in the second half.
Freshman Phil Cofer scored a career-high 21 points for Florida State but the Seminoles went nearly nine minutes without a field goal in the second half during a 16-3 burst by the Panthers that broke open a tight game.









"We had enough opportunities to make layups," coach Leonard Hamilton said. "For some reason it seemed the lid was on the basket for layups and they took advantage of every mistake that we made."
Pitt has struggled to find any sort of consistency in the middle. Joseph Uchebo and Derrick Randall have been largely ineffective, forcing Young to play out of position at center and giving the Panthers serious matchup issues.
Dixon gave Phillips-Nwankwo -- who had played five minutes this season -- a shot searching for a jolt. He provided it and then some. With the game tied at 41 early in the second half, Phillips-Nwankwo hit a layup and was fouled. He made the layup and followed it with a dunk that kickstarted Pitt's best stretch of basketball in weeks.
"That was the plan," Phillips-Nwankwo said. "In practice I'm the guy that plays hard with energy, defense and rebound. I've been doing the same thing and a few plays went my way and it was good for us."









The Panthers clamped down on the defensive end, holding the Seminoles in check while Pitt slowly pulled away. Jamel Artis hit a baseline jumper and then a reverse lay-up to push the Panthers in front 57-44. Florida State's Kiel Turpin finally tipped in a miss that ended an 8:50 field-goal drought but the Seminoles never drew closer than seven points the rest of the way.
WHAT'S THE SCORE?
The game was delayed for several minutes with 5:57 left in the first half following a basket by Boris Bojanovsky. The center made a running layup down the lane while getting fouled by Young. Bojanovsky took a free throw with all the Pitt players standing still as the shot clanged off the rim. The referees stood still too, incorrectly signaling that Bojanovsky was due two shots. The officials huddled and then went to the scorer's to watch video to remind them that Bojanovsky had indeed made the field goal.
TIP INS






Box score







Pittsburgh 73, Florida State 64









Florida State: The Seminoles used their massive size advantage to fluster Pitt early. Florida State finished with 7 blocks but just one in the second half.
Pitt: Dixon picked up his 300th career victory since taking over the program in 2003. He is the 19th-fastest coach to reach 300 victories, doing it in 401 games.
"I know it does reflect being at a place for a long time and I'm very thankful," Dixon said. "I've always been thankful for the opportunity. Sixteen years of that, that's pretty good. That's not always the case with college coaches."
UP NEXT
Florida State hosts N.C. State on Saturday.
Pitt hosts Georgia Tech on Saturday.














Florida State
 \ 
Florida
 \ 
FS Florida Florida State Seminoles








share 0





Tweet 0











0







































BEST OF THE WEB
Powered By






Greatest plays in Super Bowl history


Great players to never play a Super Bowl


Most overpaid MLBers going into 2015


Early look at Super Bowl XLIX storylines














+ SHOW COMMENTS +



Powered by Livefyre







































































































FOXSports.com >

Contact Us |
Press |
Jobs |
Subscribe |
Sitemap



Other FOX Sites >

FOX Sports 1 |
FOX |
FOX News |
21st Century Fox |
FOX Sports Supports



Partners >

Shop |
Tickets


Statistical Information provided by: STATS LLC
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.



Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these
Terms of Use (
What’s New) and
Privacy Policy.


Privacy Policy |
Advertising Choices |
New
Terms of Use
(What's New) |
 [+] Site Feedback |
Opinion Panel















