Florida State beats Florida on Gators' own goal in final second | FOX Sports
Florida State beats Florida on Gators' own goal in final second | FOX Sports


  








☰
FOXSPORTS

 

HOME

SPORTS



NFL


MLB


NCAA FB


NASCAR


UFC


Soccer


NBA


NHL


NCAA BK


GOLF


TENNIS


BOXING


MOTOR RACING


HORSE RACING


WORLD CUP


OLYMPICS


OTHER SPORTS




WATCH


FANTASY


MORE





Search



SEARCH



 Search 








VIEW FULL LIST » 








Sign In






Profile & Email Settings
Account Info & Linking
Sign Out

















College
Basketball


MENU











Home



Top Headlines


Home


Scores


Polls


Standings


Schedule


Stats


Power Rankings


Teams


Players


Video


Photos


Bracket


Gear

Tickets

Odds


Big East


Blue Chip


Recruiting


News


NCAA WBK


MORE




BACK



















☰


FOXSPORTS























































































Florida State beats Florida on Gators' own goal in final second







AP


DEC 31, 2014 1:58a ET 


+




 






DEC 31, 2014 1:58a ET 









share 0





Tweet 0











0
















































Phil Sears / USA TODAY Sports


Florida State Seminoles guards Xavier Rathan-Mayes and Robbie Berwick celebrate after teammate Devon Bookert missed a potential game-winning shot but got credit for the winner in one of the most bizarre finishes of the season.









AP


Share This Story
 


Tweet












Updated DEC 31, 2014 2:58p ET


 
 
 


 

TALLAHASSEE, Fla.   —   














 
Florida State guard Montay Brandon didn't believe his lying eyes as the Seminoles scored the game-winning basket against rival Florida on Tuesday night. He literally had to look at the scoreboard to confirm what he saw.
Teammate Devon Bookert had just badly missed a 3-point attempt in a tie game as the clock wound down, but somehow the ball found its way through the net. The ball took an odd bounce off the rim because it was short and Florida forward Jacob Kurtz accidentally tipped in the miss with 0.4 seconds left to give Florida State a 65-63 win. The victory snapped a Gators' five-game win streak in the series dating back to 2008.
The fluke play saved the Seminoles after they gave up an alley-oop from Kasey Hill to Dorian Finney-Smith with eight seconds remaining to tie the game at 63.
"That was crazy," said Brandon, who's never been involved in an ending like that. "I thought he had a rebound. I guess it just slipped out of his hand. I don't know how to explain it, but I was just happy.
"At first I was looking around like, did that happen? Then I saw the scoreboard change and I was like, oh man, we're winning. I started going crazy."
A pair of free throws by Brandon gave the Seminoles a five-point lead with 49 seconds left in the game. The two possessions seemed to be enough, but Hill knocked down a transition layup, was fouled and made the free throw. Then the alley-oop was set up off an offensive rebound.
After the game, Kurtz, a senior walk-on whose rebound initially set up the game-tying play, was the focus on the Gators' postgame comments, but not in a negative way.








"We wouldn't have been in the game at the end if it wasn't for Jake," junior forward Finney-Smith said of the popular and consummate teammate after Kurtz scored four points and also grabbed a team-best five rebounds, including three on the offensive end. "Sometimes the dice roll like that. That play did not determine the game. We did a bunch of other things that cost us the game."
"You don't need to feel that bad," Florida coach Billy Donovan told Kurtz.
Donovan then told the media, "Listen, I've been doing this for a long, long time [and] been doing this for a lot of games -- and I've never seen anything like that in my life," Donovan said. "My heart goes out to [Jake] because he really tried to make the right play."
Brandon and Hill tied for a game-high 17 points while FSU freshman Xavier Rathan-Mayes added 13.
Finney-Smith finished with 14 points and seven rebounds while Michael Frazier added 11.









Florida State used a 14-2 run midway through the second half to take a 49-42 lead with 7:23 remaining. The margin was the largest FSU lead of the game.
The Gators responded with five consecutive made baskets after going scoreless for 4:57. A Hill steal and layup with 3:57 tied the game at 54 apiece.



















PLAY DAILY FANTASY







• FREE entry into $30K fantasy basketball contest!






• DK Playbook: Strategies for Winning Cash Games – Basketball






• FREE $500 1-Day Fantasy Hockey Contest!






• DK Playbook: Strategies for Winning Cash Games – Hockey











"That was probably the first time I've seen a game end like that," Hill said. "That was not Jacob Kurtz's fault at all. That was everybody's fault. We made some mental errors and that's what killed us. It wasn't Jake's fault at all."
Both teams entered the contest with serious offensive woes. The Seminoles ranked No. 111 in the country by averaging 71.3 points per game as the Gators were No. 185 with 68.0 points each night out. Those numbers held true in the first half as the teams combined for 19 field goals and 24 turnovers.
"I didn't think it was a very well-played game by both teams," Florida coach Billy Donovan said. "Both teams played and competed hard, but it wasn't a very clean game. ... There was a lot of mental lapses by both teams.
"We lost on a fluke play, but even if that play didn't happen, what's to say they still wouldn't have won that game in overtime. You don't know what would have happened."
TIP-INS
Florida: The Gators didn't score their first field goal that didn't come off a goaltending call until more than seven minutes had elapsed. Six of their first 15 points came off goaltending calls. Florida shot 32.3 percent in the first half, but shot 53.3 percent from the floor in the second half.
Florida State: The Seminoles had 12 turnovers in the first half, but just three in the second half. They also increased their shooting percentage from 36.0 percent in the first half to 42.9 percent in the second half.
QUOTABLE
"It's one of those shots that went in that you shake your head about," Florida State coach Leonard Hamilton said. "I've been on the other end of that so many times that I'll take that and be very happy."














Devon Bookert
 \ 
Dorian Finney-Smith
 \ 
Montay Brandon
 \ 
Florida State
 \ 
Florida
 \ 
Home
 \ 
Jacob Kurtz








share 0





Tweet 0











0







































BEST OF THE WEB
Powered By






Greatest plays in Super Bowl history


Great players to never play a Super Bowl


Most overpaid MLBers going into 2015


Early look at Super Bowl XLIX storylines














+ SHOW COMMENTS +



Powered by Livefyre







































































































FOXSports.com >

Contact Us |
Press |
Jobs |
Subscribe |
Sitemap



Other FOX Sites >

FOX Sports 1 |
FOX |
FOX News |
21st Century Fox |
FOX Sports Supports



Partners >

Shop |
Tickets


Statistical Information provided by: STATS LLC
©2015 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved.



Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these
Terms of Use (
What’s New) and
Privacy Policy.


Privacy Policy |
Advertising Choices |
New
Terms of Use
(What's New) |
 [+] Site Feedback |
Opinion Panel















