So Who Is Going To Be Florida State’s Starting Quarterback In 2015? | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.
So Who Is Going To Be Florida State’s Starting Quarterback In 2015? | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.















ACC

Boston College
Clemson
Duke
Florida State
Georgia Tech
Louisville
Miami (FL)
NC State
North Carolina
Notre Dame
Pittsburgh
Syracuse
Virginia
Virginia Tech
Wake Forest


Big 12

Baylor
Iowa State
Kansas
Kansas State
Oklahoma
Oklahoma State
TCU
Texas
Texas Tech
West Virginia


Big Ten

Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Maryland
Michigan
Michigan State
Minnesota
Nebraska
Northwestern
Ohio State
Penn State
Purdue
Rutgers
Wisconsin


PAC-12

Arizona
Arizona State
California
Colorado
Oregon
Oregon State
Stanford
UCLA
USC
Utah
Washington
Washington State


SEC

Alabama
Arkansas
Auburn
Florida
Georgia
Kentucky
LSU
Mississippi
Mississippi State
Missouri
South Carolina
Tennessee
Texas A&M
Vanderbilt


Extra Credit
What Is CS?















 







    Wednesday, Jan 7, 2015 1:07 pm




 


 





So Who Is Going To Be Florida State’s Starting Quarterback In 2015?
Matt Lombardi

Twitter/Winston
Wednesday morning, Jameis Winston’s father communicated to ESPN that his son would be leaving the Seminoles to enter the upcoming NFL Draft. In the few hours since, there’s certainly been enough debate regarding where Winston will likely be taken. There hasn’t been much talk, however, about how Florida State will fare moving forward. 
Winston started all but one game over the past two seasons for the Seminoles, and considering that former backup Jacob Coker transferred to Alabama ahead of last season, FSU doesn’t boast much experience at the position heading into next year. Here are the Seminoles’ options:
Sean Maguire – Redshirt Junior
seminoles.com
Maguire, who will be a redshirt junior by next fall, backed up Winston this year and started the team’s game against Clemson when the former Heisman Trophy winner got suspended. Maguire’s performance in that game (21-of-39 for 304 yards, one touchdown, two interceptions) was admirable, especially considering it was against one of the best defenses in the nation. That being said, Maguire, considered a pro-style quarterback, was a three-star recruit, and head coach Jimbo Fisher may not see him as the future of the program. He may be favored to be the starter at the beginning of next season, but there’s no guarantee that it’s a position he keeps. FSU has a number of highly routed players waiting in the wings.
J.J. Cosentino – Redshirt Freshman
seminoles.com
Cosentino didn’t play a snap in 2014, so he was able to redshirt and not burn a year of eligibility. That could pay huge dividends for the program, if he turns out to be as talented as scouts think. Cosentino, a four-star pro-style quarterback from Pittsburgh, has an incredible arm, as evidenced by the viral video that was circulating earlier this year. Cosentino is expected to compete with Maguire for the starting job this spring. He’s probably the player with more upside, but that doesn’t mean he’ll win the competition.
De’Andre Johnson – Freshman
Twitter
Florida State has three four-star quarterbacks in the class of 2015. Johnson, according to Rivals, is the only one of them who has actually signed a letter of intent. He’s a dual-threat quarterback who chose the Seminoles over Alabama, Clemson, Florida, Georgia, LSU and a number of other top programs. He was a huge get for the school. That being said, unless injuries become an issue in Tallahassee, it’s very to easy to see FSU redshirting him in 2015. 
Deondre Francois – Freshman (Not Signed)
Twitter
Francois is the highest-rated of the three quarterbacks, and like Johnson, chose FSU over dozens of other top college football programs. Francois is listed at 6-foot, so there are some analysts who are concerned with his height. But he reportedly has an absolute cannon for an arm. He’s also a better fit for a pro-style offense, though a few of the recruiting agencies list him as a dual-threat quarterback. Don’t be surprised if he redshirts too.
Kai Locksley – Freshman (Not Signed) 
Twitter
Locksley chose Florida State over Maryland, where his father is the offensive coordinator. His commitment was a surprise to some. But he’s taking an official visit to Texas later this month, so there isn’t even a guarantee that he’ll be in Tallahassee next year. Given the number of highly-rated quarterbacks on the 2015 roster, there are rumors that FSU may try to turn him into a wide receiver. He may be trying to avoid that kind of situation by playing elsewhere.
Braxton Miller – Potential Transfer 
ohiostatebuckeyes
Ohio State senior quarterback Braxton Miller is the wild card. Miller, who injured his shoulder ahead of the 2014 season, saw both of his backups – J.T. Barrett and Cardale Jones – shine in his absence. With no guarantee of winning his starting job back, he’s reportedly been shopping his services. He can play immediately via the graduate transfer rule. Would he be handed the starting role? It’s certainly possible, given the lack of experience on the roster. But Fisher would have to realize that he’d be a one-year rental and make the decision accordingly.





Read More At Bleacher Report 

'Sesame Street' Shades Patriots, Airs Episode Where 'Inflate' Is Word of the DayDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:36 pm
Blake Griffin Pushes Trainer's Head Near Groin, Leaves Sportscasters StrandedDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:02 pm
Celtics' Evan Turner Hits Game-Winning 3-Pointer vs. Trail BlazersTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 5:33 am
Clippers' DeAndre Jordan Throws Down Powerful Dunk Over Nets' Brook LopezTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 4:43 am
Alabama and Auburn Women's Basketball Players Throw Punches During SEC ClashTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:40 am


ZergNet











 









Matt Lombardi
Matt is a Co-Founder at College Spun. He can be reached at matt@collegespun.com.










In Case You Missed It...
• 5-Star QB Remains Committed To A&M
• Barber: "Glad I Kept My Cool Tonight"
• Photo: Gonzaga Fans Want Kentucky
• Video: Ole Miss O-Line Hype Video
• Miami Fan Shoved Cat Barber
• Bobby Portis' Tip-In Buzzer-Beater
• Michael Qualls' Fast Break Dunk
• Arkansas' Foul Sends Game To OT
• Sims Talks Waffle House With Malzahn
• Qualls' Thunderous Putback Slam









10 Most Delusional Fan Bases In College Sports








The 12 Most Viral CFB Stories Of 2014
The 10 Most Disappointing Teams Of 2014
The 10 Most-Criticized Fan Bases
Top 10 College Football Tailgating Scenes
Kim DeJesus = Hottest Wiffle Ball Player Ever




Avatars by Sterling Adventures
 

College Spun Privacy Policy  |  
Contact  |  
About  |  
Website by Blue Rattle






1
















