Jimbo Fisher Responds To Dave Doeren’s Accusation Of FSU Players Faking Injuries Against N.C. State | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.
Jimbo Fisher Responds To Dave Doeren’s Accusation Of FSU Players Faking Injuries Against N.C. State | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.















ACC

Boston College
Clemson
Duke
Florida State
Georgia Tech
Louisville
Miami (FL)
NC State
North Carolina
Notre Dame
Pittsburgh
Syracuse
Virginia
Virginia Tech
Wake Forest


Big 12

Baylor
Iowa State
Kansas
Kansas State
Oklahoma
Oklahoma State
TCU
Texas
Texas Tech
West Virginia


Big Ten

Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Maryland
Michigan
Michigan State
Minnesota
Nebraska
Northwestern
Ohio State
Penn State
Purdue
Rutgers
Wisconsin


PAC-12

Arizona
Arizona State
California
Colorado
Oregon
Oregon State
Stanford
UCLA
USC
Utah
Washington
Washington State


SEC

Alabama
Arkansas
Auburn
Florida
Georgia
Kentucky
LSU
Mississippi
Mississippi State
Missouri
South Carolina
Tennessee
Texas A&M
Vanderbilt


Extra Credit
What Is CS?















 







    Monday, Sep 29, 2014 1:45 pm




 


 





Jimbo Fisher Responds To Dave Doeren’s Accusation Of FSU Players Faking Injuries Against N.C. State
Dan Lyons

For the better part of three quarters, it looked like N.C. State, a team that failed to notch an ACC win a year ago, may upset defending national champion Florida State. The Wolfpack’s up-tempo offense caused problems for the Seminoles, and after the game, N.C. State head coach Dave Doeren said that he believed that Florida State’s defense faked injuries during the game to slow down the pace.

“The tempo we had (in the first quarter) was working until all the crazy fall down things were going on and the clock kept stopping,” Doeren said. “You know the refs can’t do anything about that, but it’s horrible the way the tempo gets slow downed by these injuries. We went fast in the first-quarter, I guess there were no fake injuries.”

Florida State head coach Jimbo Fisher caught wind of Doeren’s quote, and he was not happy when he addressed the media this afternoon.

Jimbo Fisher on NC State coach Dave Doeren accusing FSU of faking injuries: “I accuse him of not knowing what he’s talking about.”
— Natalie Pierre (@Natalie_Pierre) September 29, 2014

This certainly isn’t the first time a team has been accused of faking injuries to combat a fast-paced offense, but it is always jarring to hear it coming from an opposing coach. What do you think, fans? Does Doeren have a point, or is this just sour grapes from the coach of the losing team?





Read More At Bleacher Report 

Blake Griffin Pushes Trainer's Head Near Groin, Leaves Sportscasters StrandedDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:02 pm
Celtics' Evan Turner Hits Game-Winning 3-Pointer vs. Trail BlazersTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 5:33 am
Clippers' DeAndre Jordan Throws Down Powerful Dunk Over Nets' Brook LopezTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 4:43 am
Alabama and Auburn Women's Basketball Players Throw Punches During SEC ClashTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:40 am
Bucks' Ersan Ilyasova Emphatically Rejects Jazz's Gordon Hayward at RimTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 2:25 am


ZergNet











 









Dan Lyons
Dan is a writer for College Spun. He is a 2012 Syracuse alumnus living in New York, NY.  You can reach him at dan@collegespun.com or on Twitter @Dan_Lyons76.










In Case You Missed It...
• 5-Star QB Remains Committed To A&M
• Barber: "Glad I Kept My Cool Tonight"
• Photo: Gonzaga Fans Want Kentucky
• Video: Ole Miss O-Line Hype Video
• Miami Fan Shoved Cat Barber
• Bobby Portis' Tip-In Buzzer-Beater
• Michael Qualls' Fast Break Dunk
• Arkansas' Foul Sends Game To OT
• Sims Talks Waffle House With Malzahn
• Qualls' Thunderous Putback Slam









10 Most Delusional Fan Bases In College Sports








The 12 Most Viral CFB Stories Of 2014
The 10 Most Disappointing Teams Of 2014
The 10 Most-Criticized Fan Bases
Top 10 College Football Tailgating Scenes
Kim DeJesus = Hottest Wiffle Ball Player Ever




Avatars by Sterling Adventures
 

College Spun Privacy Policy  |  
Contact  |  
About  |  
Website by Blue Rattle






If You Like College Spun's Content, Help It Grow!


     Go Noles! Follow College Spun's coverage of Florida State!
     




Follow @CollegeSpun
























