Florida State QB Jameis Winston Explains Why He Shoved An Official On Saturday | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.
Florida State QB Jameis Winston Explains Why He Shoved An Official On Saturday | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.















ACC

Boston College
Clemson
Duke
Florida State
Georgia Tech
Louisville
Miami (FL)
NC State
North Carolina
Notre Dame
Pittsburgh
Syracuse
Virginia
Virginia Tech
Wake Forest


Big 12

Baylor
Iowa State
Kansas
Kansas State
Oklahoma
Oklahoma State
TCU
Texas
Texas Tech
West Virginia


Big Ten

Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Maryland
Michigan
Michigan State
Minnesota
Nebraska
Northwestern
Ohio State
Penn State
Purdue
Rutgers
Wisconsin


PAC-12

Arizona
Arizona State
California
Colorado
Oregon
Oregon State
Stanford
UCLA
USC
Utah
Washington
Washington State


SEC

Alabama
Arkansas
Auburn
Florida
Georgia
Kentucky
LSU
Mississippi
Mississippi State
Missouri
South Carolina
Tennessee
Texas A&M
Vanderbilt


Extra Credit
What Is CS?















 







    Sunday, Nov 23, 2014 4:50 pm




 


 





Florida State QB Jameis Winston Explains Why He Shoved An Official On Saturday
Bill DiFilippo

Should Jameis have been ejected?
Jameis Winston made headlines on Saturday for shoving an official during the third quarter of Florida State’s dramatic 20-17 win over Boston College. The official was standing in between Winston and center Cameron Erving, and in an attempt to get under center, the signal caller pushed the referee out of his way.
Today, Winston explained what happened with the official, saying that he was just trying to go up-tempo.

“He was just holding me because he said we had a substitution,” Winston said of the official. “It was actually a fast-tempo play, so I was trying to get up under there and let it ride.”

FSU coach Jimbo Fisher backed up his quarterback’s claim, saying that the Seminoles called for an up-tempo play, and that Winston was just trying to execute.

“I don’t think [Winston] realized it. He was caught up in the excitement of the moment,” Fisher said. “Hey, you get emotional. He didn’t realize. He thought he could snap the ball. … He knew that was his job — get out there and set and snap the ball.”

Officials standing over the ball and allowing the defense to make a substitution after the offense makes a substitution is a pretty common occurrence, so it’s a bit unusual that any quarterback would act like this. While Fox’s Mike Pereira said that Winston should have been ejected, it’s good to see that this was just a simple misunderstanding and he wasn’t acting maliciously. 





Read More At Bleacher Report 

'Sesame Street' Shades Patriots, Airs Episode Where 'Inflate' Is Word of the DayDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:36 pm
Blake Griffin Pushes Trainer's Head Near Groin, Leaves Sportscasters StrandedDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:02 pm
Celtics' Evan Turner Hits Game-Winning 3-Pointer vs. Trail BlazersTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 5:33 am
Clippers' DeAndre Jordan Throws Down Powerful Dunk Over Nets' Brook LopezTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 4:43 am
Alabama and Auburn Women's Basketball Players Throw Punches During SEC ClashTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:40 am


ZergNet











 









Bill DiFilippo
Penn State graduate. Huge basketball, football and soccer fan. Enjoys rap, indie pop and anything by a 90s boy band. Supporter of any and all court stormings. Follow me on twitter @bflip33, or email me at bill@collegespun.com










In Case You Missed It...
• 5-Star QB Remains Committed To A&M
• Barber: "Glad I Kept My Cool Tonight"
• Photo: Gonzaga Fans Want Kentucky
• Video: Ole Miss O-Line Hype Video
• Miami Fan Shoved Cat Barber
• Bobby Portis' Tip-In Buzzer-Beater
• Michael Qualls' Fast Break Dunk
• Arkansas' Foul Sends Game To OT
• Sims Talks Waffle House With Malzahn
• Qualls' Thunderous Putback Slam









10 Most Delusional Fan Bases In College Sports








The 12 Most Viral CFB Stories Of 2014
The 10 Most Disappointing Teams Of 2014
The 10 Most-Criticized Fan Bases
Top 10 College Football Tailgating Scenes
Kim DeJesus = Hottest Wiffle Ball Player Ever




Avatars by Sterling Adventures
 

College Spun Privacy Policy  |  
Contact  |  
About  |  
Website by Blue Rattle






If You Like College Spun's Content, Help It Grow!


     Go Noles! Follow College Spun's coverage of Florida State!
     




Follow @CollegeSpun
























