The Other Side of the Gun: A Lesson in Love | The BOLD & The FABULOUS

The Other Side of the Gun: A Lesson in Love | The BOLD & The FABULOUS







The BOLD & The FABULOUS


Six Voices. 1-Spirit. God is our Author and Finisher.





Skip to content
HomeAboutPhoto Gallery







← Version 3.3
Only If You Mean It →


The Other Side of the Gun: A Lesson in Love

Posted on November 20, 2014 by boldandfab  

I haven’t written the last two weeks due to travel.  But this Thursday, I could really use a “get out of jail” card.  Yet, I feel obligated to share the current conflict I am experiencing in regards to an unexpected loss.  Today, many of us heard about the tragic shooting on the campus of Florida State University, where three students were injured and the gunman was killed.  The gunman’s name was Myron May.  That gunman was my frat brother.  That gunman was my colleague.  That gunman was my friend.
I first met Myron while serving on the board of the National Black Law Students Association, where he was by far one of the kindest, open-hearted persons I had met in my life.  What’s funny about kind people is that sometimes, they are “unmemorable,” but not Myron.  Even though those of us privileged to serve our legal student membership were balancing torts assignments while indulging in wild parties, scandals (way juicier than what’s on tv), and high-end socials, Myron was always kinda even-keeled.  His presence really just made me feel one way, all the time. Happy.
Which is why I had the complete opposite reaction while crossing the street in a busy Brooklyn intersection earlier today.  My buddy Nashaun sent me a text…asked me if I heard about Myron.  I was confused, and told him that I hadn’t.  Insert awkward pause.  He then apologized for what he was about to share with me.  And as I read the article about the tragedy, I checked for two things: 1) the state of the victims (and thank God, they are all alive); and 2) the misspelling of Myron’s name–because I was CERTAIN they had the wrong gunman.  No misspelling.  No mistake.
As an anti-gun, pro-black-man, urban advocate, “eff the police” chanter, and whatever blah-blah-blah label I might check while filling out an FBI application, I realized that my heart did have room to care for those who have committed the most unthinkable actions–and even actions I personally find unforgivable.  Sure, I have always felt a spiritual obligation to “forgive others” and always believed that every human has a story worth telling.  I also have been known to yell about our negligent attention on issues of mental illness–and even the impact that societal pressures can have on our otherwise “normal” state.  But in all honesty, even those outcries are done with resistance and reluctance–and often for fear that if I ever go crazy (because we are all just one prayer away) that I would be given the same amount of grace from people that know me.  But what about today?  Why was I nervous that I unapologetically cried for Myron, and scrambled to figure out how he felt, and what was on his mind, before he started shooting?
That’s when you call mommy.
After speaking with my mom, she assured me that I need not need a reason to love another who has done a horrible act.  She said, “We do not always know why people “act.” An action does not always warrant one to be labeled.  Thank God that God alone knows the heart of a man.  Myron may not have had the intention to kill.  I just wish he knew that regardless of what his circumstances were, he had every intention to live. Know that a relationship with God is built for moments like this, and I wish he knew he was strong enough to get through whatever, with God’s help.  But that does not mean God does not care for him, and that you shouldn’t either. Care for your friend.”
And that’s what I’m going to do.  Myron, I am so sorry that whatever pain you experienced, whatever your final thought was, that an outlet was not there for you right when you needed it.  I know that judgment comes, and without excusing your actions, I know that even remotely you are devastated by the pain you caused others, innocent in this tragedy.  You have always been a man of accountability and fairness, and if injured, you know we would all be in that hospital room hugging you and cursing you at the same time.  But with love, so many of us just want you to know that while we condemn your actions, we do not condemn the man.  And thank you for opening all of our lives today and challenging us–reminding us that on the other side of a gun, there is a person with a family that will always love and cherish them. No matter what.
Whatever troubled you, Myron, rest in peace.
 
 
Share the Boldness!EmailFacebookTwitterPrintLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 


 

About boldandfab
							Where Being A Witness Meets Chic Sophistication! Where Every Word Has Profound Meaning. It's all us...ALL REAL! B & F.							

									View all posts by boldandfab → 




												This entry was posted in Thursdays with Ify and tagged empathy, fsu, lawyer, may, myron, shooting. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Version 3.3
Only If You Mean It →


8 Responses to The Other Side of the Gun: A Lesson in Love




 Sheri Wait For-it Salyers says: 

				November 20, 2014 at 8:41 pm 
He was a near and dear childhood friend and one of a handful that would make an effort to stay in touch with me over the years. I share many of the same thoughts and questions as you. I’m glad to have read this…. Sorry for your loss as it is a sad day for many of us….


Reply 





 Nicole says: 

				November 20, 2014 at 9:19 pm 
Lovely! So well written! So many people loved Myron and thought the world of him! Thank you!!! ❤️


Reply 





 Wendi says: 

				November 21, 2014 at 12:20 pm 
Thanks you for your words


Reply 





 J. Indigo Saunders says: 

				November 21, 2014 at 12:30 pm 
Wow yo. This is so sad. Sorry sis.


Reply 





 cd says: 

				November 21, 2014 at 3:18 pm 
Wow. I don’t know you brother, but I am sorry about your friend, and people that were hurt. I also wanted to add that this letter is the most well written letter that I have ever read. I am Truly amazed by your words.


Reply 







 JRAgency says: 

				November 21, 2014 at 3:05 pm 
Over the last 24 hours, I’ve been speechless. Even as a writer by trade, I’ve yet been able to put into words my true thoughts and feelings about this tragic situation and about Myron! YOU did that for me today! Thanks for sharing your thoughts and feelings so that I can explain what has been unexplainable! This has truly made my day! THANK YOU!


Reply 





 Linda English says: 

				November 21, 2014 at 5:43 pm 
I admire you for sharing your feelings in the way you did while grieving the lost of your friend/frat. I  totally agree with everything you said. We never always know what a person is going through no matter how close our friendship may be. May he rest in peace now and may God use you to tell Myron tragedy to help others in some way or another.


Reply 





 Darrel & Devon Hays says: 

				November 23, 2014 at 9:48 am 
Simply Beautiful! RIP Myron


Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

You Lookin’ to be HAPPY, or Fixin’ to be GREAT?


Won’t He Do It!!!!!!!!!!


Walking Papers


The Edge of the Mountaintop: Reflection on King’s Final Speech


To Serve Or Swerve?!


Archives 
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010

Categories 
April Mondays

Celine Saturdays

Fridays with Monisha

Mondays with Claire

Saturdays with April

Sunday Brunch

Thursdays with Ify

Tuesdays with Bianca

Uncategorized

Wednesdays with iNDIGO


Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com 
 



B&F on FACEBOOK!

BECOME A FAN ON FACEBOOK


Blogroll

Themes
WordPress Blog
Plugins
WordPress Planet
Suggest Ideas
Support Forum
Documentation









					The BOLD & The FABULOUS				


The Twenty Ten Theme.				Blog at WordPress.com.
			































Follow

Follow “The BOLD & The FABULOUS”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 195 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com





Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





%d bloggers like this:





 




