Florida State Football: How Clemson Has Become FSU's Biggest ACC Rival | Bleacher Report
Florida State Football: How Clemson Has Become FSU's Biggest ACC Rival | Bleacher Report





























Login
Sign Up






      Bleacher Report
      
    





Home
NFL
CFB
MLB
NBA
Soccer
NHL
CBB
UFC
WWE
Golf
Nascar
More
My Teams
Video
Lists
Trending





Edit Favorites













College Football


ACC


Florida State


Home



Schedules


Team Stream


Archives


Top Writers


Tickets


Newsletter


Videos

Mobile site











							Florida State
							Seminoles











Want more real-time Florida State Football news?
Visit Team Stream on BleacherReport.com!
×

















Florida State Football: How Clemson Has Become FSU's Biggest ACC Rival


                By 
Bob  Ferrante
, Contributor

Sep 19, 2014






Share






Tweet












Next ARTICLE »

Use your ← → (arrow) keys to browse more stories







USA TODAY Sports 
Rashad Greene (80) and FSU have won the last two games against Clemson.





4.5K
Reads


5
Comments



Florida State has had some significant ACC rivalries through the years. But even in the last 10 years, since Miami joined the conference, FSU's biggest league rival has been Clemson.
"It's FSU's biggest ACC rivalry," former Clemson coach and current Raycom analyst Tommy Bowden said. "And probably the most significant rivalry in the conference."
An argument can be made that FSU-Miami has been the most dramatic through the decades, especially considering the Seminoles' missed kicks in the 1990s and 2000s. But the FSU-Miami series has become one-sided. Jimbo Fisher is 4-0 against the Hurricanes since he took over as FSU's head coach in 2010. And three of the four wins have been by 13 or more points. 
FSU-Clemson has taken top billing on the Seminoles schedule for a few reasons. The biggest one is that they are both Atlantic Division teams, and the winner gets a leg up on the other in the race to win the division (while also grabbing the first tiebreaker, head-to-head result, if they each finish the ACC schedule with the same conference record).
Either FSU or Clemson has represented the Atlantic Division in the ACC Championship Game each year since 2009. And in each of the past five seasons, the team that wins the FSU-Clemson game has claimed the division title.


Is Clemson the biggest ACC rival for FSU?




Yes



No



As important as Miami

Submit Vote
vote to see results








Is Clemson the biggest ACC rival for FSU?

Yes

80.0%




No

9.4%




As important as Miami

10.6%



Total votes: 745




That's how important Saturday's FSU-Clemson game is to both teams. The Seminoles won the last two ACC titles, and the path to the championship included a 49-37 win over Clemson in Tallahassee in 2012 and a 51-14 thrashing at Clemson last year.
While Fisher is 3-1 against Clemson as head coach, the Tigers have had success in the last decade against FSU. Clemson claimed victories over FSU from 2005-07 and won games at Death Valley in 2009 and 2011.
"Clemson is a great program with great tradition," Fisher said. "They're ranked highly. And when you get into your conference, those teams are very naturally going to become rivals."
Rivals also bring out the best in each other. Even though FSU routed Clemson in the Top Five showdown last year, it was a game in which the Seminoles realized just how good they were—and how far they could go. That win put FSU at 6-0, en route to a 14-0 season and a national title.
"To come out and perform in a hostile environment like that against a big-time opponent, it gave us good confidence to know that we could go on the road and we could play with the best teams in the nation," Fisher said.
FSU and Clemson have also waged a number of head-to-head recruiting battles through the years. Chris Nee, a recruiting analyst for 247Sports, said Clemson coaches are very active in the Sunshine State. Recent prep prospects that have left the state and signed with Clemson include 5-star defensive back Mackensie Alexander of Immokalee, Florida, linebacker Tony Steward of St. Augustine and 4-star defensive end Tavaris Barnes of Jacksonville.
"Assistant coach Jeff Scott leads the charge for them, but both coordinators (Chad Morris on offense and Brent Venables on defense) for the Tigers also make Florida a regular stop as well as other members of their staff," Nee said. "The Tigers have had success in the Sunshine State and won some great battles head-to-head with Florida State." 
On the flip side, FSU has found success in the Carolinas and has gone head-to-head with Clemson for prospects in Georgia. In 2014, FSU landed 4-star defensive end Lorenzo Featherston of Greensboro, N.C., who chose the Seminoles over Clemson, Florida, Miami and Auburn. And in 2012, 4-star linebacker Ukeme Eligwe of Stone Mountain, Georgia, signed with FSU.
"It ramps up the personal animosity," Bowden said. "A lot of those guys were rivals in high school and that carries over to college. And it adds to the buildup." 
Bob Ferrante is the Florida State Lead Writer for Bleacher Report, all quotes obtained firsthand unless otherwise noted. Follow Bob on Twitter. All recruiting information is courtesy of 247Sports.








Share






Tweet















5
Comments








DOWNLOAD FREE APP


        More Florida State From 








Way-Too-Early CFB Playoff Predictions







Campbell Will Play Kelvin Benjamin Role at FSU






FSU Shouldn't Panic About Losing Jameis






The Many Ways to Look at Jameis' Legacy






Jameis Made Right Call Entering Draft







Even Without Jameis, FSU Will Be Back in 2015






FSU Wise to Extend Jimbo Before NFL Calls






Teams with Most to Lose Before Signing Day






Projecting 2015 Freshman All-American Team






Odds Are Stacked Against a Buckeyes Repeat






Best Non-Conference Clashes of 2015 






CFB Recruiting 200: Top 13 Outside Linebackers 





Load More Stories







Follow Florida State Football from B/R on Facebook


Follow Florida State Football from B/R on Facebook and get the latest updates straight to your newsfeed!







				Florida State Team StreamTM







Report: FSU Replaces Sunseri with Lawing 
from CollegeFootballTalk.com










CFB Top 25 Post-NFL Draft Announcements
from Bleacher Report






Report: FSU Replaces Sunseri with Lawing 
from CollegeFootballTalk.com






FSU-Bound LB at Center of Wrongful Death Suit
from Tallahassee.com






CFB Recruiting 200: Top 12 Safeties
from Bleacher Report






Ranking Every CFB Conference by Their HCs
from Bleacher Report






Every Power 5 Team's Offseason Nightmare
from Bleacher Report




Jump to the Bleacher Report homepage






« Previous
Next »




Out of Bounds






You're currently logged into Facebook

Do you want to share your Bleacher Report activity on Facebook?









Florida State Newsletter




We'd like to send you the most entertaining Florida State Football articles, videos, and podcasts from around the web.





Subscribe Now


We will never share your email address



Thanks for signing up.
Subscribe to More Teams
















Sign up for newsletters

Choose Teams


Get the app

Real-time news for your favorite teams, right on your mobile device.
Download Now




Follow B/R


Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
Google+



Launch a career

B/R's Writer Program and Advanced Program in Sports Media can give you the edge you need to get ahead.
Apply Now



Popular Topics


2015 NFL Mock Draft
NFL Power Rankings
NBA Power Rankings
2015 NBA Mock Draft
Super Bowl



Turner

				Copyright © 2015 Bleacher Report, Inc. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
				BleacherReport.com is part of Bleacher Report - Turner Sports Network, part of the Turner Sports and Entertainment Network.
				Certain photos copyright © 2015 by Getty Images.
				Any commercial use or distribution without the express written consent of Getty Images is strictly prohibited.
			





About
Blog
Contact Us
Careers
Community Guidelines
Privacy
Terms of Use









































































