Report: Florida State To Change Color On Helmets, Jersey Numbers | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.
Report: Florida State To Change Color On Helmets, Jersey Numbers | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.















ACC

Boston College
Clemson
Duke
Florida State
Georgia Tech
Louisville
Miami (FL)
NC State
North Carolina
Notre Dame
Pittsburgh
Syracuse
Virginia
Virginia Tech
Wake Forest


Big 12

Baylor
Iowa State
Kansas
Kansas State
Oklahoma
Oklahoma State
TCU
Texas
Texas Tech
West Virginia


Big Ten

Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Maryland
Michigan
Michigan State
Minnesota
Nebraska
Northwestern
Ohio State
Penn State
Purdue
Rutgers
Wisconsin


PAC-12

Arizona
Arizona State
California
Colorado
Oregon
Oregon State
Stanford
UCLA
USC
Utah
Washington
Washington State


SEC

Alabama
Arkansas
Auburn
Florida
Georgia
Kentucky
LSU
Mississippi
Mississippi State
Missouri
South Carolina
Tennessee
Texas A&M
Vanderbilt


Extra Credit
What Is CS?















 







    Saturday, Sep 6, 2014 11:31 am




 


 





Report: Florida State To Change Color On Helmets, Jersey Numbers
Matt Lombardi

There have been mixed reviews from Florida State fans when it comes to both the school’s new logo and its new football uniforms. Saturday, we learned that the Seminoles will be addressing at least a few of most-criticized aspects of the new look. According to a report by ESPN Radio’s Jeff Cameron, the university will be changing the color of the helmets back to traditional gold (the new version was a bit mustard-y) and the color of the jersey numbers to garnet. They’re also addressing the fact that the face masks looked a bit purple on television.
Everything else will reportedly stay the same.

It’s a process but FSU will return the helmet color to traditional gold & are fixing the face mask issue. No more purple. New spear stays..
— Jeff Cameron (@JCameronShow) September 6, 2014


The gold numbers will be removed before seasons end and switched out for garnet.
— Jeff Cameron (@JCameronShow) September 6, 2014


The new logo and Seminole symbols will stay but again helmets and numbers to be fixed. Helmets sooner than the numbers.
— Jeff Cameron (@JCameronShow) September 6, 2014


Being asked a bunch about this so again… New logo stays, spear stays, symbols on collars and shoulders, stay.
— Jeff Cameron (@JCameronShow) September 6, 2014

Cameron also reports that the helmets will be fixed by the Clemson game, which is set for September 20.

Just a point of clarification. They can’t change helmets in time for today’s game but will happen soon.
— Jeff Cameron (@JCameronShow) September 6, 2014


I’m hearing old helmets back in time for match up w/ Clemson, bye week is the time they needed.
— Jeff Cameron (@JCameronShow) September 6, 2014

Here’s a shot of Jameis Winston wearing the new uniforms – this does not include the new changes.

pic.twitter.com/w9mqXx2YrW
— Jameis Winston (@Jaboowins) April 12, 2014

FSU fans – are these changes a step in the right direction? Or is anything short of changing the new logo not enough?





Read More At Bleacher Report 

'Sesame Street' Shades Patriots, Airs Episode Where 'Inflate' Is Word of the DayDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:36 pm
Blake Griffin Pushes Trainer's Head Near Groin, Leaves Sportscasters StrandedDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:02 pm
Celtics' Evan Turner Hits Game-Winning 3-Pointer vs. Trail BlazersTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 5:33 am
Clippers' DeAndre Jordan Throws Down Powerful Dunk Over Nets' Brook LopezTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 4:43 am
Alabama and Auburn Women's Basketball Players Throw Punches During SEC ClashTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:40 am


ZergNet











 









Matt Lombardi
Matt is a Co-Founder at College Spun. He can be reached at matt@collegespun.com.










In Case You Missed It...
• 5-Star QB Remains Committed To A&M
• Barber: "Glad I Kept My Cool Tonight"
• Photo: Gonzaga Fans Want Kentucky
• Video: Ole Miss O-Line Hype Video
• Miami Fan Shoved Cat Barber
• Bobby Portis' Tip-In Buzzer-Beater
• Michael Qualls' Fast Break Dunk
• Arkansas' Foul Sends Game To OT
• Sims Talks Waffle House With Malzahn
• Qualls' Thunderous Putback Slam









10 Most Delusional Fan Bases In College Sports








The 12 Most Viral CFB Stories Of 2014
The 10 Most Disappointing Teams Of 2014
The 10 Most-Criticized Fan Bases
Top 10 College Football Tailgating Scenes
Kim DeJesus = Hottest Wiffle Ball Player Ever




Avatars by Sterling Adventures
 

College Spun Privacy Policy  |  
Contact  |  
About  |  
Website by Blue Rattle






1
















