Update: Florida State Releases A Video Of Bobby Bowden Saying What People Should Do If His Statue At FSU Comes To Life | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.
Update: Florida State Releases A Video Of Bobby Bowden Saying What People Should Do If His Statue At FSU Comes To Life | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.















ACC

Boston College
Clemson
Duke
Florida State
Georgia Tech
Louisville
Miami (FL)
NC State
North Carolina
Notre Dame
Pittsburgh
Syracuse
Virginia
Virginia Tech
Wake Forest


Big 12

Baylor
Iowa State
Kansas
Kansas State
Oklahoma
Oklahoma State
TCU
Texas
Texas Tech
West Virginia


Big Ten

Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Maryland
Michigan
Michigan State
Minnesota
Nebraska
Northwestern
Ohio State
Penn State
Purdue
Rutgers
Wisconsin


PAC-12

Arizona
Arizona State
California
Colorado
Oregon
Oregon State
Stanford
UCLA
USC
Utah
Washington
Washington State


SEC

Alabama
Arkansas
Auburn
Florida
Georgia
Kentucky
LSU
Mississippi
Mississippi State
Missouri
South Carolina
Tennessee
Texas A&M
Vanderbilt


Extra Credit
What Is CS?















 







    Tuesday, Aug 19, 2014 11:24 am




 


 





Update: Florida State Releases A Video Of Bobby Bowden Saying What People Should Do If His Statue At FSU Comes To Life
Bill DiFilippo

Update: Florida State released a video of someone asking Bowden the question, “If your statue at FSU were to come to life and start wreaking havoc on campus, how do we stop it?” The video features Bowden saying that he wouldn’t want to stop the statue if it came to life. As you can guess, it’s pretty great.

Earlier: Former Florida State head football coach and the all-time winningest coach in FBS history Bobby Bowden did an Ask Me Anything on the college football subreddit today, and answered questions on everything ranging from the best athlete he ever coached to whether he preferred grass or turf. The two-time national championship winning coach was funny and insightful, and every answer came from Bowden’s incredibly unique perspective. Here are his five best answers from the AMA:
5) Bowden talks about his dream job: the head football coach at Alabama
4) A Miami fan tries to troll Bowden about Wide Right I and Wide Right II, but Bowden takes it like a champ
 
3) Bowden remembers coaching against Steve Spurrier while Spurrier was at Florida, takes a good-natured shot at the Ol Ball Coach.

2) Bowden gives his thoughts on the new playoff system and argues that FSU would have played in the College Football Playoff a lot under him

1) Bowden gives some dadgum perfect advice on what FSU students should do if his statue at the school comes to life
 
There were plenty of other fantastic answers from the AMA, including his most memorable moment at FSU, his reaction when his son, Tommy, beat him for the first time, and his preferred brand of sunglasses. If you have some time to kill, definitely check out the entire AMA.





Read More At Bleacher Report 

'Sesame Street' Shades Patriots, Airs Episode Where 'Inflate' Is Word of the DayDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:36 pm
Blake Griffin Pushes Trainer's Head Near Groin, Leaves Sportscasters StrandedDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:02 pm
Celtics' Evan Turner Hits Game-Winning 3-Pointer vs. Trail BlazersTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 5:33 am
Clippers' DeAndre Jordan Throws Down Powerful Dunk Over Nets' Brook LopezTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 4:43 am
Alabama and Auburn Women's Basketball Players Throw Punches During SEC ClashTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:40 am


ZergNet











 









Bill DiFilippo
Penn State graduate. Huge basketball, football and soccer fan. Enjoys rap, indie pop and anything by a 90s boy band. Supporter of any and all court stormings. Follow me on twitter @bflip33, or email me at bill@collegespun.com










In Case You Missed It...
• 5-Star QB Remains Committed To A&M
• Barber: "Glad I Kept My Cool Tonight"
• Photo: Gonzaga Fans Want Kentucky
• Video: Ole Miss O-Line Hype Video
• Miami Fan Shoved Cat Barber
• Bobby Portis' Tip-In Buzzer-Beater
• Michael Qualls' Fast Break Dunk
• Arkansas' Foul Sends Game To OT
• Sims Talks Waffle House With Malzahn
• Qualls' Thunderous Putback Slam









10 Most Delusional Fan Bases In College Sports








The 12 Most Viral CFB Stories Of 2014
The 10 Most Disappointing Teams Of 2014
The 10 Most-Criticized Fan Bases
Top 10 College Football Tailgating Scenes
Kim DeJesus = Hottest Wiffle Ball Player Ever




Avatars by Sterling Adventures
 

College Spun Privacy Policy  |  
Contact  |  
About  |  
Website by Blue Rattle






If You Like College Spun's Content, Help It Grow!


     Go Noles! Follow College Spun's coverage of Florida State!
     




Follow @CollegeSpun
























