Florida State vs. Oklahoma State – Game Time, TV Schedule, Line, Preview, Prediction | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.
Florida State vs. Oklahoma State – Game Time, TV Schedule, Line, Preview, Prediction | College Spun – Social. Local. Consumable. College Sports.















ACC

Boston College
Clemson
Duke
Florida State
Georgia Tech
Louisville
Miami (FL)
NC State
North Carolina
Notre Dame
Pittsburgh
Syracuse
Virginia
Virginia Tech
Wake Forest


Big 12

Baylor
Iowa State
Kansas
Kansas State
Oklahoma
Oklahoma State
TCU
Texas
Texas Tech
West Virginia


Big Ten

Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Maryland
Michigan
Michigan State
Minnesota
Nebraska
Northwestern
Ohio State
Penn State
Purdue
Rutgers
Wisconsin


PAC-12

Arizona
Arizona State
California
Colorado
Oregon
Oregon State
Stanford
UCLA
USC
Utah
Washington
Washington State


SEC

Alabama
Arkansas
Auburn
Florida
Georgia
Kentucky
LSU
Mississippi
Mississippi State
Missouri
South Carolina
Tennessee
Texas A&M
Vanderbilt


Extra Credit
What Is CS?















 







    Tuesday, Aug 26, 2014 4:58 pm




 


 





Florida State vs. Oklahoma State – Game Time, TV Schedule, Line, Preview, Prediction
Nate Jacobson


The No. 1 ranked Florida State Seminoles begins their national title defense in Big 12 country. No one is more excited for the season to begin than reigning Heisman Trophy winner Jameis Winston, who seemed to be in the news for negative reasons all offseason. Oklahoma State returns to the stadium where it played its last game: a Cotton Bowl loss to Missouri.
Date: Saturday, August 30, 2014
Time: 8:00 PM EST
TV Channel: ABC 
Location: AT&T Stadium (Arlington, TX)
Betting Line: Florida State -17.5 via 5Dimes
Prediction: The Seminoles were dominant last season, winning 13 games by 14 points or more. The one time the Seminoles did not do this was in the national championship game, when FSU needed a last minute touchdown to defeat Auburn.
Winston is still the focal point of the offense, which returns several key pieces, like wide receiver Rashad Greene and tight end Nick O’Leary. The Seminoles lost several main contributors on defense, including defensive coordinator Jeremy Pruitt and five of the team’s six top tacklers, but Jimbo Fisher has done a great job reloading Florida State with talent all over the field.
It looks like Oklahoma State’s J.W. Walsh will get the start at quarterback. Walsh started the first six games last season until losing the job to Clint Chelf. Walsh will certainly have something to prove playing near his hometown. Like the ‘Noles, the Cowboys need to replace several starters from last season but, Oklahoma State head coach Mike Gundy has also done a great job recruiting and developing players.
Florida State is the best team in the country, but they are giving a lot of points against a team that won 10 games last season. This is a neutral site game but there might be a small home field advantage for the Cowboys, who are only four hours from AT&T Stadium. Florida State might struggle early on defense with new players and a new coordinator. In the end, we think the Seminoles will end up winning with the Pokes covering the spread. 





Read More At Bleacher Report 

'Sesame Street' Shades Patriots, Airs Episode Where 'Inflate' Is Word of the DayDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:36 pm
Blake Griffin Pushes Trainer's Head Near Groin, Leaves Sportscasters StrandedDan Carson - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:02 pm
Celtics' Evan Turner Hits Game-Winning 3-Pointer vs. Trail BlazersTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 5:33 am
Clippers' DeAndre Jordan Throws Down Powerful Dunk Over Nets' Brook LopezTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 4:43 am
Alabama and Auburn Women's Basketball Players Throw Punches During SEC ClashTyler Brooke - Friday, January 23, 2015 3:40 am


ZergNet











 









Nate Jacobson
Missouri grad. Raised and live in Chicago. Follow on Twitter @natejacobson1. Check out more writing and picks at natejacobson.com.










In Case You Missed It...
• 5-Star QB Remains Committed To A&M
• Barber: "Glad I Kept My Cool Tonight"
• Photo: Gonzaga Fans Want Kentucky
• Video: Ole Miss O-Line Hype Video
• Miami Fan Shoved Cat Barber
• Bobby Portis' Tip-In Buzzer-Beater
• Michael Qualls' Fast Break Dunk
• Arkansas' Foul Sends Game To OT
• Sims Talks Waffle House With Malzahn
• Qualls' Thunderous Putback Slam









10 Most Delusional Fan Bases In College Sports








The 12 Most Viral CFB Stories Of 2014
The 10 Most Disappointing Teams Of 2014
The 10 Most-Criticized Fan Bases
Top 10 College Football Tailgating Scenes
Kim DeJesus = Hottest Wiffle Ball Player Ever




Avatars by Sterling Adventures
 

College Spun Privacy Policy  |  
Contact  |  
About  |  
Website by Blue Rattle






1
















