Shooting reported at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston | FOX2now.com 
Shooting reported at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News 11  

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Shooting reported at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston

Posted 9:58 pm, June 17, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 




 



×
Shooting reported at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston


 


(CNN) – An official close to the investigation told CNN there are multiple fatalities inside the church. The source said there are several bodies in the church that have not yet been identified.
The suspect in the shooting is a clean-shaven white man in his 20s, with a slender build, police say
Police are asking anyone with information about the shooting to call 911 dispatchers
Several people were killed in a shooting at a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina, a source close to the investigation told CNN.
The shooter is still at large.
Police in Charleston, South Carolina, are at the scene of a shooting at a downtown church, a local lawmaker told CNN Wednesday night.
There was no immediate information on potential victims.
The shooting took place at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church, said State Rep. Wendell G. Gilliard who represents the district where the church is located.
Gilliard didn’t have additional information and said he was on his way to the scene.
Police too have offered little information. The department listed the site of the shooting as 110 Calhoun Street, the location of the church.
On its website, the church describes itself as the “oldest AME church in the south.” Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement. Corey Wessenger, who was standing across the street from the church, said the area was swarming with a heavy law enforcement presence.
“I just saw a group about of 40 people escorted by cops,” Wessenger told CNN by phone.
By Ed Payne

32.776475
-79.931051









Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: Trending 













 






Have a news tip?
Do you have a story you want FOX 2 to investigate?  E-mail us.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



“Empire” singing contest is coming to St. Louis



Judge detains kids for refusing to spend time with father





 












News

Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Shooting suspect in custody after Charleston church massacre


News

Charleston shooting suspect charged with 9 counts of murder


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?



 


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville


News

Dylann Storm Roof arrested in North Carolina, according to report


News

St. Louis faith leaders gather to mourn victims of Charleston shooting


News

﻿Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday



 


News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Charleston church shooting: Suspect confesses, says he sought race war






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















