2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina | FOX2now.com 
2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News 11  

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina

Posted 5:27 am, April 9, 2015, by CNN Wires, Updated at 05:21am, April 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 


In both cases, a white police officer kills an unarmed black man. But the outcomes so far have been wildly different.
So what’s changed between the shooting deaths of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and of Walter Scott in North Charleston, South Carolina?
Here are some of the stark differences in the cases, the lessons learned by both police and the public and concrete changes that could mend tensions in the future.
Violence to peace 
Ferguson: The largely peaceful protests in Ferguson were marred by looting, arson and even shootings. Violence erupted in November after the officer who shot Brown, Darren Wilson, wasn’t indicted.
And even after Ferguson’s police chief resigned last month, two officers were shot during a protest at the Ferguson Police Department.
North Charleston: But after Scott was killed in South Carolina over the weekend, protests in North Charleston have been peaceful.
The difference could be that while Wilson was never charged, the North Charleston officer, Michael Slager, has been arrested, charged with murder and fired.
The city’s response 
Ferguson: It took Ferguson police six days to identify Wilson as the officer who shot Brown.
North Charleston: Slager was identified by authorities and charged with murder on Tuesday, two days after Feidin Santana, who recorded the shooting, shared his video with Scott’s family.
Video footage
Ferguson: There was no bystander video of Brown’s death — no concrete evidence to support witness claims that Brown had his hands up to surrender.
North Charleston: It’s unlikely Slager would have been fired and charged with murder so quickly if not for video shot by Santana.
Not only does the video show Slager firing eight shots at Scott as he is running away, it also shows Slager picking up a dark-colored object that had fallen to the ground and later placing a dark object next to Slager’s lifeless body.
That could be significant because Slager initially said Scott had taken his Taser stun gun and feared for his life. But if investigators determine the object dropped next to Scott’s body was actually the Taser, Slager could be accused of planting evidence.
Body cameras
Ferguson: After Brown’s death last August, many asked why Wilson didn’t have a body camera. The shooting spurred a nationwide debate over whether all officers should wear cameras on their lapels.

Three months later, President Barack Obama pledged $263 million to procure body cameras and training for up to 50,000 police officers.
North Charleston: Slager also was not wearing a body camera when he killed Scott. But after the shooting, Mayor Keith Summey said the city was ordering an additional 150 body cameras “so every officer on the street” in the city will have one. That’s in addition to 101 body cameras already ordered, Summey said.
By Holly Yan


CNN’s Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to the report.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (6 images)





Inline



 






Filed in: News 













 






Have a news tip?
Do you have a story you want FOX 2 to investigate?  E-mail us.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



“Empire” singing contest is coming to St. Louis



Judge detains kids for refusing to spend time with father





 












News

The Latest: Rally for black man killed by cop draws about 50


News

3 people shot in Ferguson as new protests break out


News

Officer charged with murder after shooting black man in back: What we know


News

Officer who killed Walter Scott fired; protesters demand justice


Trending

Police officer charged with murder after shown on video shooting black man in back



 


News

Key figure in Michael Brown case arrested in St. Louis


News

South Carolina ex-police officer indicted in Walter Scott killing


News

New audio captures officer ‘laughing’ after deadly South Carolina shooting


News

New witness, dash cam video emerge in South Carolina shooting case


News

Michael Brown’s family set to file wrongful death suit against the city of Ferguson



 


News

‘We would know exactly what happened’ to Freddie Gray with police cameras


News

Walter Scott’s family plans burial as questions swirl in his death


News

South Carolina shooting: Walter Scott didn’t grab Taser, video witness says






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















