New audio captures officer ‘laughing’ after deadly South Carolina shooting | FOX2now.com 
New audio captures officer ‘laughing’ after deadly South Carolina shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News 11  

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







New audio captures officer ‘laughing’ after deadly South Carolina shooting

Posted 6:48 am, April 14, 2015, by CNN Wires, Updated at 06:47am, April 14, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 



Two pieces of audio recorded in the immediate aftermath of a deadly police shooting in South Carolina emerged Monday.
The voice of Michael Slager can be heard in both. The former North Charleston police officer is charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old Walter Scott.
In the first recording, an unidentified officer talks to Slager about what might happen.
“Once they get here, it’ll be real quick. They’re gonna tell you, you’re gonna be off for a couple days and we’ll come back and interview you then. They’re not gonna ask you any type of questions right now. They’re gonna take your weapon,” the officer says. “It’d probably be a good idea to jot down your thoughts about whatever happened … once the adrenaline stops pumping.”
Slager responds: “It’s pumping,” and then laughs.
The second audio, taken from dash cam video from inside a patrol car, captures a phone call between Slager and someone CNN believes is his wife.
He tells her: “Hey. Hey, everything’s OK. OK? I just shot somebody.”
“He grabbed my Taser, yeah. Yeah,” says Slager. “He was running from me. … I’m fine.”
If convicted of murder, the former officer faces up to life in prison or the death penalty, although a death penalty case appears unlikely at this point.
“Based on the facts revealed thus far, it does not appear South Carolina’s death penalty provision applies in this case because there are no statutory ‘aggravating circumstances’ present,” Scarlett A. Wilson, who is the chief prosecutor for the Ninth Judicial Circuit in the state, said on her Facebook page.
Slager was charged after cell phone video emerged, showing him firing at Scott as the man ran away.
Pierre Fulton was riding in a car with Scott before the shooting took place.
“Walter was a dear friend and I miss him every day,” Fulton said in a statement given to ABC News by his lawyer. “Over the past five years he helped me to become a better man and showed me the value of hard work.”
“I’ll never know why he ran, but I know he didn’t deserve to die,” Fulton said. “Please keep Walter and his family in your prayers and respect my privacy moving forward.”
Scott’s death has reignited a national conversation around race and policing. Scott was black; Slager is white.
The case has also brought to light previous instances in which Slager’s behavior on the job is being questioned.
On Monday, attorneys for a man named Julius Wilson announced that they were filing a lawsuit in connection with an August 2014 traffic stop.

During the stop, three officers — including Slager — pulled Wilson out of his car. Wilson was then allegedly shocked with a stun gun. The suit claims Slager used excessive force.
Slager was also named in a police complaint in 2013 after he allegedly “Tased a man for no reason” before slamming him to the ground and dragging him, according to the North Charleston Police Department.
At the time, Slager was searching for a suspect who was described as being 5-feet-5-inches tall. The African-American man he confronted was 6-feet-3 inches tall.
A lawyer for Mario Givens, the man who filed the complaint, said last week that his client plans to file a lawsuit.
Givens said Slager came to his door, ordered him out of the house and then Tased him.
Slager was later cleared in that incident.
By Dana Ford


CNN’s Ray Sanchez contributed to this report.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (3 images)





 






Filed in: News 













 






Have a news tip?
Do you have a story you want FOX 2 to investigate?  E-mail us.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



“Empire” singing contest is coming to St. Louis



Judge detains kids for refusing to spend time with father





 












News

Officer charged with murder after shooting black man in back: What we know


News

South Carolina ex-police officer indicted in Walter Scott killing


Trending

Police officer charged with murder after shown on video shooting black man in back


News

South Carolina shooting: Walter Scott didn’t grab Taser, video witness says


News

New witness, dash cam video emerge in South Carolina shooting case



 


News

Officer who killed Walter Scott fired; protesters demand justice


News

Walter Scott’s family plans burial as questions swirl in his death


News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

The Latest: Rally for black man killed by cop draws about 50


News

5 things to know for your New Day — Tuesday, April 14



 


News

Jon Stewart on Charleston: ‘This was a racist’


News

‘We would know exactly what happened’ to Freddie Gray with police cameras


News

We’re not seeing more police shootings, just more news coverage






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















