Prayer vigil for Charleston shooting victims held in SLC | fox13now.com 
Prayer vigil for Charleston shooting victims held in SLC | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: Live at Eleven / Noon 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

83°







83°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					67°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Prayer vigil for Charleston shooting victims held in SLC

Posted 10:12 pm, June 19, 2015, by Matt McDonald 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





SALT LAKE CITY — A gathering of faiths in Salt Lake City at the Calvary Baptist church offered prayers for those lost in the church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina.
“We’re here because we care.  As pastors and ministers we represent the families of this community and we love one another,” said Pastor France Davis from the Calvary Baptist Church.
A different religious leader stood at the podium to memorialize each of the victims.  They all rose when it came time to offer a prayer for the accused shooter, Dylan Roof.
“You can’t meet violence with violence and expect to win.  At the same time the greatest show of power is showing that you don’t have to be violent to overcome,” said Robert Merrills, Associate Minister at Calvary Baptist.
Part of the discussion at the vigil centered on race and the continued existence of racism in America.  For some sitting in the pews, it’s a message they not only take to heart, but a message that challenged them to take action.
“I talk about it in my circle of friends a lot but I think making a point to talk about it more in my professional circles is super important,” said Niecie Jones, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Several of the speakers encouraged people to take this moment in time as a personal call to action to address the issues in their own communities, mentioning issues ranging from race, to healthcare and hunger.



Filed in: News Topics: charleston church shooting, prayer vigil 













 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



West Nile Virus confirmed in mosquitoes near Ogden, officials warning residents







 


Latest News



Denise Druce



Mini Sugar Cookie Fruit Pizza



SYTYCD Brandon Armstrong



Live coverage: Sentencing for former teacher who pleaded guilty to sex with students





 












News

Vigil in Salt Lake City honors victims of shooting in Charleston


News

Local faith leaders express grief, disappointment over fatal South Carolina church shooting


News

Minister: “No evildoer, no demon” can close church targeted by shooter


News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’



 


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect in mass shooting


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


News

Bishops lead march in Salt Lake City against gun violence


News

Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.


News Politics

Pres. Obama brings up gun control issue while addressing US about Charleston shooting



 


News

Mitt Romney tweet ignites discussion of removal of Confederate Flag at SC Capitol


News

5 hands among thousands mark rare votes of dissent during LDS Church’s General Conference


News

Funeral held for LDS Church apostle Elder L. Tom Perry






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,113 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















