Mother killed during attempted robbery while unloading bags from car | Fox 59 
Mother killed during attempted robbery while unloading bags from car | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News First at Four 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Mother killed during attempted robbery while unloading bags from car

Posted 1:33 AM, June 1, 2015, by Lindy Thackston and Zach Myers, Updated at 06:40pm, June 1, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 



×
Mother killed during attempted robbery while unloading bags from car


 


INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (June 1, 2015) – A woman was fatally shot early Monday morning in the 1400 block of South East Street during an attempted robbery.
Mark Williams says he and his girlfriend, 33-year old Hilary Acton of Clayton, were were unloading a carload of clothing from Goodwill in the 1400 block of South East Street around 1:15 Monday morning.  He told police two unidentified men approached them and demanded the items from their car.  One of the suspects was armed with a handgun.
Williams says neither he nor Acton resisted the suspects, but one of them fired his weapon, hitting Hilary Acton multiple times.  He says he yelled to his brother for help and chased the robbers down the sidewalk.
“I saw his eyes and he was scared when he shot her,” said Williams. “Then they ran and they turned left, then turned around and started shooting at me again.”
Witnesses told police the two suspect ran south down East Street before cutting through a yard and escaping the area near Cottage Avenue.
Williams was not hit, but Acton died from multiple gunshot wounds to the upper body, according to police.
“From my understanding they did not get anything from our victims,” said IMPD Lt. Richard Riddle.  “So it was attempted robbery that unfortunately ended with someone’s life.”
Joel Russell works at a nearby pizza place and called 911.
“I was standing at the back door and heard about seven, eight gunshots go off and some ricochets and I went out and called the police,” said Russell. “Looked down the street, you heard a lady screaming to help the person and I stayed on the phone with 911 until the police came down the road.”
The woman’s parents arrived on the scene around 4 a.m. They spoke about the mother of two.
“She was caring, honest. She was really striving to be who she was supposed to be,” Williams said.  “She loved her kids. She just wanted a family and she just wanted a start at life that was meaningful.”
He continued, “This isn’t right and it’s not over either, so I guess if anybody knows anything, I would just ask you to do the right thing. She was amazing and that should have been me, period. They’re cowards. They just started shooting. They didn’t even try to take the stuff. What was the point of that? I don’t even know them.”
Police do not have any suspects in custody at this time.
Unlike most homicides that involve people who know each other, investigators say this case may truly be a random act of deadly violence.
“At this point in the investigation, we don’t have any information to believe that they were in fact targeted directly, or by any association or known association with our suspects,” Riddle said.
Riddle said several witnesses who were in the area have given investigators helpful information about the suspects.  Detectives were also working to gather surveillance video from a Village Pantry convenience store directly across the street.
Detectives urge anyone with information to call Crime Stoppers of Central Indiana at (317) 262-TIPS (8477). Callers may also text “INDYCS” plus tip information to 274637 (CRIMES).



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












News

Family says man feared arrest before fatal police shooting


Crimetracker News

CVS employees stop robbery suspect, pin him down until police arrive


Crimetracker News

Nine people shot in in two days as violent Memorial Day carries into Tuesday


News

Police: Robbery motive in northeast side shooting


Crimetracker News

Man, juvenile arrested after armed robbery near Purdue University



 


Crimetracker News

Two officers injured, suspect dead in shooting on east side of Indianapolis


News

Police searching for suspect who beat, robbed 86-year-old veteran


Crimetracker News

Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash


Crimetracker News

Woman shoots, fends off three men in early morning attempted robbery


News

Police search for shooters in two morning shootings



 


Crimetracker News

Victim takes suspect’s gun in early morning shooting


News

Kokomo police officer fatally shoots female armed robbery suspect


News

FBI searching for suspect after near east side bank robbery






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















