Lightning Believed Cause of Fire at a Black Church - The New York Times 



Lightning Believed Cause of Fire at a Black Church - The New York Times







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









U.S.|Lightning Believed Cause of Fire at a Black Church
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1LHGyS9




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





U.S. 
Lightning Believed Cause of Fire at a Black Church

By ALAN BLINDER and RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑAJULY 1, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






Smoke rose from the Mount Zion A.M.E. church, early Wednesday.

Credit
            Veasey Conway/Florence Morning News, via Associated Press        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
GREELEYVILLE, S.C. —  A day after a fire gutted a small black church here, a law enforcement official said Wednesday that lightning was the likely cause of the blaze.The fire at Mount Zion African Methodist Episcopal Church, which took more than two hours to extinguish, began around 8:30 p.m. on Tuesday and burned through the church’s roof.As investigators sifted through the soot-blackened brick shell of the church, the F.B.I.’s initial assessment found that there was no sign of arson and that lightning was probably to blame, according to a law enforcement official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the official was not authorized to discuss the matter on the record. Lightning storms moved through the area Tuesday night. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










No Evidence of Hate Crimes in Fires at Black ChurchesJUNE 29, 2015







At a news conference on Wednesday, Special Agent D. Craig Chillcott of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives urged patience as investigators did their work. “We haven’t ruled anything in or anything out at this point,” he said.The fire in this town of just 375 brings to seven the number of churches, six of them with predominantly African-American congregations, that have burned in the last 10 days in South and North Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia and Florida. Two of those appear to have been caused by lightning, and another was electrical.Investigators have found no evidence that any of the fires are connected and no indications of hate crimes. At least two were deliberately set, investigators said, with two still of unclear origins.Despite such assurances, the fires have sent a chill through black congregations that are well aware of a long history of their churches being targeted for violence by racists. As recently as the 1990s, there was a wave of dozens of arson fires at black churches, mostly in the South. In 1995, arsonists burned Mount Zion’s previous home to the ground, and President Bill Clinton visited the church in 1996 to speak out against those crimes.Elected officials in South Carolina, many of them African-American, urged people not to rush to conclusions.“Things are often not what they seem,” Mount Zion’s pastor, the Rev. John Taylor, said. “Just wait and see. Speculation is never good.”All of the recent church fires broke out in the days after the fatal shootings of a pastor and eight members at a Charleston church. A 21-year-old man, Dylann Roof, has been charged in the shootings, which officials have labeled a hate crime.


Alan Blinder reported from Greeleyville, and Richard Pérez-Peña from New York. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting from Washington, and Katie Rogers from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on July 2, 2015, on page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Lightning Believed Cause of Fire at a Black Church.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












