St. Louis faith leaders gather to mourn victims of Charleston shooting | FOX2now.com 
St. Louis faith leaders gather to mourn victims of Charleston shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News 11 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







St. Louis faith leaders gather to mourn victims of Charleston shooting

Posted 5:51 pm, June 18, 2015, by Anthony Kiekow 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS (KTVI) – The sound of song filled the oldest AME church in St. Louis on Thursday, just one day after the sound of gunfire filled the oldest AME church in the south.
A diverse group of people gathered to mourn the nine victims of last night’s mass shooting at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston South Carolina.
The gathering at St. Paul AME Church was organized. It included singing and a message of hope for a world free of violence.
“I think coming together in community always helps because you realize that you are not alone one who is suffering the only one who is hurting,” Rev, Karen Anderson said.
The African Methodist Episcopal church was formed in response to racial discrimination. AME churches have long been a target of hate crimes. The faith leaders at the gathering said the shooting is a clear sign that more needs to be done to address mental health, gun violence and racism.



Filed in: News Topics: charleston shooting, church, national news, prayer, religion 













 






Events Calendar
See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



“Empire” singing contest is coming to St. Louis



Judge detains kids for refusing to spend time with father





 












Trending

Shooting reported at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston


News

Dylann Storm Roof arrested in North Carolina, according to report


News

﻿Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


News

DOJ launches hate crime investigation into Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community



 


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime


News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


News

Charleston church shooting: Suspect confesses, says he sought race war


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?



 


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Shooting suspect in custody after Charleston church massacre


News

Charleston shooting suspect charged with 9 counts of murder






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















