Police justified in White County shooting | Fox 59 
Police justified in White County shooting | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News Live at Five 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police justified in White County shooting

Posted 1:04 AM, May 2, 2015, by Brady Allard 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 



×
Police justified in White County shooting


 


MONON, Ind. (May 2, 2015) – On April 10, 2015 a hostage situation started in Watseka, IL and ended in Monon, IN with a hostage being freed and a suspect being shot after allegedly pointing his firearm at police.
Indiana State Police say the suspect robbed a business at gunpoint in Watseka and fled the scene by foot.  He was then confronted by police at an auto dealership where he took a female hostage and fled in her Napa delivery truck.  Police lost the vehicle after crossing the border into Indiana.
A few hours later an armed robbery occurred in Lafayette at the Lafayette City Cash America that allegedly involved the Napa truck.  The suspect’s vehicle lead police on a chase into White County were stop sticks were deployed.  The vehicle ran over the stop sticks and the pursuit was slowed until the truck pulled into a parking lot on the north edge of Brookston, IN where the suspect dumped the damaged truck and moved himself and his hostage into an SUV.
The SUV drove north through Reynolds on U.S. 421 to Monon, IN. The police deployed stop sticks. While attempting to avoid them the SUV hit another car.  Damage from the crash caused the SUV to begin breaking down.  On the north side of Monon, the SUV ran a silver Chrysler van off the roadway.  The driver and the two passengers exited the van and the suspect moved his hostage at gunpoint into the van.
Police were able to box the van in and when the suspect pointed his weapon at the officers, they defended themselves and fatally shot the suspect.  The hostage was able to exit the van and escape with the help of other officers on scene. The hostage suffered minor injuries and was treated and released from IU Health White Memorial Hospital in Monticello, IN.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












News

Suspect dies after multi-state, multi-county chase and hostage situation


News

SWAT situation ends without incident in Lawrence


News

Suspect in police chase causes fatal accident near Fountain Square; woman killed identified


News

Three people in handcuffs after domestic dispute turns into vehicle chase


News

Suicidal man subdued on Indiana Toll Road



 


Crimetracker News

Bizarre hit-and-run turns violent in Muncie


National & World News

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect


News

Driver flees after striking another vehicle


Crimetracker News

UPDATE: Source of drug supply, four others arrested in drug case tied to HIV outbreak in southern Indiana


News

Police vehicle hit after early morning police chase



 


News

State police: 19 people hurt after Megabus crash in Johnson County


Crimetracker News

Nine people shot in in two days as violent Memorial Day carries into Tuesday


Crimetracker News

Man arrested in downtown Indianapolis after two-county chase stemming from road rage incident






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















