South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville | FOX2now.com 
South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News 11  

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville

Posted 6:07 am, July 1, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 



A fire broke out at the Mt. Zion African Methodist Episcopal Church in Greeleyville, South Carolina, on Tuesday. Up to 50 firefighters fought to extinguish the blaze, a fire official said.
As yet, authorities do not know what caused it, said Williamsburg County Fire Chief Randy Swinton.
The local sheriff, local police and the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division have also responded to the fire at the traditionally black church.
The FBI and five agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is also investigating, said ATF Special Agent Tom Mangan.
“Anytime there is a house of worship involved in a fire, ATF is automatically assigned to look into the cause,” he said.
A sniffer dog will likely be sent in during the first phase of the investigation, once the embers cool down, said Nero Priester, an ATF arson specialist. That could be as early as Wednesday afternoon.
The church’s brick walls were still standing early Wednesday, but the flames gutted the entire interior, fire officials told CNN affiliate WCIV.
Previous hate crime
The church’s previous structure burned in 1995 as a result of hate-motivated arson during a spate of about 30 fires that swept black churches in Southern states at the time. Members of the Ku Klux Klan were responsible for that attack, Mangan said.
Then President Bill Clinton spoke at the new church structure in 1996 days before its official dedication to call for racial unity in the United States.
Greeleyville is small town in rural Williamsburg County in the eastern part of the state.
Senior Bishop John Bryant of AME’s national headquarters said Tuesday night’s fire “will not send us into despair or depression. As Christians, we are a people of resurrection and even from the ashes we will rise.”

Other fires
A racially motivated shooting in the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston earlier this month triggered an outpouring sympathy and outrage throughout the country.
Since that shooting, at least six black churches have burned in the southeastern United States. Investigators have said that there has been no evidence these were hate crimes, nor that they were linked. Two of them may have been the result of arson.
Since the Charleston shooting, the most recent religious targets of hate crimes have been Jewish synagogues and Islamic mosques, the Southern Poverty Law Center said.
By Ben Brumfield and Sam Stringer


CNN’s Marylynn Ryan, Dave Alsup and Rick Davis contributed to this report.




Filed in: News 













 






Antenna TV
KTVI’s digital channel 2.2 shows hit movies and classic TV.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



“Empire” singing contest is coming to St. Louis



Judge detains kids for refusing to spend time with father





 












News

No hate crimes found in 6 black church fires, authorities say


News

Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime


Trending

Shooting reported at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?



 


News

St. Louis faith leaders gather to mourn victims of Charleston shooting


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Dylann Storm Roof arrested in North Carolina, according to report


News

South Carolina Gov. calls for removal of Confederate flag from capitol grounds


News

Shooting suspect in custody after Charleston church massacre



 


News

Charleston church shooting: Suspect confesses, says he sought race war


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

DOJ launches hate crime investigation into Charleston church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















