South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

78°







78°


Low 72°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  86°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 Flash Flood Watch in effect for parts of New York area						








 







South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville

Posted 11:38 PM, June 30, 2015, by CNN, Updated at 03:32am, July 1, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 





(CNN) — A fire broke out at the Mt. Zion African Methodist Episcopal Church in Greeleyville, South Carolina, on Tuesday. Up to 50 firefighters fought to extinguish the blaze, a fire official said.
As yet, authorities do not know what caused it, said Williamsburg County Fire Chief Randy Swinton.
The local sheriff, local police and the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division have also responded to the fire at the traditionally black church.
The FBI and five agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is also investigating, said ATF Special Agent Tom Mangan.
“Anytime there is a house of worship involved in a fire, ATF is automatically assigned to look into the cause,” he said.
A sniffer dog will likely be sent in during the first phase of the investigation, once the embers cool down, said Nero Priester, an ATF arson specialist. That could be as early as Wednesday afternoon.
The church’s brick walls were still standing early Wednesday, but the flames gutted the entire interior, fire officials told CNN affiliate WCIV.
Previous hate crime
The church’s previous structure burned in 1995 as a result of hate-motivated arson during a spate of about 30 fires that swept black churches in Southern states at the time. Members of the Ku Klux Klan were responsible for that attack, Mangan said.
Then President Bill Clinton spoke at the new church structure in 1996 days before its official dedication to call for racial unity in the United States.
Greeleyville is small town in rural Williamsburg County in the eastern part of the state.
Senior Bishop John Bryant of AME’s national headquarters said Tuesday night’s fire “will not send us into despair or depression. As Christians, we are a people of resurrection and even from the ashes we will rise.”
Other fires
A racially motivated shooting in the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston earlier this month triggered an outpouring sympathy and outrage throughout the country.
Since that shooting, at least six black churches have burned in the southeastern United States. Investigators have said that there has been no evidence these were hate crimes, nor that they were linked. Two of them may have been the result of arson.
Since the Charleston shooting, the most recent religious targets of hate crimes have been Jewish synagogues and Islamic mosques, the Southern Poverty Law Center said.



PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]


PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit


DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says


New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]





Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News 













 






BUCKLE UP BOSTON! Yankees take on the Red Sox, Friday at 7 on PIX11
Don’t miss this key game in the ancient rivalry between the Yanks and the Sox, exclusively on PIX11. Catch the pre-game at 6:30 p.m. 







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Children found wandering alone in the Bronx



More than 21 million affected by U.S. government data breach



Gov. Cuomo declines to name single mayoral accomplishment by de Blasio



Passengers stuck for 3 hours when train and rescue train break down





 












News

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community


Queens

De Blasio, church leaders, rally in Queens for Charleston victims


News

Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime


News

Vigils held in Harlem to remember victims of South Carolina church shooting


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings



 


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’



 


News

How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


New Jersey News

One of the victims in South Carolina church massacre has ties to New Jersey






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















