Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’ | myfox8.com 
Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’ | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 5:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

94°







94°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’

Posted 7:30 am, June 19, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 



×
Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


 


[Update 10:26 a.m.] Dylann Roof has been charged with nine counts of murder and possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime in this week’s shooting at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., police tweeted Friday.
Roof is expected to have a bond hearing in a South Carolina court at 2 p.m. Friday, according to Charleston police.
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Dylann Roof has confessed to authorities to shooting and killing nine people this week at a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., two law enforcement officials said Friday.
One of the officials said that Roof, who is white, told investigators that he wanted to start a race war.
He himself bought the .45-caliber handgun used in the shooting last April at a Charleston gun store, according to the two officials.
Earlier, a senior law enforcement official had indicated that Roof’s father bought him a Glock firearm for his birthday.
[Original story published at 4:36 a.m. ET]
Shortly after he turned 21 in April, Dylann Roof got a gun. What’s unclear is how.
What may be getting clearer is why.
A senior law enforcement official briefed on the investigation told CNN that Roof’s father bought him a .45-caliber Glock handgun for his birthday.
His grandfather says Roof was given “birthday money” and that the family didn’t know what Roof did with it.
However he got the gun, police say it was Roof, a white man, who opened fire at a prayer meeting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., killing nine African-Americans.
It’s not known whether that handgun was used when Roof allegedly opened fire Wednesday night.
But as he awaits a bond hearing possibly Friday, that’s one of the many threads investigators are pursuing.
The question of why
The other thread is why.
It’s not so much why Roof allegedly did what he did. Authorities say he apparently was motivated by hate, telling the African-American congregants, “You rape our women, and you’re taking over our country.”
It’s more how the shooting came to be, and the events that precipitated it.
Roof’s roommate, Joey Meek, told ABC News that Roof “was big into segregation,” and was plotting for six months.
“I think he wanted something big like Trayvon Martin,” Meek told the network. “He wanted to make something spark up the race war again.”
But Meek never alerted authorities.
A tip, an arrest
Roof was arrested Thursday morning about 245 miles (395 kilometers) away in Shelby, North Carolina. He waived extradition and arrived back in South Carolina late Thursday.
Police got a tip from Debbie Dills, who reportedly spotted Roof on her way into work. She followed him for 35 miles.
“I don’t know what drew my attention to the car,” she told CNN.
She saw it had a South Carolina license plate. “In my mind I’m thinking, ‘That can’t be.’ … I never dreamed that it would be the car.”
Dills followed Roof for more than 30 miles, keeping authorities updated along the way.
Shelby police eventually caught up with Roof, pulled him over and took him into custody before returning him to Charleston.
The attack
Before he allegedly opened fire at the church Wednesday night, Roof sat with them. He might have prayed with them.
A Snapchat video from Wednesday night at the historic African-American church shows Roof at a table with the small group. Nothing in the footage suggests the carnage to come.
Six women and three men were killed, including the church’s politically active pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney.
Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of Pinckney, said she heard about what happened inside the church from a survivor, a close friend.
Johnson told CNN her friend recounted the man coming into the church, asking for the minister.
“My cousin, being the nice, kind, welcoming person he is, he welcomed him to his congregation, welcomed him to the Bible study, and he sat there for an hour … At the conclusion of the Bible study, they just heard just a ringing of a loud noise, and it was just awful from what I heard,” Johnson said.
When the son of her friend pleaded with the shooter to stop, Johnson said the gunman replied: “‘No, you’ve raped our women, and you are taking over the country … I have to do what I have to do.’ And he shot the young man.”
A deadly scene
Her friend pretended she was dead.
“But she watched her son fall and laid there. She laid there in his blood,” Johnson said.
From what she heard, the gunman reloaded five times.
Before he left the church, he asked one of the elderly members whether he had shot her, and she said no.
“And he said good, because we need a survivor because I’m going to kill myself,” Johnson told CNN.
A law enforcement official said witnesses told authorities the gunman stood up and said he was there “to shoot black people.”
Connection to hate groups
Police are now trying to determine whether Roof had any links to hate groups.
Authorities released a mug shot of him from Lexington County on Thursday. It was taken after a trespassing arrest in April. According to an arrest warrant from a February incident, Roof had an unlabeled pill bottle with a drug believed to be suboxone, which is used to treat opiate addiction. Roof told police a friend gave him drugs. The status of the cases is unclear.
In an image tweeted by the Berkeley County, South Carolina, government, Roof is wearing a jacket with what appear to be the flags of apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that was ruled by a white minority until it became independent in 1980 and changed its name to Zimbabwe.
The victims
Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten identified the nine victims as follows: Cynthia Hurd, 54; Susie Jackson, 87; Ethel Lance, 70; Rev. DePayne Middleton-Doctor, 49; Hon. Rev. Clementa Pinckney, 41; Tywanza Sanders, 26; Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., 74; Rev. Sharonda Singleton, 45; Myra Thompson, 59.
Wooten told reporters that the victims all suffered gunshot wounds and died as a result of them.
Three people survived the shooting, including a woman who received a chilling message from the shooter.
“Her life was spared, and (she was) told, ‘I’m not going to kill you, I’m going to spare you, so you can tell them what happened,’ ” Charleston NAACP President Dot Scott told CNN. She said she heard this from the victim’s family members.
Hate crime investigation
Federal authorities have opened a hate crime investigation into the shooting at the oldest AME church in the South, the Department of Justice said.
“The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate,” Charleston Mayor Riley said.
It was not clear if the gunman targeted any individual.
“We don’t know if anybody was targeted other than the church itself,” Charleston police Chief Greg Mullen said.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: Charleston 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



F-16 jet, Cessna plane collide near Charleston, SC; 2 dead



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Government data breach impacted 21.5 million



SC governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag



NC man visiting New Jersey could face prison time after police find handgun in car



Today at 5:00: Aftermath of Randleman wastewater spill





 












News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC



 


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

GoFundMe page for sister of accused Charleston church shooter taken down


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?


News

Dashcam video shows arrest of Charleston church shooter in Shelby



 


News

Wedding canceled, sister of accused Charleston shooter asks for donations


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,420 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















