Shooting suspect still sought after wild afternoon in Greensboro neighborhood | myfox8.com 
Shooting suspect still sought after wild afternoon in Greensboro neighborhood | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 5:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

94°







94°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Shooting suspect still sought after wild afternoon in Greensboro neighborhood

Posted 5:00 pm, June 26, 2015, by Joe Dominguez, Updated at 10:38pm, June 26, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





GREENSBORO, N.C. — Police have yet to find the weapon used to shoot a man in the leg at least twice on a wild afternoon in the Pomona neighborhood near West Wendover Avenue Friday.
It started around 4 p.m. when police were called to a motor vehicle accident in which a car ran into a home on Hewitt Street.
Police said the people involved in that crash were also involved in an attempted armed robbery at Clifton Road and Rucker Street just a few moments before.
Police believe the people inside the car ran off on foot and were also involved in the shooting on Cranbrook Street.
“I heard the five shots I thought, ‘Lord someone might be getting shot and killed,’” said Richard Welborn, who was walking to the store when he heard the gunfire.
Welborn said he ducked for cover behind a home and the next thing he saw were several police cars swarm the neighborhood.
Witnesses said police arriving on the scene for the wreck also heard the gunshots and started blocking several streets immediately.
“All these appear to be one incident just spread out in the span of three minutes or less in this three-block area,” said Captain Mike Richey with the Greensboro Police Department.
Police questioned several people at the scene and put some into the back of patrol vehicles but have yet to identify any suspects in the shooting or attempted armed robbery.
“We’re getting a lot of different stories a lot of detectives a lot of officers collecting the stories so we’ll come back in we’ll put them together to see what really happened,” said Richey.
Richey said no police officers fired any shots and couldn’t say if all the gunfire came from one gun or more.
Police believe they are looking for two or three people who were involved in the attempted armed robbery, hit and run and shooting.

36.072635
-79.791975




Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



F-16 jet, Cessna plane collide near Charleston, SC; 2 dead



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Government data breach impacted 21.5 million



SC governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag



NC man visiting New Jersey could face prison time after police find handgun in car



Today at 5:00: Aftermath of Randleman wastewater spill





 












News

Killer on the loose, neighborhood in fear, after Mother’s Day homicide in Winston-Salem


News

Marine vet says he could ‘have been just another unsolved murder’ after Winston-Salem gunfight


News

Greensboro police: ‘Cluster of crime’ to start April not random, shouldn’t scare public


News

Attackers kill 1, wound 11 at child’s birthday party in Detroit


News

Alleged casino gunman killed by police texted victim’s family calling himself ‘the Grim Reaper’



 


News

Shots fired into Winston-Salem home near school bus stop


News

Suspect killed after opening fire on officers outside Dallas police headquarters


News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video


News

Man accused of leading deputy on chase in Burlington, shooting patrol car, crashing into another


News

George Zimmerman injured after shooting: The dueling narratives



 


News

12 people arrested during protests over Freddie Gray’s death


News

Officer who stood on hood of car and shot, killed unarmed occupants found not guilty


News

Update: Man in Greensboro shooting ‘very lucky’ to be alive






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,420 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















