Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting | FOX40 
Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting | FOX40






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX40 News 

FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 59°
High 80°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  85°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting

Posted 7:11 AM, June 18, 2015, by CNN Wire and Tribune Media Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


CHARLESTON, S.C. — He’s white, slightly built and in his early 20s — and police say he walked into a Charleston, South Carolina, church and fatally shot nine people as they attended Bible study class.
Dylann Storm Roof, 21, is now at the center of a major manhunt.
Police released a flier Thursday morning with details of the suspect in the attack on the historic African-American church as they appealed for help to track him down as quickly as possible.
“The following subject is wanted for the shooting that occured in Charleston at the Emanuel AME Church. Subject is Dylann Storm Roof w/m 4/3/1994 5’9″ 120 lbs. The subject should be driving a 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS, SC registration LGF330. The vehicle is dark-colored. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous and caution should be used if seen. “
Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen told a news conference that officers “have obtained surveillance videos of the suspect in this case and a suspect vehicle.”
Mullen said the suspect was a “younger white male between 21 and 25 years of age, 5-foot-9 in height” and “has a very distinctive sweatshirt that has markings.”
Mullen emphasized the suspect is “a very dangerous individual” and said “he should not be approached by anyone.”
Any people who recognize the suspect or spots the vehicle should alert law enforcement, he said, rather than trying to follow themselves.


Suspect in #Charleston shooting identified as 21 yr old Dylann Roof. If you know his whereabouts, call 1-800-CALL-FBI pic.twitter.com/EmFL5gLMCL
— Berkeley County SC (@BerkeleySCGov) June 18, 2015

Woman spared by shooter to give account?
A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.
Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night. Scott added that she didn’t know if the survivor had ended up at the hospital or being questioned by police.
Because of the church’s historic significance, it is not unusual for visitors, whether white or black, to visit it, Scott said. She said she’d had no indication that any children were among the victims.
Mullen told the news conference the suspect had been in the church attending a meeting that was going on — and “stayed there almost an hour with the group before the actual event.”
But he declined to comment on whether the suspect had let one woman escape.
‘Distinctive’ license plate
The suspect was seen leaving the church in a black four-door sedan, the flier says. “The vehicle you will see has a very distinctive front license plate,” Mullen added.
He appealed for the media to help in circulating the suspect’s image and for the public to be vigilant. The clean-shaven man pictured wears a gray sweatshirt over a white T-shirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.
“No one in this community will ever forget this night and as a result of this and because of the pain and the hurt this individual has caused this entire community, the law enforcement agents are committed and we will catch this individual,” Mullen said.
Charleston Mayor Joe Riley echoed that sentiment, saying everything must be done to find a culprit he described as “somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”
The man is a “no-good, horrible person” who must be taken into custody as soon as possible, he said. “Of course we will make sure he pays the price for this horrible act.”
Wednesday night’s attack at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is being investigated as a hate crime. All the victims, who include the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, were black. Six of those killed were female and three male.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News Topics: Charleston Church Shooting 













 






FOX40 Rewards
More Ways To Get Points. Join Now!







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



Man Allegedly Holding Explosive Device Arrested in Placerville



More than 21 Million Affected by Government Data Breach



Bethany Does a Headstand Using TRX Yoga



PWBA Storm Sacramento Open





 












News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


National and World News

Woman Says Charleston Shooter Spared Her to ‘Tell Everyone’ What Happened


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War


National and World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are Jail Neighbors, Police Confirm


National and World News

Charleston Shooting Suspect Hears Victim’s Family Say, ‘I Forgive You’



 


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call Hate Crime


National and World News

Charleston Victims: 9 Lives Lost to Family and Community


National and World News

Minister: ‘No Evildoer, No Demon’ Can Close Church Targeted by Shooter


News

FBI Investigating Cause of Latest Church Fire


National and World News News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images Of Roof



 


National and World News

South Carolina Police Shooting: Authorities Release Dash Cam Video


National and World News

Walmart to Stop Selling Confederate Flag Merchandise


Local News

Modesto Church Honors Lives Lost in Charleston Shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















