Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting | FOX2now.com 
Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News 11 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting

Posted 2:56 pm, June 26, 2015, by CNN Wires, Updated at 02:59pm, June 26, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





CHARLESTON, SC — President Barack Obama on Friday eulogized the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, one of the victims in last week’s church massacre, calling him a “man of God who lived by faith.”
“We are here today to remember a man of God who lived by faith,” Obama said. “A man who believed in things not seen. A man who believed there were better days ahead, off in the distance. A man of service who persevered knowing full well he would not receive all those things he was promised, because he believed his efforts would provide a better life for those who followed.”
The President’s remarks both memorialized the victims and touched upon the current controversy surrounding the Confederate flag and what he said was a need for more gun control in the wake of the tragedy.
“By taking down that flag we express God’s grace,” he said.
Obama finished his remarks by breaking into song, joining the assembled in a rendition of “Amazing Grace.”
Friday’s funeral service for Pinckney isn’t the first time Obama delivered a high-profile eulogy, and with a year and a half remaining in office, it may not be the last.
But when the President stood in historic downtown Charleston to remember the slain pastor and eight others shot down in their church last week, his speech moved beyond just grief for the victims — Obama stepped directly into a national conversation about race in which he plays a central role.
The President, first lady Michelle Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, a bipartisan host of high-level members of Congress and Hillary Clinton headed to TD Arena for the memorial service a week after a 21-year-old man opened fire at a Bible study inside Charleston’s Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.
The shooter declared he was there to “kill black people,” and an online manifesto attributed to him contained white supremacist screeds.
Obama, responding to the shooting hours into its aftermath, said the attack “raises questions about a dark part of our history” and called racism “a particular threat to our democracy and our ideals.”
Later, speaking during a podcast interview, he candidly addressed new questions about American racism prompted by the attack, using the N-word to explain that suggestions the country has been “cured” of racism are misguided.
The shooting in Charleston left Obama “shaken,” according to Rep. James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat who spoke with Obama the morning after the incident.
Unlike past times Obama has confronted an act of violence, he knew the highest profile victim of the Charleston shooting personally. Obama met Pinckney as an early supporter of his 2008 presidential bid. Biden met the pastor and state lawmaker less than a year ago at a prayer breakfast in the state capital.
That personal connection differentiated Friday’s eulogy from the funerals Obama keynoted after previous shootings. So, too, are the renewed questions on race spurred by the shooter’s apparent motivations.
Around the country, traditional symbols of the Confederacy have come under renewed scrutiny, including the Confederate flag that flies at the South Carolina State House.
Obama himself used some of his bluntest language to date on race during an interview with comedian Marc Maron on Friday, saying that just because the N-word is no longer used frequently in public, “that’s not the measure of whether racism still exists or not.”
The moment was a distant cry from the earlier days of Obama’s presidency, when he studiously avoided discussing race or the implications of his election to office.
“I think that the President has grown very weary of having to circumvent these issues, which a lot of people thought was the appropriate thing for him to do as President of the United States,” Clyburn said. “But I think he has reached a conclusion that he needs to meet this issue head-on.”
Ryan Julison, who is a spokesman for Walter Scott’s family, told CNN “The family of Walter Scott will attend today’s funeral for Reverend Pinckney. They want to show the same support to the community that the community showed to them.”

32.776475
-79.931051




Filed in: News Topics: charleston, eulogy, president obama, Rev. Clementa Pinckney, south carolina 













 






STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



“Empire” singing contest is coming to St. Louis



Judge detains kids for refusing to spend time with father





 












News

A pastor who first heard the call at 13 — one of Charleston’s nine victims


News

President Obama set to eulogize pastor in Charleston shooting


News

President Obama: Crooner-in-chief


News

Shooting suspect in custody after Charleston church massacre


News

Charleston victim funerals begin, as Confederate flag falls in other states



 


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime


News

Charleston racist shooter Roof wanted an AR-15; had magazines, accessory


News

Confederate flag still flies as Pinckney’s body heads for S.C. Capitol



 


News

Dylann Storm Roof arrested in North Carolina, according to report


News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


News

$225K raised in wake of Charleston church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















