Man killed in police-action shooting remembered by friends, family, IMPD | Fox 59 
Man killed in police-action shooting remembered by friends, family, IMPD | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News Live at Five 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Man killed in police-action shooting remembered by friends, family, IMPD

Posted 10:47 PM, April 22, 2015, by Charlie De Mar, Updated at 11:03pm, April 22, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS,Ind (April 22, 2015)– A man killed in a police-action shooting earlier this month was remembered by friends, family and even a member of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) during a candle light vigil.
Mack Long
Mack Long was shot and killed after a struggle with police near the intersection of East 31st Street and North Sherman Drive. Several religious leaders were present Wednesday evening to honor Long’s life.
“There should not be a mother crying over the loss of her son,” said Bishop Victor T. Wood, New Unity Church.
“Mack, I wish he was here, I really do,” said Keonna Williams.
The support of family helps heal the wounds, but Long’s niece is still struggling with losing the man she looked at as a father.
“It builds us up some but it will never bring him back,” said Laseria Long.
Williams was driving with Long moments before he died. She says Long was in the passenger side of the car when they were pulled over for a routine traffic stop. Moments later, Long allegedly ran from the car with a gun in-hand. Officers eventually caught up with him and a struggle for one of the weapons ensured behind an abandoned house near 31st street and Sherman Avenue. Police say one of the responding officers shot and killed Long in fear for his own life.
“As I shared with the family, it’s alright to be bitter, it’s all right to be angry but there’s going to have to come a point in time when God will have heal that pain and bitterness,” said Bishop Wood.
Long is a convicted felon and had a gun on him the day of the shooting. Family at Wednesday’s vigil still wonder what happened in the grassy area behind the abandoned house.
Police say one of the officers on scene was wearing a body camera during the exchange. Currently, IMPD is reviewing that footage. This case is still under investigation.


Related stories

IMPD: Video evidence exists in fatal officer-involved shooting
Family says man feared arrest before fatal police shooting
Two officers injured, suspect dead in shooting on east side of Indianapolis




Filed in: News Topics: Local News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












News

Family of man killed by IMPD officers wants video made public


News

Family says man feared arrest before fatal police shooting


News

IMPD: Video evidence exists in fatal officer-involved shooting


News

		49 mins ago	

Police release video footage related to man’s death in police-involved shooting


Crimetracker News

Two officers injured, suspect dead in shooting on east side of Indianapolis



 


National & World News

Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime


Crimetracker News

Mother killed during attempted robbery while unloading bags from car


News

Coroner identifies young man who was shot and killed on northeast side


News

Police investigating fatal shooting of 57-year-old man on the near east side


News

IMPD honor guard officers remember one of their own in Washington, D.C.



 


News

Officer Perry Renn’s widow talks with FOX59 in Washington, D.C.


News

Family of alleged teen robber killed in Kokomo police shooting hires lawyer


Crimetracker News

Suspect arrested in connection with road rage homicide case






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















