Police investigating two shootings that leave one man dead on city’s westside | Fox 59 
Police investigating two shootings that leave one man dead on city’s westside | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News Live at Five 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police investigating two shootings that leave one man dead on city’s westside

Posted 12:59 AM, May 26, 2015, by Bill Remeika 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 



×
Police investigating two shootings that leave one man dead on city’s westside


 


INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (May 26, 2015) – Shortly after 10:30 p.m. Monday, officers with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department were dispatched to the 800 block of Chapelwood Boulevard on the report of several shots  being fired.  The run was subsequently updated to reflect someone had been shot.
When officers arrived, they found an unidentified and unresponsive male suffering from a gunshot wound to the head.  EMS crews arrived and pronounced the victim deceased.  Moments later officers received a second dispatched run reference a person shot to the 500 block of Venus Drive.  When officers arrived there, they found an adult male suffering from a gunshot wound to the stomach.  The unidentified man was transported to Eskenazi Hospital in stable condition.
Investigators preliminary believe that the two shooting incidents are related and likely the result of an ongoing disturbance.  The Indianapolis-Marion County Forensic Services Agency is processing the crime scene, and the Marion County Coroner’s Office will positively identify the victim.  Homicide detectives continue to canvass the area for additional information but urge anyone with information about the shooting to call Crime Stoppers of Indiana at (317) 262-TIPS.
 



Filed in: Crimetracker 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












Crimetracker

UPDATE: Man killed, another transported to hospital after shootings on near east side


News

Person shot multiple times on near North side


Crimetracker News

Nine people shot in in two days as violent Memorial Day carries into Tuesday


Crimetracker News

Two people shot on Indianapolis’ east side; police searching for suspects’ vehicle


News

Police investigating drive-by shooting that killed one man, injured 3 others



 


Crimetracker News

Man dead after dispute leads to east side shooting


News

Police investigating double shooting on far east side


Crimetracker News

Man fatally shot after illegal dice game on near north side of Indianapolis


News

One person dead, two others hurt after late Sunday night shootings


Crimetracker News

At least 6 hurt in Fort Wayne shooting



 


Crimetracker News

Hail of gunfire leaves one man dead, another wounded, and cars damaged


News

Man found shot to death inside north side apartment


Crimetracker News

Ten Point Coalition working overtime during holiday weekend to combat recent violence






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















