Dylann Storm Roof: Police name suspect in Charleston church shooting | Q13 FOX News 
Dylann Storm Roof: Police name suspect in Charleston church shooting | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Replay: Q13FOX News This Morning 

Q13 FOX TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

78°







78°


Low 60°
High 86°





Fri


					60°  80°
					


Sat


					59°  75°
					


Sun


					60°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 



 


 34-year-old woman killed in ice cave collapse identified						








 







Dylann Storm Roof: Police name suspect in Charleston church shooting

Posted 7:09 AM, June 18, 2015, by Tribune Media Wire and CNN Wire, Updated at 08:24am, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePinterestEmail 


CHARLESTON, S.C. — Dylann Roof, 21, of Lexington, South Carolina, is the suspect in Wednesday’s deadly shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, the Charleston police said Thursday. He may be driving a black Hyundai with vehicle tag LGF330, police said.
Dylann Storm Roof, 21, is now at the center of a major manhunt.
Police released a flier Thursday morning with details of the suspect in the attack on the historic African-American church as they appealed for help to track him down as quickly as possible.
“The following subject is wanted for the shooting that occured in Charleston at the Emanuel AME Church. Subject is Dylann Storm Roof w/m 4/3/1994 5’9″ 120 lbs. The subject should be driving a 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS, SC registration LGF330. The vehicle is dark-colored. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous and caution should be used if seen. “
Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen told a news conference that officers “have obtained surveillance videos of the suspect in this case and a suspect vehicle.”
According to The Post and Courier, Roof is currently out on bond in connection with multiple recent arrests on drug and trespassing charges. According to Lexington County School District One, Roof attended White Knoll High School in Lexington, South Carolina for one year, WCSC is reporting. 
Mullen said the suspect was a “younger white male between 21 and 25 years of age, 5-foot-9 in height” and “has a very distinctive sweatshirt that has markings.”
Mullen emphasized the suspect is “a very dangerous individual” and said “he should not be approached by anyone.”
The uncle of the suspect told Reuters he recognized his nephew in the photo released by police. He also said Roof received a .45 caliber pistol as a birthday present in April.
Witnesses told officials Roof reportedly said he was at the church to shoot black people, a source told CNN.
Any people who recognize the suspect or spots the vehicle should alert law enforcement, he said, rather than trying to follow themselves.
Woman spared by shooter to give account?
A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.

Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night. Scott added that she didn’t know if the survivor had ended up at the hospital or being questioned by police.
Because of the church’s historic significance, it is not unusual for visitors, whether white or black, to visit it, Scott said. She said she’d had no indication that any children were among the victims.
Mullen told the news conference the suspect had been in the church attending a meeting that was going on — and “stayed there almost an hour with the group before the actual event.”
But he declined to comment on whether the suspect had let one woman escape.
‘Distinctive’ license plate
The suspect was seen leaving the church in a black four-door sedan, the flier says. “The vehicle you will see has a very distinctive front license plate,” Mullen added.
He appealed for the media to help in circulating the suspect’s image and for the public to be vigilant. The clean-shaven man pictured wears a gray sweatshirt over a white T-shirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.
“No one in this community will ever forget this night and as a result of this and because of the pain and the hurt this individual has caused this entire community, the law enforcement agents are committed and we will catch this individual,” Mullen said.
Charleston Mayor Joe Riley echoed that sentiment, saying everything must be done to find a culprit he described as “somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”
The man is a “no-good, horrible person” who must be taken into custody as soon as possible, he said. “Of course we will make sure he pays the price for this horrible act.”
Wednesday night’s attack at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is being investigated as a hate crime. All the victims, who include the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, were black. Six of those killed were female and three male.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



 



			25 comments		




 

"peety"

same ol same ol in NRAmerica




							June 18, 2015 at 7:19 AM						

Reply







 

hellomurica

Same ol Peety, spouting his ignorance.




							June 18, 2015 at 7:52 AM						

Reply







 

d_2

@PEETY  C’mon PEETY time to grow up don’t ya think?  This has zero to do with the NRA.  You still must be blaming McDonald’s for your kids being fat right?  Good grief.




							June 18, 2015 at 7:55 AM						

Reply







 

"peety"

odd that their gun laws are weak but there is no connection…  hmm
South Carolina law does not:
    Require a background check prior to the transfer of a firearm between unlicensed individuals;
    Regulate the transfer or possession of assault weapons, 50 caliber rifles or large capacity ammunition magazines;
    Require firearm owners to obtain a license, register their firearms, or report lost or stolen firearms;
    Require the reporting of mental health information to the federal database used for firearm purchaser background checks;
    Impose a waiting period prior to purchase of a firearm;
    Limit the number of firearms that may be purchased at one time;
    Significantly regulate ammunition sales;
    Allow local governments to regulate firearms or ammunition; or
    Give law enforcement discretion to deny a concealed handgun permit.
In 2010, South Carolina had the 15th highest number of gun deaths per capita among the states. In addition, based on data published by Mayors Against Illegal Guns, South Carolina supplied the sixth highest number of crime guns to other states per capita in 2009, and exports far more crime guns than it imports.




							June 18, 2015 at 8:09 AM						

Reply







 

Das Capitan

Yes, of course, we’ll use the Bloomberg talking points, then we’ll cite some reputable sources like Mayors Against the NRA & Hippies Against Gunpowder……..nicely done, Forrest.




							June 18, 2015 at 8:32 AM						

Reply











 

Das Capitan

In the wake of such a horrible tragedy, and all you can think to say is some inane political rant.  What a bedwetter.




							June 18, 2015 at 8:30 AM						

Reply







 

"PEETY"

Yes, bury your head in the sand like every gun incident America has to do with. Of course it has NOTHING to do with the fact that anybody (yes, even the mentally fucked up) can easily get a gun (owing to lax gun laws, because MURICA right?)
Aurora. Sandy Hook. Columbine. Wake up.




							June 18, 2015 at 3:26 PM						

Reply







 

tootietuttle

yes, peety…who is going to protect us from left wing…Cabrini, compton, New York, White Center, Burien, South Seattle, Tacoma, and who is going to protect left wing from left wing??  The problem is not the NRA…look deeper at the policies of the leftwing which tax middle class to death, and keep poor, poor and give no incentive to work and get “rich”.




							June 19, 2015 at 9:42 AM						

Reply













 

d_2

“somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”  Hoping this monster is caught soon and justice levied to the fullest extent.




							June 18, 2015 at 7:20 AM						

Reply







 

flag patches

Conclusively racially motivated – those flag patches are the flag of Apartheid South Africa and White-ruled Rhodesia




							June 18, 2015 at 7:46 AM						

Reply







 

PaulaBarrett

Thanks for identifying those I was wondering what they were. So this @55h0le is some kind of White Supremacy moron? I think he should be put in a cell with Rachel Dolezal and let’s see what happens.




							June 18, 2015 at 1:41 PM						

Reply









 

hellomurica

Calling it now – this guy had a history of mental health problems.




							June 18, 2015 at 7:52 AM						

Reply







 

Frank

Why in the world would anyone  give this trouble kid a gun for a birthday present?




							June 18, 2015 at 7:59 AM						

Reply







 

Ralph

I hope he is neutralized by the police and doesn’t go to trial. Who raised this terrible person?




							June 18, 2015 at 8:18 AM						

Reply







 

Ed Desautels

“He also said Roof received a .45 caliber pistol as a birthday present in April.”  
“Happy Birthday, kid! Here’s a murder machine.”




							June 18, 2015 at 8:25 AM						

Reply







 

PaulaBarrett

Many 16 year olds are given a “murder machine” (AKA a 2000+ pound motor vehicle) for their birthday, I don’t see your point.




							June 18, 2015 at 1:43 PM						

Reply







 

Laszlo Folgerts

Of course you see his point, you just don’t WANT to. Motor vehicles are made to get from point a to point b; they’re not designed to kill people. A gun is only designed for one thing and you know what that is.




							June 18, 2015 at 3:28 PM						

Reply







 

Steve Lutz (@stevemlutz)

A gun is designed for one thing…is it: Target practice? Self defense? Peace through strength? A hobby? I could go on…
I would suggest you think about mental health as the issue here, not guns. I would also urge that this child was never taught the importance of life, which we should also be pointing the finger at instead of guns. Just as spoons don’t make us fat, guns don’t kill. It’s the mental disease which causes someone to murder a life.
I would also add that gun control against the citizens of a country only does one thing…it takes guns from citizens and leaves them in the hands of the criminals and governments. I would urge you to look at history to see how that plays out every time.




							June 18, 2015 at 4:26 PM						

Reply













 

Jack

Happy Birthday son…here’s a gun…..




							June 18, 2015 at 8:26 AM						

Reply







 

First amendment

This guy is a suicide bomber with a gun he’s probably already dead also guns are a tool  he could have used a car or joined Seattle Sheild




							June 18, 2015 at 8:27 AM						

Reply







 

kat

REEKS … OF FALSE FLAG. there is a agenda here.. TO SCRIPTED! kid looks like ADAM LANZA,JAMES HOLMES. what they do to these folks before then SEND THEM ON ASSASSINATIONS!?




							June 18, 2015 at 9:09 AM						

Reply







 

Steve Lutz (@stevemlutz)

Whether or not this was a false flag (which probably will never be proven just as 99% of the others couldn’t be), I can guarantee that those with an agenda will use this event to further their agenda rather than fixing the problem of this country.
Too many lies and political stunts…we need real solutions. We need to completely overhaul our government and political leaders. It’s time to fire them all and start fresh.




							June 18, 2015 at 4:29 PM						

Reply









 

david zhang (@davidzhang5307)

Why do they immediately say it’s a hate crime? The guy just might be a psycho that would’ve shot anybody he saw! If a black guy shoots 9 white people race is never even mentioned! This victim mentality is what fuels all of this BS!
When we elected President Obama, weren’t we promised “hope and change”?  It seems like his years as president have only torn our nation apart.  
We now have race riots in our streets.  I’ve never seen a country more divided. We all hate each other now.
They say a good economy cures all.  Many of our citizens have had their jobs taken away along with their health insurance.  The middle class is shrinking and its not getting any better.
Obama and Co have destroyed everything they’ve tried “to fix”.  My health insurance is $450/month, my taxes are closing in on 50% (in NYC), and even my subway pass is now over $100/month (in NYC). Stuff that is still private enterprise is super cheap. Car insurance ($25/month from Insurance Panda), cell phone ($22/month from T Mobile), and gym ($15/month from Planet Fitness).   
We have become a very angry country. Everyone is only out for themselves, no sense of community, no respectable dialogue on any issue, talking heads shouting down opposing views. Very sad.




							June 18, 2015 at 10:06 AM						

Reply







 

lizard_man_

you hate afircan american so president obama hate caucasians. 
america was torn.
about this part , you are right
disposable income should increase.
i think rent of rental housing should be decrease.




							June 18, 2015 at 1:03 PM						

Reply









 

fedup

Unfortunately there r sick, demented ppl. I see ppl blaming the president, the gun & other stuff, very likely parents r to blame but at 21 we all know right from wrong! Yes it was a hate crime, the freak said “I wanted to kill as many black ppl I could”! I do think we r throwing around “hate crime” a bit much but this is obvious! Also it has come out HE bought the gun w birthday money, didn’t get the gun for his bday. At this point the story will probably change a few times. So instead of idiots fighting & hating on each other let’s just agree he is a sicko who will get & deserves the death penalty after getting beat in prison!!!!




							June 20, 2015 at 12:23 AM						

Reply











 






 10p News
At Q13 FOX News, each day is a chance to cover the news that impacts you. 
Q13 FOX News at 10, Seattle’s 10 o’clock news team.







 

 


Popular



Disturbing texts reveal final moments before father throws baby from bridge



Suspect leads police to remains of Justin Morris, victim in alleged ‘Frying Pan Murder’



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking







 


Latest News



National Weather Service issues ominous reminder about Great Seattle Fire of 1889



Revoke Bill Cosby’s Medal of Freedom award, rape survivor group petitions



Can computer glitches like the one that took down NYSE be prevented?



Hear from the local company making body cams for law enforcement





 












National & World News

Dylann Storm Roof, suspect in church shooting, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

Quick-thinking woman helps cops capture Charleston church shooting suspect


National & World News

Dylann Roof allegedly confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


National & World News

Details emerge about Charleston church shooting suspect Dylan Storm Roof


National & World News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’



 


National & World News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


National & World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


National & World News

9 killed in what officials call a hate crime at historic church; shooter at large


National & World News

9 dead in black church shooting that police call a hate crime; shooter at large


National & World News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church



 


National & World News

9 dead in mass shooting at Charleston, South Carolina church, police say


National & World News

Obama: ‘This kind of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries’


National & World News

Victims’ families confront accused church shooter: ‘May God have mercy on you’






 





Mobile AppsNews App (iOS)
News App (Android)
Weather App (iOS)
Weather App (Android)




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















