Vigils held in Harlem to remember victims of South Carolina church shooting | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
Vigils held in Harlem to remember victims of South Carolina church shooting | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

78°







78°


Low 72°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  86°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 Flash Flood Watch in effect for parts of New York area						








 







Vigils held in Harlem to remember victims of South Carolina church shooting

Posted 10:18 PM, June 18, 2015, by Ann Mercogliano 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 





NEW YORK — In Harlem, many gathered for vigils and prayer services on Thursday night to remember the nine lives lost when a gunman opened fire in a South Carolina church, an attack that is being investigated as a hate crime.
In addition to heartbreak and anger, security was also visible at the gatherings.
As a precaution, the NYPD said it notified the Patrol Services Bureau, as well as Intelligence and Counter-Terrorism Bureaus, to pay special attention to any church locations throughout the city.
Meanwhile, many in Harlem Thursday night prayed for victims and denounced the violence. There was a vigil at the Abyssinian Baptist Church followed by a march.
Dozens marched, some from other locations, and a group from the Abyssinian Baptist Church, all ending at the First A.M.E. Church: Bethel in Harlem.
Suspected gunman Dylan Storm Roof, 21, was taken into custody during a traffic stop in Shelby, North Carolina, Thursday — a day after the massacre. Roof allegedly said he was at the church to shoot black people.
“I am so pleased that we were able to resolve this case quickly not only for the families, but for our community, for our state,” said Chief Gregory Mullen with the Charleston Police Department.
On Thursday night, the pain was evident in Harlem, prayers were many, and a message of support was clear.
“A house of prayer is supposed to be a sanctuary, a place of peace,” Harlem resident Landon Dais said.
There was also a moment of silence for the victims.
In a statement, the NYPD said: “Our Intelligence Bureau will continue to maintain liaison with the various law enforcement agencies investigating the Charleston incident and assess the NYPD response accordingly.”
The Department of Justice has opened a hate crime investigation into the South Carolina shooting.


PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]


PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit


DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says


New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]




Filed in: News 













 






Watch The CW Now!
See last night’s episodes now on The CW







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Children found wandering alone in the Bronx



More than 21 million affected by U.S. government data breach



Gov. Cuomo declines to name single mayoral accomplishment by de Blasio



Passengers stuck for 3 hours when train and rescue train break down





 












News

How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC


Brooklyn News

Emotional vigil held in Brooklyn for Charleston victims


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings


News

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community



 


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

‘Hate will not win': Victims’ families tell suspected church shooter they forgive him


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


Morning

S.C. deadly church shooting aftermath: Protecting religious institutions from hate groups



 


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

New Yorkers struggle to keep Harlem roots amid gentrification






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















