Manhunt underway for suspect accused of shooting, killing New Orleans police officer | myfox8.com 
Manhunt underway for suspect accused of shooting, killing New Orleans police officer | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 5:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

94°







94°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Manhunt underway for suspect accused of shooting, killing New Orleans police officer

Posted 8:03 pm, June 20, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
33-year-old Travis Boys 


×
Manhunt underway for suspect accused of shooting, killing New Orleans police officer


 33-year-old Travis Boys


NEW ORLEANS — A manhunt is underway in New Orleans after a suspect being transported to prison allegedly shot and killed the police officer who was driving him, officials said.
New Orleans police officer Daryle Holloway was shot in his patrol car while transporting 33-year-old Travis Boys on Saturday morning, police said. Holloway died at a hospital.
The prisoner was allegedly able to free himself from handcuffs, grab a weapon, and shoot Holloway as he drove, the New Orleans Fraternal Order of Police said, citing the police superintendent.
The initial investigation indicates that after Boys shot Holloway, the police vehicle crashed and the suspect fled, New Orleans police said in a statement.
Police said a manhunt was underway to capture Boys.
Police Superintendent Michael Harrison praised Holloway, a 22-year veteran of the force, and prayed for his family
“Officer Holloway was a dedicated police officer who proudly served his community for more than 20 years and was a father of three. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him,” the chief said.
Holloway, 45, was taking Boys from the police department to Orleans Parish Prison. Boys was arrested on outstanding warrants and also face a charge of aggravated battery, police said.
Crime Stoppers has offered a $10,000 reward for information leading to Boys’ re-apprehension.
“This despicable, cowardly act represents the lowest of the low,” New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu said. “We will bring together every law enforcement resource at our disposal to find, capture and prosecute the person for this heinous crime.”

29.951066
-90.071532




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



F-16 jet, Cessna plane collide near Charleston, SC; 2 dead



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Government data breach impacted 21.5 million



SC governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag



NC man visiting New Jersey could face prison time after police find handgun in car



Today at 5:00: Aftermath of Randleman wastewater spill





 












News

Prisoner accused of killing New Orleans police officer captured


News

New Orleans police officer shot and killed while in his car


News

16-year-old wearing bulletproof vest shoots, injures NC officer


News

Teen killed in Wake Forest officer-involved shooting


News

Google Earth offers new clues, raises questions in Natalee Holloway case



 


News

Arizona officer who drove into suspect justified, chief says


News

Man orders shrimp plate, then opens fire on students at a bus stop


News

2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody


News

Police identify suspect in officer-involved shooting at NC McDonald’s


News

Officer who stood on hood of car and shot, killed unarmed occupants found not guilty



 


News

4 charged in fatal shooting of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, policemen


News

Double murder, kidnapping suspect James Horn Jr. shot and killed


News

Suspect killed after opening fire on officers outside Dallas police headquarters






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,420 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















