Killings Add Painful Page to Storied History of Charleston Church - The New York Times 



Killings Add Painful Page to Storied History of Charleston Church - The New York Times







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









U.S.|Killings Add Painful Page to Storied History of Charleston Church
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1erskan




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





U.S. 
Killings Add Painful Page to Storied History of Charleston Church

By JONATHAN WEISMANJUNE 18, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






The Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney during a service at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston in 2012.

Credit
            Randall Hill/Reuters        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is one of the oldest, most storied black congregations in the South. Its members met in secret in the years when black churches were outlawed here before the Civil War, and it contains a shrine to one of its founders, who helped organize a slave revolt in 1822.So the mass shooting that took the lives of nine churchgoers, including a state senator who was pastor, Clementa C. Pinckney, had a particularly deep resonance here in this genteel city, proud and mindful of its history but still torn by race and class.“Christ said to Peter, ‘Upon this rock I will build my church,’” said Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, the highest-ranking African-American in the House. He flew to Charleston on Thursday morning to attend a prayer vigil for the shooting victims.“Emanuel A.M.E. Church is the rock upon which the A.M.E. Church throughout the South is built,” Mr. Clyburn said. “That church has more historic significance to Charleston than any other church in this community.”Intentionally or not, the gunman had found in Emanuel A.M.E., and in its 41-year-old pastor, rich symbols to attack with deadly racial hatred. Pastor Pinckney was a well-known civil rights leader in Charleston. He was elected to the South Carolina House at age 23, and then to the State Senate at age 27.After Walter Scott, an African-American, was shot in the back by a North Charleston police officer in April, Mr. Pinckney helped guide through the State Legislature a bill requiring officers to wear body cameras.Jaime Harrison, chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party and a friend of Mr. Pinckney’s since their teenage years, said all the young Democrats coming up together in the state looked up to Mr. Pinckney. “We all aspired to be like Clementa,” Mr. Harrison said.Mr. Pinckney was not a divisive figure, community and political leaders say. State Representative James E. Smith Jr., the minority leader and a Democrat who was elected to the State House at the same time as Mr. Pinckney, called him, “a giant voice for justice in South Carolina,” and a conciliatory leader, not a bomb thrower.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Tyler Jones, political director of the South Carolina House Democratic Caucus, said, “I have never heard anyone utter a negative word about Clem Pinckney, and that’s not an exaggeration.”Mr. Smith, along with others, including Mr. Clyburn, saw the true target as the church itself. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Many Ask, Why Not Call Church Shooting Terrorism?JUNE 18, 2015












Recalling Nine Spiritual Mentors, Gunned Down During Night of DevotionJUNE 18, 2015












Church Massacre Suspect Held as Charleston GrievesJUNE 18, 2015












After Charleston Shooting, a Sense at the White House of Horror, Loss and ResolveJUNE 18, 2015












Dylann Roof, Suspect in Charleston Shooting, Flew the Flags of White PowerJUNE 18, 2015







“It’s in the historic district,” Mr. Clyburn said. “It’s where people go when they’re touring the city. It’s right around where all the activity is. So he might have just stumbled upon the church — but I doubt it.”
Photo






Mourners placed ribbons outside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., on Thursday.

Credit
            Brendan Smialowski/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        


It is impossible to overestimate the importance of the church in the African-American South, said Edward Ball, author of “Slaves in the Family,” a history of Low Country South Carolina. Mr. Ball’s forefathers enslaved the forefathers of Emanuel A.M.E.’s leading parishioners.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
“This church is much more than a place where people sing gospel,” Mr. Ball said. “It’s tethered to the deep unconscious of the black community.”Charleston’s historic district has always been home to the city’s white elite, built on wealth generated by the slave trade and rice that was cultivated intensively with slave labor. Charleston was one of the richest cities in antebellum America, and old Charleston has long been known for its exclusivity. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related in Opinion











Op-Ed Contributor: No Sanctuary in CharlestonJUNE 18, 2015












Op-Ed Contributor: Henry Louis Gates: If Clementa Pinckney Had LivedJUNE 18, 2015







Many of the African-Americans who were able to remain in the historic district over the last century have been chased out more recently by gentrification and soaring property values.But Emanuel A.M.E. has remained firmly ensconced in what is known as the “Holy City,” a name inspired by all its church spires.With its prideful reminders of its legacy of rebellion, “Mother Emanuel,” as it is known by blacks here, is still “symbolically recognized by everyone as the thorn in the side of the white body — at the very center of town, the very center of white society,” Mr. Ball said. 
Continue reading the main story



                Violent History: Attacks on Black Churches            

                The killing of nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., is among a long list of attacks targeting predominantly black churches in the United States.            











In 1822, the authorities were tipped off before plans for the slave revolt could be put in effect; 313 suspected conspirators were arrested, and 35, including Denmark Vesey, the organizer who was a founder of the church, were executed. Angry whites in town burned the original church down.The church, rebuilt in 1891, holds that history dear. A memorial to Mr. Vesey within its Gothic Revival walls is a reminder not only of the revolt, but also of Charleston’s past.In the 1960s, the church was a center of civil rights organizing. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. spoke at the church in 1962.In his remarks on the killings on Thursday, President Obama acknowledged the church’s special history.“This is a place of worship that was founded by African-Americans seeking liberty,” he said. “This is a church that was burned to the ground because its worshipers worked to end slavery. When there were laws banning all-black church gatherings, they conducted services in secret. When there was a nonviolent movement to bring our country closer in line with our highest ideals, some of our brightest leaders spoke and led marches from this church’s steps.”He added, “This is a sacred place in the history of Charleston and in the history of America.”
Photo






A black cloth and a single rose in a vase on Mr. Pinckney's desk at the statehouse on Thursday.

Credit
            Rainier Ehrhardt/Associated Press        


On Thursday, Emanuel was off limits, cordoned off from Charleston’s citizens with police tape and emergency vehicles. The city’s leaders and citizens gathered at Morris Brown A.M.E. Church, about a half-mile away, for the prayer vigil.The walk between the two churches along King Street leads past trendy galleries, new and trendy restaurants and bars, historical markers and the old American Theater, whose marquee read, “Pray for our Mother Emanuel AME Church.”Inside Morris, members of the clergy spoke effusively of unity and vowed not to let hate divide the city. Blacks, whites, Jews and Christians jammed the aisles, prayed and sang. A street minister, Mark Irvin, implored “all European-Americans, all non-African-Americans, whether you think your ancestors are innocent or guilty, bring yourselves to ask forgiveness from the Lord.”Bishop John Richard Bryant looked out on the multiracial, multiethnic throng from the pulpit and pronounced: “You look like what we in the Low Country call a quilt. You’re patches. You all fit somewhere.”But in front of the church, under a sweltering midday sun, after the clergy members had gone inside, an angrier group of young men took over. The memory of Walter Scott’s shooting is still fresh. They held handwritten poster boards declaring, “Black lives matter.”Terrence Meyers, 34, held one such sign at King and Morris streets as the crowd emptied out of Morris A.M.E., chased out by a bomb threat that seemed to underscore the angrier tone outside the church. He said that as dozens of police cars were screaming toward Emanuel A.M.E. on Wednesday night, he was pulled aside and ticketed by a policeman for riding his bicycle home from work on the sidewalk without a headlight.He was still furious the next day.“There’s no such thing as peace, not now,” he said. “Peace is over.”


Jason Horowitz contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on June 19, 2015, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Scene of Carnage Has Long History of Pain, Pride and Dignity .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












