Man, 82, fatally shot on eastside of Indianapolis, vehicle of interest identified | Fox 59 
Man, 82, fatally shot on eastside of Indianapolis, vehicle of interest identified | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News Live at Five 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Man, 82, fatally shot on eastside of Indianapolis, vehicle of interest identified

Posted 8:23 AM, April 25, 2015, by Sabrina Adams - Assignment Editor, Updated at 10:59pm, April 25, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





Vehicle of interest
 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (April 25, 2015) – Robert Woods, 82, was murdered inside his eastside Indianapolis residence Saturday morning.
The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department was dispatched to the 1400 block of North Edmondson Avenue on a report of a person shot just after 7:30 a.m. Woods lived in Crestwood Village Senior Community.
When officers arrived, they located Woods inside of his residence with multiple gunshot wounds. Woods was declared dead at the scene
Police say shots were fired from outside the building and went through a sliding glass door. Woods was hit multiple times.
Investigators say a shots fired call was reported on Friday night. When they responded, they did not find anything.
“They were not flagged down by anyone stating that anyone had been shot. They were called back and discovered some shell casings,” said IMPD Public Information Officer, Lt. Richard Riddle.
Homicide detectives have surveillance video of a vehicle of interest in this morning’s incident. They are looking for a silver or gray Jeep Cherokee. Police say it was seen on video entering the area of the apartment complex just minutes before the shots fired call.
“We’re certainly concerned that individuals who are willing to shoot into a residence and an 82-year-old victim was struck and killed as a result of the shooting. That causes us concern and that’s why we’re pleading with the public for anyone who has information on this to please give us a call,” Lt. Riddle said.
If you know anything you’re asked to call Crime Stoppers at 317-262-TIPS.
 
 



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












News

Murder of 82-year-old man may have been retaliation


News

One man dead, one in serious condition after two separate shootings on far east side


Crimetracker News

Two people shot on Indianapolis’ east side; police searching for suspects’ vehicle


News

IMPD officer opens fire after avoiding speeding car; driver arrested on OWI charge


News

Three people in handcuffs after domestic dispute turns into vehicle chase



 


Crimetracker News

Police investigate shooting death of 19-year-old on far eastside


News

Police identify man fatally shot early Thursday morning


News

Police investigating drive-by shooting that killed one man, injured 3 others


Crimetracker News

Police still looking for suspect in deadly road rage shooting


Crimetracker News

Nine people shot in in two days as violent Memorial Day carries into Tuesday



 


Crimetracker News

Suspect identified in shooting that injured 2 women, 3 children


News

Coroner identifies young man who was shot and killed on northeast side


News

Suspect arrested after teen dies from being shot multiple times on east side






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















