Police investigate reported attempted abduction on south side of Indianapolis | Fox 59 
Police investigate reported attempted abduction on south side of Indianapolis | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News Live at Five 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police investigate reported attempted abduction on south side of Indianapolis

Posted 12:17 PM, May 14, 2015, by Matt Adams - Web Producer, Updated at 06:55pm, May 14, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS (May 14, 2015) – Indianapolis Metropolitan police are investigating an attempted abduction on the south side of Indianapolis.
According to IMPD, a 12-year-old boy left home around 8 a.m. Thursday and walked to his bus stop in the area of Yoke Street and Stanley Avenue. He saw a green Jeep with a red 2-inch pinstripe around the vehicle. He also said the Jeep had rusty wheels.
The vehicle circled the black a few times. The boy said a man in his late 20s to early 30s gave him “weird looks” as he passed by. The boy described him as a white male, clean shaven, with short honey-brown hair.
Once the boy arrived at the bus stop, the man offered him a candy bar. After declining the offer, the boy said the man reached out from his driver’s side window and grabbed him around the wrist. The boy broke free, ran to a friend’s house and called police.
On Thursday afternoon, an IPS police vehicle sat outside the bus stop. School officials say they have added extra police presence in the area after the attempted abduction. They say student safety is a top priority.
Neighbors say this is a quiet community full of kids. They’re concerned the man may have been targeting the boy.
“It’s very scary. I want it to get resolved. Nothing happens like this around here. It’s very scary, especially when you know kids that are on that bus stop,” said neighbor Sara Kidwell.
The bus stop location has also been a concern for neighbors. It’s near an alley and directly across from railroad tracks where neighbors say is a hang-out spot for drug users. Parents say they will use this situation as a lesson for their kids about stranger danger.
“Don’t get near the car. Don’t give them a chance to get close. Just get home and tell mom,” neighbor, Paula Shoultz said.

39.726286
-86.146615









Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












News

Several law enforcement agencies target Southwest side for ‘Guns, drugs and warrants’


Crimetracker News

Indianapolis teen fights off attacker while walking on Butler campus trail


Crimetracker News

Police identify person of interest in shooting that left boy paralyzed


News

Suspect dies after multi-state, multi-county chase and hostage situation


News

Suspect in police chase causes fatal accident near Fountain Square; woman killed identified



 


News

Man in critical condition after police-involved shooting on Indy’s south side


Crimetracker News

Nine people shot in in two days as violent Memorial Day carries into Tuesday


News

Person shot in carjacking on near east side of Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Man arrested in downtown Indianapolis after two-county chase stemming from road rage incident


News

Police searching for suspect who robbed man in wheelchair on northwest side of Indianapolis



 


Crimetracker News

Man turns himself in after hit-and-run that critically injured woman


News

Man hit and killed by school bus on south side of Indianapolis


National & World News

Owner spots his stolen truck in rearview mirror; arrest made






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















