Police investigating fatal crash on south side of Indianapolis | Fox 59 
Police investigating fatal crash on south side of Indianapolis | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News Live at Five 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police investigating fatal crash on south side of Indianapolis

Posted 11:32 AM, April 30, 2015, by Matt Adams - Web Producer, Updated at 03:39pm, April 30, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 


Photos below courtesy of the Indianapolis Fire Department:

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (3 images)





 


INDIANAPOLIS (April 30, 2015) — Police dispatchers said a person died after a crash Thursday morning on the south side of Indianapolis.
The crash happened at West Southport Road and State Road 37 around 11 a.m. Dispatchers from the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department reported a fatality.
Officials with the Indianapolis Fire Department (IFD) say that a white Ford van was headed southbound on State Road 37 when a 2008 red Buick, traveling northbound, turned west onto Southport Road and collided with the van.
The driver of the van, a man in his 50s, was taken to Eskenazi Health in good condition.
The driver of the Buick, a 61-year-old woman, was taken to Eskenazi Health in serious condition. The passenger in the Buick, a 72-year-old woman, was pronounced deceased at the scene.
Witnesses say that new lights in the intersection may have confused drivers. IMPD is investigating the crash.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












News

Head-on crash on south side sends one to hospital in serious condition


News

Suspect in police chase causes fatal accident near Fountain Square; woman killed identified


News

UPDATE: Woman, 64, killed after car, box truck crash in Noblesville


News

Police: Truck driver was ‘messing with his radio’ before crash that shut down I-65


Crimetracker News

Suspect faces a dozen charges after police chase, fatal crash



 


News

Indiana State Police investigating fatal crash on I-465


News

Woman injured after hit-and-run crash in Crawfordsville


News

Man hit and killed by school bus on south side of Indianapolis


News

Police search for shooters in two morning shootings


News

Two people hurt after pickup truck, bicycle crash in Johnson County



 


News

Driver arrested after crash injures 6 children, 1 adult in Fishers


News

SUV, bus collide on west side; 2 people injured


News

Police open criminal investigation after fatal fire on near west side






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















