Profiles of the Victims - The New York Times 



Profiles of the Victims - The New York Times




Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content











			                Live Coverage			        
|
        Profiles of the Victims        
    



Advertisement





Search
 
Log In
0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go








 











U.S. Charleston, S.C., Church Shooting: Live Updates



						The New York Times					
June 18, 2015
June 18, 2015 











Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



What We Know 

A gunman  opened fire at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on Wednesday evening, killing nine people, including the pastor.
The police arrested a suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, 21, on Thursday in Shelby, N.C. He was taken to the jail in Charleston County, S.C. Officials said Mr. Roof would make a court appearance on Friday afternoon.
Federal and state officials have opened a hate crime investigation into the attack.





Jun 18, 2015
Jun 18, 2015 



Profiles of the Victims 
The county coroner has identified the nine victims of the Charleston church shooting. They ranged in age from 26 to 87, and include a librarian, a legislator and several ministers.
Rev. Clementa Carlos Pinckney, 41, pastor of Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, where the shooting occurred, began preaching at 13 and was elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives at 23, becoming the youngest African-American to be elected to the State Legislature.
Cynthia Hurd, 54, served as the regional manager of the St. Andrews branch of the county library, a job she loved because it brought her closer to people.
DePayne Middleton Doctor, 49, was the mother of four daughters – the youngest is in junior high school and the oldest is in college.
Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45, was a coach for the girls’ track and field team and a speech therapist at Goose Creek High School. She was on the church staff.
Tywanza Sanders, 26, had graduated from Allen University, a historically black college, as a business administration major last year and was looking for employment.
Ethel Lee Lance, 70, was a sexton at the church and had worked there for more than three decades. Her cousin, Susie Jackson, was a longtime church member and died along with her.
Susie Jackson, 87.
Rev. Daniel L. Simmons Sr., 75, a retired pastor from another church in Charleston, attended Emanuel A.M.E. every Sunday for services and Wednesdays for bible study, according to his daughter-in-law, Arcelia Simmons of Newport News, Va.
Myra Thompson, 59, was the wife of the Rev. Anthony Thompson, vicar of Holy Trinity Reformed Episcopal Church in Charleston.


 









Related Coverage



Church Massacre Suspect Held as Charleston Grieves

						After a 14-hour search, the suspect was caught some 200 miles away from the historic black church where nine people were killed.						
							U.S.							June 23, 2015





The Shootings in a Charleston Church

						Where the attack happened, some statistics behind hate crimes, and maps of Charleston’s shifting population.						
							U.S.							June 23, 2015





With Charleston Shooting, a Time to Stop Teaching Children About the ‘History’ of Racial Violence

						How many of your children have come home from school to tell you that black people “used to” be treated differently?						
							U.S.							June 22, 2015



 
 







Advertisement










                    © 2015

 The New York Times Company




Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












