Police identify teenage victim after fatal shooting on east side | Fox 59 
Police identify teenage victim after fatal shooting on east side | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 News Live at Five 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police identify teenage victim after fatal shooting on east side

Posted 8:30 PM, May 3, 2015, by Lindy Thackston, Updated at 12:27pm, May 4, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (May 4, 2015) – A teenager was shot and killed on the city’s far east side Sunday evening.
Indianapolis Metropolitan police identified the victim as 18-year-old Darrius Taylor of Indianapolis. Officials at Warren Central said Taylor was a student there and released the following statement:
“The entire Warren Central community of administrators, faculty, staff and students are saddened at the recent news of the tragic death of one of our students. It is at times like this that we are reminded to remain vigilant and emboldened in our efforts to ensure the safety and protection of all our children. Our heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out to the family of Darrius Taylor.”
IMPD officers say several neighbors called 911 around 7:45 p.m. after hearing gunshots in the area of East 25th Street and North Post Road.
Officers found Taylor with multiple gunshot wounds to the upper part of his body. They tried first aid, but he died on the scene.
Police say neighbors saw a vehicle flee the area after they heard gunshots.
Neighbors said Taylor didn’t live at the home but was hanging with friends. They say there is always a lot of activity at that particular home.
“They will pull a history of the area and this particular address,” said IMPD’s Christopher Wilburn. “They will comb through their reports. Once they get the victim identified, they will do their due diligence and look through reports that he may be involved in and try to piece together as much as they can.
“The garage door appears to be open, so that is part of the investigation. The lights are on and nobody is home, so we are going to obviously get a search warrant to go through the home.”
No suspect has been identified and detectives do not have a motive. Police say this does not appear to be a random act.
Detectives urge anyone with information to call Crime Stoppers at (317) 262-TIPS (8477). Callers may also text “INDYCS” plus tip information to 274627 (CRIMES).



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Taking a look at the speed traps on I-69 in Indianapolis



Look out for violent paving imposter, says BBB



Carmel Fire Department searches for Good Samaritans who saved runner on Monon Trail



Unruly suspect shot by sheriff’s deputies at local park





 












News

Indianapolis high school senior latest victim of teen gun violence


Crimetracker News

Police shoot suspect on city’s near east side


Crimetracker News

Man dead after dispute leads to east side shooting


News

UPDATE: Teenager fatally shot on city’s north west side


News

One man dead, one in serious condition after two separate shootings on far east side



 


News

Police investigating drive-by shooting that killed one man, injured 3 others


Crimetracker News

Two people shot on Indianapolis’ east side; police searching for suspects’ vehicle


News

IMPD officer placed on paid administrative leave


News

Teen shot multiple times on Indy’s east side early Wednesday morning


News

Victim identified in fatal northwest side shooting



 


News

UPDATE: Police identify man fatally shot Friday morning at east side motel


Crimetracker

UPDATE: Man killed, another transported to hospital after shootings on near east side


News

Police investigating double shooting on far east side






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,647 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















