One of the victims in South Carolina church massacre has ties to New Jersey | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
One of the victims in South Carolina church massacre has ties to New Jersey | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

78°







78°


Low 72°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  86°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 Flash Flood Watch in effect for parts of New York area						








 







One of the victims in South Carolina church massacre has ties to New Jersey

Posted 8:19 PM, June 19, 2015, by Nicole Johnson, Updated at 08:28pm, June 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 





NEWARK, NJ — Mark Jones, older brother of Reverend Sharonda Singleton can’t believe she was one of nine people shot to death at Emmanuel AME Church in South Carolina.
The accused killer, Dylann Roof is in police custody but the community, the families and just everyday citizens are still trying to find answers to why the shooting happened.
Jones said during a PIX 11 interview,
“I could sit here and say racism or hate and be angry but I will tell you like my sister would have this was not White or black, Yellow or brown this was a troubled soul.”
Singleton was a mother of three, her oldest son attends college at Charleston Southern University, Friday his classmates offered him words of encouragement.
Chris Singleton said “I just think about her smile. She smiles 24 / 7. That’s what I’m just thinking about to push me on to do stuff like this; just think about her smile.”
Singleton was raised in Newark New Jersey where dozens of people gathered for a prayer vigil Friday evening.



Filed in: New Jersey, News 













 






BUCKLE UP BOSTON! Yankees take on the Red Sox, Friday at 7 on PIX11
Don’t miss this key game in the ancient rivalry between the Yanks and the Sox, exclusively on PIX11. Catch the pre-game at 6:30 p.m. 







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Children found wandering alone in the Bronx



More than 21 million affected by U.S. government data breach



Gov. Cuomo declines to name single mayoral accomplishment by de Blasio



Passengers stuck for 3 hours when train and rescue train break down





 












News

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

		27 mins ago	

S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate battle flag from capitol grounds


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source



 


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


Manhattan

Black Ink responds to woman’s lawsuit: Tattoo problems are your fault, not ours


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Pint-sized ballerinas put on big show despite disabilities



 


New Jersey

An anti-Semitic symbol is found on a mosque, highlighting a rise in hate crimes


New Jersey On-Air Seen On TV

Shark attacks: How likely are they?


News

‘Hate will not win': Victims’ families tell suspected church shooter they forgive him






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















