Man wanted for shooting 2 arrested in Greensboro | myfox8.com 
Man wanted for shooting 2 arrested in Greensboro | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 5:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

94°







94°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Man wanted for shooting 2 arrested in Greensboro

Posted 8:52 am, April 20, 2015, by Web Staff 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Jermarise Dejuann Bolden 


×
Man wanted for shooting 2 arrested in Greensboro


 Jermarise Dejuann Bolden


HILLSBOROUGH, N.C. — Police have arrested a suspect who allegedly shot two people in December.
Jermarise Dejuann Bolden, 24, was charged with two counts of attempted robbery with a dangerous weapon and assault with a deadly weapon with the intent to kill or inflict serious injury.
On Dec. 23, 2014, police responded to a report of an armed robbery on the 200 block of Torain Street in Hillsborough.
The two victims told police Bolden tried to rob them at gunpoint. One of the victims then attempted to grab the gun from Bolden.
That’s when shots were fired.
One victim was shot in the hand and the other was struck in the back by the same bullet.
The first victim eventually gained control of the gun and shot Bolden in the leg.
Both victims were taken to the University of North Carolina Hospital and were treated for their wounds.
After an investigation, the U.S. Marshals Joint Fugitive Task Force discovered that Bolden was staying at 5024 Hilltop Road in Greensboro.
He was taken into custody on Friday and is now being held in the Guilford County Jail.
Bolden is being held under a $100,000 secured bond.

36.090359
-79.110537









Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



F-16 jet, Cessna plane collide near Charleston, SC; 2 dead



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Government data breach impacted 21.5 million



SC governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag



NC man visiting New Jersey could face prison time after police find handgun in car



Today at 5:00: Aftermath of Randleman wastewater spill





 












News

Shooting suspect still sought after wild afternoon in Greensboro neighborhood


News

Milwaukee man wanted in killings after toddler fatally run over kills himself in Chicago


News

Greensboro man arrested in Fourth of July shooting


News

Man arrested in connection with Winston-Salem home break-in where children nearly shot


News

Two men shot near Greensboro motel, both taken to hospital with injuries



 


News

1 suspect arrested, 2 on the run after armed robbery in Burlington


News

Archdale man accused of shooting, killing man after argument at mobile home park


News

Officer who stood on hood of car and shot, killed unarmed occupants found not guilty


News

Man shot by armed robber at Greensboro gas station


News

Baltimore police: Reports of shooting unfounded



 


News

Gruesome weekend for Chicago leaves city, police chief reeling


News

Police arrest suspects accused of robbing High Point grocery store at gunpoint


News

Suspect in Wayne County Community College killing captured sleeping on beach






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,420 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















