Gruesome weekend for Chicago leaves city, police chief reeling | myfox8.com 
Gruesome weekend for Chicago leaves city, police chief reeling | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 5:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

94°







94°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Gruesome weekend for Chicago leaves city, police chief reeling

Posted 5:58 am, July 6, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Chicago skyline aerial view at dusk. 


×
Gruesome weekend for Chicago leaves city, police chief reeling


 Chicago skyline aerial view at dusk.


CHICAGO, Ill. — When a city has seven killings in two days, including the death of a 7-year-old boy, something is systemically wrong.
That’s what Chicago’s police chief said after a spate of bloodshed that tormented the city over the weekend.
“We need to repair a broken system,” Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy told reporters Sunday. “Criminals don’t feel the repercussions of the justice system.”
Take, for example, the death of 7-year-old Amari Brown. McCarthy said the boy was the unintended victim of bullet meant for his father, a ranking gang member.
The system failed Amari, the police chief said. Amari’s father, who has been arrested 45 times and has a lengthy criminal record, should not have been on the streets, McCarthy said.
“If Mr. Brown is in custody, his son is alive,” McCarthy said.
At a vigil Sunday for Amari, family friend Michael Singleton told the media that unless real changes are made, the cycle of violence will continue.
“All of you all will be back out here next week, on another corner, filming the same thing, from somebody else, saying exactly what I’m saying,” he said.
“So I’m tired of doing news conferences. I’m tired of listening to them. I’m tired of talking about them. Until we make a better decision as a community and as a city, this is all that’s going to happen.”
A gruesome weekend
Even with a 30 percent increase in the number of police on the streets over the holiday weekend, seven people were killed between Friday morning and Sunday afternoon, the superintendent said.
They were among at least 47 people who have been shot in Chicago since Friday.
And since Friday morning, Chicago police have recovered one illegal gun per hour across the city, McCarthy said.
“We must stem the flow of guns into the city,” he said.
This year’s statistics may sound staggering, but compared with last year, the number of violent incidents is actually down. For the same period in 2014, there were 64 shootings, 69 nonfatal victims in those incidents and 15 slayings.
McCarthy said he is incredibly proud of the men and women of his department amid the challenges they face every day.
But “we need some help here, folks,” McCarthy said. “We have to fix this broken system.”

41.878114
-87.629798




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: Chicago 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



F-16 jet, Cessna plane collide near Charleston, SC; 2 dead



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Government data breach impacted 21.5 million



SC governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag



NC man visiting New Jersey could face prison time after police find handgun in car



Today at 5:00: Aftermath of Randleman wastewater spill





 












News

‘Today is not a good day:’ Driver, teen shot to death after vehicle hits and kills 2-year-old


News

Police: Woman held in box for months found dead, man sought


News

Milwaukee man wanted in killings after toddler fatally run over kills himself in Chicago


News

Bobbi Kristina Brown’s brain damage ‘irreversible,’ grandmother says


News

Six Baltimore police officers charged in Freddie Gray’s death



 


News

Photo shows 2 Chicago cops posing over black man wearing deer antlers


News

Father charged in infant’s death after jumping off bridge


News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

Man admits to beating mother to death with baseball bat over college grades


News

Teen speaks out after recording viral pool party video



 


News

What happened in the van? Focus turns to Freddie Gray’s ride to police station


News

Mother blames spider after toddler daughter is beaten to death


News

Greensboro brothers receive apology from city, charges dropped






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,420 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















