FBI Director Says Charleston Shooting Not Terrorism | Mediaite

FBI Director Says Charleston Shooting Not Terrorism | Mediaite 







Mediaite
The Mary Sue
Styleite
The Braiser
SportsGrid
Gossip Cop









Jesse Ventura Takes the Republican Presidential Field to School





House GOP Withdraws Confederate Flag Amendment After Backlash





Jeb and Hillary Battle over Bush's Claim Americans Should 'Work Longer Hours'





Fox's Jesse Watters Confronted San Fran Board of Supervisors over Kate Steinle's Death





ESPN Reporter Under Fire for Posting Athlete's Medical Charts




















Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook

 
 Menu





TV
 Online
 Print
 Ranking
 Columns
 Jobs









Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook









FBI Director Says Charleston Shooting Not Terrorism
by Andrew Husband | 3:25 pm, June 20th, 2015








 




















 

In the wake of the Charleston church shooting in South Carolina, two particular phrases have been used in the media to describe the attack — “hate crime” and “terrorist act.” Soon after the initial reports of the tragedy, the authorities threw both around when discussing the matter with reporters, sometimes letting their emotions get the better of them. That is, what Dylann Roof did was terrible, but until the official investigation is complete, the use of either descriptor won’t be completely accurate.
But that hasn’t stopped FBI Director James Comey from discounting the use of “terrorism” and “terrorist act” to describe Roof’s crimes. At a press conference in Baltimore on Saturday, Comey said that the agency was currently investigating whether or not Roof committed a hate crime, but not terrorism:
“Terrorism is act of violence done or threatens to in order to try to influence a public body or citizenry so it’s more of a political act and again based on what I know so more I don’t see it as a political act.”
The Bureau has a rather large and ever-evolving code of definitions for the various kinds of terrorism and terrorist acts. However, the basic definition is quite simple:
The unlawful use of force or violence against persons or property to intimidate or coerce a government, the civilian population, or any segment thereof in furtherance of political or social objectives.”
Check out the clip below, courtesy of CNN:




Please enable Javascript to watch.

[h/t KTUL]
[Image via screengrab]
— —
>> Follow Andrew Husband (@AndrewHusband) on Twitter
 

Follow Mediaite


Follow on Google Plus
Follow on Pinterest
Follow @mediaite
Like us on Facebook

 
filed under
Charleston, dylann roof, FBI, James Comey, shooting, Terrorism, word crimes







































More from around the web











Mediaite Newsletter
Sign up for our newsletter to receive Mediaite in your inbox, daily!









Around the Web





Most Popular








Trump Steamrolls NBC Reporter, Takes Shots at Krauthammer and Jonah Goldberg




WaPo Op-Ed Blames Amy Schumer for ‘Inspiring’ Charleston Shooter




Hillary Deletes Photo of Handshake With Potential Voter, Possibly After Noticing His Tattoo




Ariana Grande Licks Donut, Says ‘I Hate America,’ Cancels MLB All-Star Performance




Why Did the Feds Raid the Home of Jared from Subway?


 







Follow Us





Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.







 
















© 2015 Mediaite, LLC |
			About Us |
			Advertise |
			Newsletter |
			Jobs |
			Privacy |
			User Agreement |
			Disclaimer |
			Contact  |
			Archives |
			 RSS

Dan Abrams, Founder

























 










