9 dead in mass shooting at Charleston, South Carolina church, police say | Q13 FOX News 
9 dead in mass shooting at Charleston, South Carolina church, police say | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Replay: Q13FOX News This Morning 

Q13 FOX TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

78°







78°


Low 60°
High 86°





Fri


					60°  80°
					


Sat


					59°  75°
					


Sun


					60°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 



 


 34-year-old woman killed in ice cave collapse identified						








 







9 dead in mass shooting at Charleston, South Carolina church, police say

Posted 8:25 PM, June 17, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 09:56pm, June 17, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePinterestEmail 


From NDN
CLICK HERE FOR AN UPDATED STORY >>
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Nine people were killed and one injured in a shooting at a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina, a source close to the investigation told CNN.
The suspect, described as a white man, is still at large.
The shooting took place Wednesday evening at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, the oldest AME church in the South.
“It’s really bad. It’s a very bad scene,” local pastor Thomas Dixon said.
“Apparently the person just entered the church and opened fire. That part has not been fully articulated on what happened yet … they are still looking for the suspect.”
Search on for suspect
Police said the suspect in the shooting is a clean-shaven white man in his 20s, with a slender build. He was wearing a gray sweatshirt, blue jeans and boots.
The department asked anyone with information to call 911 dispatchers
“While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we’ll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another,” South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said.
Historic significance
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church was formed in 1816 when African-American members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church formed their own congregation after a dispute over burial grounds.
Six years later, one of the church founders was implicated in a slave revolt plot. He wasn’t convicted.
During the case, the church was burned to the ground. It was rebuilt in 1834.
Heavy police presence
Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement.
“Like everybody out here, we’re sick to our stomachs that this could happen in a church,” Rep. Dave Mack, a friend of the church’s pastor, told CNN affiliate WCSC.
Corey Wessenger, who was standing across the street from the church, said the area was swarming with law enforcement.
“I just saw a group of about 40 people escorted by cops,” Wessenger told CNN by phone.
Community members gathered in a prayer circle just down the street from the scene.
Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush canceled a scheduled town hall in Charleston on Thursday “due to the tragic events unfolding in South Carolina tonight.”

32.787485
-79.933057





		Mother Emanuel AME Church, 110 Calhoun Street, Charleston, SC 29401	



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



 



			4 comments		




 

Jerome Almon

Who’s to blame-look no further than Jay Z, Al Sharpton, the DOJ, and all the other fools Blacks follow
http://theopenlettertoblacks.simplesite.com/




							June 17, 2015 at 10:58 PM						

Reply







 

jimnjoy

Some people are already calling this a hate crime.  If I remember correctly, the mentally ill guy who shot Reagan was trying to impress Jodie Foster.
Nothing would surprise me.




							June 18, 2015 at 5:29 AM						

Reply







 

john zhang (@johnzhang5307)

Why do they immediately say it’s a racial crime? The guy just might be a psycho that would’ve shot anybody he saw! If a black guy shoots 9 white people race is never even mentioned! This victim mentality is what fuels all of this BS!
When we elected President Obama, weren’t we promised “hope and change”?  It seems like his years as president have only torn our nation apart.  
We now have race riots in our streets.  I’ve never seen a country more divided. We all hate each other now.
They say a good economy cures all.  Many of our citizens have had their jobs taken away along with their health insurance.  The middle class is shrinking and its not getting any better.
Obama and Co have destroyed everything they’ve tried “to fix”.  My health insurance is $450/month, my taxes are closing in on 50% (in NYC), and even my subway pass is now over $100/month (in NYC). Stuff that is still private enterprise is super cheap. Car insurance ($25/month from Insurance Panda), cell phone ($22/month from T Mobile), and gym ($15/month from Planet Fitness).   
We have become a very angry country. Everyone is only out for themselves, no sense of community, no respectable dialogue on any issue, talking heads shouting down opposing views. Very sad.




							June 18, 2015 at 6:21 AM						

Reply







 

Dan Eitreim

This is a tragedy! I’ve never understood the motivation behind all these wackos that feel the need to get some notoriety by killing others. I can’t help wondering how being detained and questioned will affect the life of that photographer who just happened to be wearing the wrong outfit!  It shouldn’t, but you know that tons of people will see him in handcuffs but not read far enough to see that he was released!  Here’s an interesting article about the pastor that was killed…
http://theprosays.com/wp-content/plugins/clickpopengage/pop.php?id=2




							June 18, 2015 at 10:58 AM						

Reply











 






 Q13 FOX NEWS AT 11
Tracking Tomorrow Tonight. 
It’s 30 minutes focused exclusively on how tonight’s developing news will impact you tomorrow. 
And how the weather you felt today will affect what you see outside in the morning.
Q13 FOX News at 11







 

 


Popular



Disturbing texts reveal final moments before father throws baby from bridge



Suspect leads police to remains of Justin Morris, victim in alleged ‘Frying Pan Murder’



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking







 


Latest News



National Weather Service issues ominous reminder about Great Seattle Fire of 1889



Revoke Bill Cosby’s Medal of Freedom award, rape survivor group petitions



Can computer glitches like the one that took down NYSE be prevented?



Hear from the local company making body cams for law enforcement





 












National & World News

9 dead in black church shooting that police call a hate crime; shooter at large


National & World News

Dylann Storm Roof, suspect in church shooting, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

9 killed in what officials call a hate crime at historic church; shooter at large


National & World News

Quick-thinking woman helps cops capture Charleston church shooting suspect


National & World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police name suspect in Charleston church shooting



 


National & World News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


National & World News

Details emerge about Charleston church shooting suspect Dylan Storm Roof


National & World News

Dylann Roof allegedly confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


National & World News

Lightning may have caused South Carolina church fire, FBI says


National & World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm



 


National & World News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


National & World News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


National & World News

Victims’ families confront accused church shooter: ‘May God have mercy on you’






 





Mobile AppsNews App (iOS)
News App (Android)
Weather App (iOS)
Weather App (Android)




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts














































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















