Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina | whotv.com 
Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina | whotv.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Noon 

WHO-HD Channel 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






whotv.com

 Menu

News
Mega Doppler-S
Sports
On 13
Contests
Events




Weather 

79°







79°


Low 63°
High 78°





Fri


					71°  83°
					


Sat


					72°  90°
					


Sun


					71°  92°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina

Posted 10:25 am, June 18, 2015, by CNN, Updated at 12:50pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleEmailRedditTumblr 



CHARLESTON, South Carolina (CNN) — [Latest developments]
• Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been taken into custody in Shelby, North Carolina, law enforcement officers said.
• Roof, 21, of Lexington, South Carolina, is the suspect in Wednesday’s deadly shooting at the Emanuel AME Church, Charleston police said Thursday.
• Witnesses say the gunman stood up and said he was there “to shoot black people,” a law enforcement official said. The shooter is also thought to have used a handgun, according to the official.
[Full story]
They got him.
The man suspected of killing nine people Wednesday night at a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina, was arrested Thursday morning about 245 miles (395 kilometers) away in Shelby, North Carolina, law enforcement authorities said.
Dylann Roof, 21, of Lexington, South Carolina, was taken into custody without incident about 11:15 a.m. during a traffic stop, Charleston police Chief Greg Mullen said Thursday morning. He said local police were acting on a BOLO (be-on-the-lookout) notice that included a vehicle description, the license tag and the suspect’s name.
Roof was armed with a gun when he was arrested, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the investigation. It’s not clear if it’s the same firearm he allegedly used in the shooting.
A senior law enforcement source told CNN the suspect’s father had recently bought him a .45-caliber gun for his 21st birthday.
President Barack Obama mourned the violence and the victims, saying, “Any death of this sort is a tragedy. Any shooting involving multiple victims is a tragedy. There is something particularly heartbreaking about death happening in a place in which we seek solace, we seek peace.”
The slayings took place inside the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, near the heart of Charleston’s tourist district. The man spent an hour in a prayer meeting before he opened fire, Mullen said Thursday morning.
A law enforcement official says witnesses told them the gunman stood up and said he was there “to shoot black people.”
Police were searching for information about Roof.
He was charged earlier this year on a trespassing charge in Lexington County, South Carolina. According to an arrest warrant, Roof was approached by police after a store complained about him.
After a search, police found an unlabeled pill bottle with “multiple orange in color strips” believed to be suboxone, a drug used to relieve painkiller addiction. Roof told police that a friend gave him the drugs.
Authorities are investigating whether Roof (whose last name is rhymes with “cough”) had links to hate groups.
A picture of him on social media showed him wearing a jacket with what appear to be the flags of apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that was ruled by a white minority until it became independent in 1980 and changed its name to Zimbabwe.
Six females and three males were killed in the church, Mullen said. Among the victims was the church’s politically active pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney.
Pinckney was also a state senator and one of the black community’s spokesmen after the slaying of an unarmed man by a North Charleston police officer this year.
Allen University in Columbia, South Carolina, issued a news release identifying a victim as Tywanza Sanders, a 2014 graduate.
Three people survived, including a woman who received a chilling message from the shooter.
“Her life was spared, and (she was) told, ‘I’m not going to kill you, I’m going to spare you, so you can tell them what happened,’ ” Charleston NAACP President Dot Scott told CNN. She said she heard this from the victims’ family members.
Federal authorities have opened a hate crime investigation into the shooting at the oldest AME church in the South, the Department of Justice said.
“The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate,” Charleston Mayor Joe Riley said.
There were 13 people inside the church when the shooting happened — the shooter, the nine people who were killed and three survivors, South Carolina state Sen. Larry Grooms, who was briefed by law enforcement, told CNN. Two of the survivors were not harmed, he said.
It was not clear if the man targeted any individual.
“We don’t know if anybody was targeted other than the church itself,” Mullen said.
Historic significance
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church has been a presence in Charleston since 1816, when African-American members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church formed their own congregation after a dispute over burial grounds. Known as “Mother Emanuel,” it’s been the headquarters for civil rights activity over the decades.
It was burned to the ground at one point but was rebuilt. Throughout its history, it overcame obstacle after obstacle — destroyed by an earthquake, banned by the state. But its church members persevered, making it the largest African-American church in terms of seating space in Charleston today.
A call for healing
Authorities said they were shocked not only by the killings but that the violence occurred in a house of worship.
“People in prayer Wednesday evening. A ritual, a coming together, praying, worshiping God. An awful person to come in and shoot them is inexplicable,” Mayor Riley said.
The killing put the nation’s spotlight once again on the Charleston region. Several months ago, Walter Scott, an unarmed black man, was fatally shot in the back by a North Charleston police officer, a killing that was captured on video.
Pinckney backed a bill to make body cameras mandatory for all police officers in South Carolina.
“Body cameras help to record what happens. It may not be the golden ticket, the golden egg, the end-all-fix-all, but it helps to paint a picture of what happens during a police stop,” Pinckney said in April.
Riley, who’s seen Charleston go through ups and downs during his 40 years as mayor, said the city must immediately start the healing process. A community prayer meeting will be held Friday at the College of Charleston, not far from the church, he said.
“We are going to put our arms around that church and that church family.”
Mourning started quickly. A prayer vigil was held at midday Thursday in Charleston. On Capitol Hill, U.S. Sen. Tim Scott, R-South Carolina, organized a vigil.
Dot Scott, the Charleston NAACP leader, said family and friends of the victims gathered at the Embassy Suites motel near the church after the shooting. The city set up a victims’ assistance center there.
“There were at least 50 or more people there,” she said. “There were families of the victims, grandchildren, council members and a bunch of people there.”
Scott said that’s where she heard about the shooter sparing the woman in the church.
“I did not hear this verbatim from the almost victim, I heard it from at least half a dozen other folks that were there and family of the victims,” she said. “There seems to be no question that this is what the shooter said.”
‘Sick to our stomachs’
The church sits in an area of Charleston densely packed with houses of worship and well-preserved old buildings. The streets of the neighborhood are normally filled with tourists.
Charleston, as several church leaders pointed out, is known as the “Holy City” because of its numerous churches and tolerant attitude toward different denominations.
“Like everybody out here, we’re sick to our stomachs that this could happen in a church,” said Rep. Dave Mack, a friend of the church’s pastor.
They called for justice, but also for calm. Theirs is a strong community, they said, and this incident wouldn’t tear them apart.
The president of the NAACP expressed his outrage over the shooting.
“There is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people engaged in the study of scripture,” Cornell William Brooks said.
Republican presidential candidates canceled campaign events in South Carolina. Jeb Bush canceled a scheduled town hall in Charleston on Thursday.
“As the #Charleston police deem this horrific act a hate crime,” the King Center tweeted, “we pray vigorously that this person’s hate does not cultivate more hate.”
CNN’s Evan Perez reported from Charleston. CNN’s Ralph Ellis wrote from Atlanta, and Ed Payne reported and wrote from Atlanta.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News 













 






 Follow Channel 13 News on Twitter
 @WHOhd    Follow #13Now







 

 


Popular



Adventureland to Build New Roller Coaster in 2016



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Feds Raid Home of Subway Spokesman Jared Fogle in Child Pornography Investigation



Viral Facebook Post About Veteran And Service Dog May Not Be Completely True







 


Latest News



Government Data Breach Impacted More Than 20 Million



POLL: Do Losses from Avian Flu Outbreak Deserve Disaster Declaration?



Popular Android Game Stole Facebook Logins



U.S. Law Enforcement Thwarted Plots Timed to July 4





 












News

Charleston Church Shooting: Questions Swirl Around Suspect Dylann Roof


News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call a Hate Crime


News

Multiple Fatalities at Church Shooting in Downtown Charleston, S.C.


News

Ted Cruz Talks Charleston Shooting While in Johnston



 


News

Charleston Shooting Victim Funerals Begin, As Confederate Flag Falls in Other States


News

South Carolina Lawmakers to Debate Confederate Flag Monday


News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images of Roof


News

Officer Charged with Murder After Video Shows him Shooting Man in Back


Politics

South Carolina Bill to Remove Confederate Flag Advances in Senate



 


News Politics

Clinton Calls for More Gun Control in Wake of Charleston Church Shooting


News

Obama Set to Eulogize Pastor in Charleston Shooting


News

Local Churches Holding Prayer Vigils Friday in Wake of S.C. Shooting






 





Mobile Apps13WarnMe Weather iPhone App
Android App
News iPhone & iPad App
Severe Weather Android App
Severe Weather iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1801 Grand Ave. Des Moines, IA 50309  •
		Copyright © 2015, WHO		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “whotv.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,319 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















