Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime | FOX2now.com 
Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News 11  

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime

Posted 5:25 am, June 18, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 




A white man walked into a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina, and opened fire during a Bible study class, killing nine people Wednesday evening.
The suspect was still at large early Thursday morning. And the shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, the oldest AME church in the South, is being investigated as a hate crime.
“The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate,” said Charleston Mayor Joe Riley.
Eight churchgoers died at the scene; a ninth at a hospital, police said. Among them is the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, according to CNN affiliate WCSC.
Officials wouldn’t say how many people were at the Bible study during the shooting. There were survivors, said Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen, but he didn’t elaborate.
Historic significance
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church has been a presence in Charleston since 1816 when African-American members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church formed their own congregation after a dispute over burial grounds.
It was burned to the ground at one point, but rebuilt. Over and over throughout its history, it overcame obstacle after obstacle – destroyed by an earthquake, banned by the state. But its church members persevered, making it the largest African-American church in terms of seating space in Charleston today.
Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement.
The shooting was “obviously the most intolerable and unbelievable act possible,” the mayor said.
“People in prayer Wednesday evening. A ritual, a coming together, praying, worshiping God. An awful person come in and shoot them is inexplicable,” Riley said.
Police received the first call around 9:05 p.m. Officers arrived to find several victims inside.
“It’s really bad. It’s a very bad scene,” local pastor Thomas Dixon said.
Search on for suspect
The Charleston, South Carolina, Police Department released this ‘Need to Identify’ poster showing still images of the person they believe to be a suspect in the shooting death of nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on Wednesday night, June 17, 2015.
Police said the suspect in the shooting is a clean-shaven white man in his early 20s, 5’9″ with a slender build and sandy blonde hair. He was wearing a gray sweatshirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots. “He has on a very distinctive sweatshirt as well as the vehicle, with a very distinctive license plate,” the police chief said. Police believe he is still in the Charleston area.
“He obviously is extremely dangerous,” Chief Mullen said.
Thursday morning, police handed out images of the man and his vehicle taken from surveillance footage and asked for the public’s help in identifying the man. Officials believe he is still in the Charleston area, but have contacted law enforcement authorities elsewhere to be on the lookout.
Police believe he is still in the Charleston area.
“This is an all hands on deck effort with the community as well as law enforcement,” Mullen said. “When people go out they should be vigilant, they should be aware of their surroundings. And if they see anything suspicious, they should call law enforcement.”
Late Wednesday night, news cameras showed officers taking a man matching that description into custody, but he was later released.
“While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we’ll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another,” South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said.
Mullen was more direct: “I do believe this was a hate crime.”
‘Sick to our stomachs’
The church sits in an area of Charleston, densely packed with houses of worship and well-preserved old buildings.
The city, as several reverends pointed out, is known as the “Holy City” for its tolerant attitude toward different denominations.
It was led by Rev. Clementa Pinckney, who was also a state senator. His death was reported by affiliate WCSC, who confirmed it through Elder James Johnson, the president of the Tri-County chapter of the civil rights organization, the National Action Network.
Recently, Pinckney backed a bill to make body cameras mandatory for all police officers in South Carolina. The legislation was in response to the death of Walter Scott, an unarmed black man killed by a police officer earlier this year.
“Body cameras help to record what happens. It may not be the golden ticket, the golden egg, the end-all-fix-all, but it helps to paint a picture of what happens during a police stop,” Pinckney said in April.
Early Thursday morning, residents stood in circles, hands clasped and heads bowed, as they prayed.
“Like everybody out here, we’re sick to our stomachs that this could happen in a church,” Rep. Dave Mack, a friend of the church’s pastor, said.
They called for justice, but also for calm heads.
Theirs is a strong community, they said, and this incident wouldn’t tear them apart.
The head of the NAACP expressed his outrage over the shooting.
“There is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people engaged in the study of scripture,” Cornell William Brooks said.
Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush canceled a scheduled town hall in Charleston on Thursday because of the shooting.
“As the #Charleston police deem this horrific act a hate crime,” the King Center tweeted, “we pray vigorously that this person’s hate does not cultivate more hate.”
By Ed Payne and Ashley Killough


CNN’s Ashley Killough reported from Charleston; Ed Payne reported and wrote from Atlanta


Pastor Rev. Clementa Pinckney is among the 9 people killed in Charleston church shooting, CNN affiliate says.  http://t.co/4Z8oXzQP3K
— CNN Breaking News (@cnnbrk) June 18, 2015





Filed in: News 













 






Events Calendar
See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



“Empire” singing contest is coming to St. Louis



Judge detains kids for refusing to spend time with father





 












News

Charleston shooting suspect charged with 9 counts of murder


Trending

Shooting reported at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston


News

﻿Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


News

Dylann Storm Roof arrested in North Carolina, according to report


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened



 


News

South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville


News

Shooting suspect in custody after Charleston church massacre


News

St. Louis faith leaders gather to mourn victims of Charleston shooting


News

Charleston church shooting: Suspect confesses, says he sought race war


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’



 


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Timeline of Charleston church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















