Charleston shooting impacts Missouri governor’s race | FOX2now.com 
Charleston shooting impacts Missouri governor’s race | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News 11  

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 82°





Fri


					70°  89°
					


Sat


					73°  91°
					


Sun


					74°  93°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Charleston shooting impacts Missouri governor’s race

Posted 6:52 pm, June 18, 2015, by Gregg Palermo, Updated at 07:14pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 




 



×
Charleston shooting impacts Missouri governor’s race


 


ST. LOUIS COUNTY, MO (KTVI) – The aftermath of Wednesday’s deadly church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina is having an affect on the 2016 race for governor here in the Show-Me State.
South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, a star in the Republican Party since her election there in 2011, was to be the headliner at a fundraiser for Catherine Hanaway, a GOP contender for Missouri governor, Thursday night in west St. Louis County. That event was postponed after Wednesday’s shooting.
Haley was in Charleston Thursday to meet with local officials, all trying to help that community come to grips with the deaths of nine people at Emanuel A.M.E. Church. A suspect was apprehended in North Carolina Thursday morning.
News of the impact on the Hanaway event was first reported by PoliticMO.
A campaign spokesman tells FOX2 the event, with Governor Haley’s participation, will be rescheduled. Hanaway is in a crowded primary field that includes State Senator Mike Parson and former State Rep. Randy Asbury. St. Louis businessman John Brunner, former Navy SEAL Eric Greitens, and Lt. Governor Peter Kinder are all exploring entry into a race that has been of national interest since State Auditor Tom Schweich, an early front-runner, took his own life this spring.



Filed in: News Topics: catherine hanaway, charleston, john brunner, mike parson, politics 













 






STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.







 

 


Popular



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation







 


Latest News



Hackers steal information of over 21 million people



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



“Empire” singing contest is coming to St. Louis



Judge detains kids for refusing to spend time with father





 












News

Republican Mike Parson confirms run for Missouri governor


News

DOJ launches hate crime investigation into Charleston church shooting


News

Clinton in Florissant: Removing Confederate flag important, but not solution


News

St. Louis faith leaders gather to mourn victims of Charleston shooting


News

Charleston church shooting: 9 killed in what officials call a hate crime



 


News

Hillary Clinton to make campaign stop near Ferguson Tuesday


News

Late Missouri auditor’s campaign returns $480,000 to donors


News

﻿Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


News

Alabama governor orders Confederate flags taken down


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?



 


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

A pastor who first heard the call at 13 — one of Charleston’s nine victims


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















