Pain of Charleston Shooting Felt in Sacramento | FOX40 
Pain of Charleston Shooting Felt in Sacramento | FOX40






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX40 News 

FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 59°
High 80°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  85°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Pain of Charleston Shooting Felt in Northern California

Posted 11:23 PM, June 18, 2015, by Marin Austin 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





MARYSVILLE —
Gina Johnson of Marysville tried to hold back tears as she explained that one of the nine people shot and killed Wednesday inside a historically black church in Charleston, South Carolina, was her cousin, Clementa Pinckney.
“My cousin called and asked if I heard,” she said. “I said ‘I did but Clementa wasn’t there.’ He said ‘no, he was one of the ones that got killed.”
Johnson said Pinckney was the pastor of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, a senator and a father.
In Sacramento, 45 minutes south of Johnson’s home, an eery silence inside St. Andrew’s African Methodist Episcopal Church, the oldest black church west of the Mississippi, established in 1850.
Calls are already coming in from community members asking about a vigil, which will be held Friday.
At the state Capitol legislators took a moment of silence on Thursday.
Sacramento Mayor Kevin Johnson told FOX40 Thursday he is praying for the victims, their families and for the mayor of Charleston.
“If there is anything I can do, or we can do as mayors, then count us in,” Johnson said.
The NAACP released a statement Thursday that partly stated:
“We are outraged that 106 years later, we are faced today with another mass hate crime.”
The vigil will be held at 6 p.m., Friday at the AME Church located at 4151 Don Julio Boulevard in North Highlands.



Filed in: Local News 













 






 Join FOX40 Tonight at 10
Watch on FOX40 News at 10







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



Man Allegedly Holding Explosive Device Arrested in Placerville



More than 21 Million Affected by Government Data Breach



Bethany Does a Headstand Using TRX Yoga



PWBA Storm Sacramento Open





 












National and World News

Charleston Victims: 9 Lives Lost to Family and Community


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


National and World News

Lives of Promise: Charleston Victims Identified


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War


National and World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting



 


National and World News

Obama Eulogizes Pastor in Charleston Shooting


National and World News

Woman Says Charleston Shooter Spared Her to ‘Tell Everyone’ What Happened


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call Hate Crime


National and World News

Minister: ‘No Evildoer, No Demon’ Can Close Church Targeted by Shooter


National and World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are Jail Neighbors, Police Confirm



 


National and World News

Charleston Shooting Suspect Hears Victim’s Family Say, ‘I Forgive You’


National and World News News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images Of Roof


Local News

Modesto Church Honors Lives Lost in Charleston Shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















