New Surveillance Video: Mystery Man Sought in Disappearance of UVA Student Hannah Graham | Fox News Insider 
New Surveillance Video: Mystery Man Sought in Disappearance of UVA Student Hannah Graham | Fox News Insider









            You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade now to a modern browser in order to benefit of all our site's features:
            Chrome,
            FireFox,
            Opera, 
            Safari or 
            Internet Explorer.  
            [Close]
        


Skip to main content





















The Official Blog of Fox News Channel












Schedule
People
Shows
 



















Most Recent Stories





  

1 min 54 sec ago

  		
				'Get Off the Damn Golf Course': Piers Morgan Slams Obama’s ISIS Response			




31 min 37 sec ago

  		
				WATCH: Rand Paul's Midterm Election Predictions			




1 hour 9 min ago

  		
				Napolitano: 'Crazy' to Let Terror Fighters Return to U.S., 'Wait & See What They Do'			




1 hour 32 min ago

  		
				Peters Blasts 'Fraudulent, Pretend Effort' Against ISIS As Terror Group Raises Black Flag Over Kobani			




2 hours 4 min ago

  		
				‘Killing Jesus’ Cast Revealed!			




2 hours 11 min ago

  		
				Weed Legalization Prompts Uptick in Homelessness in Colo.			




2 hours 42 min ago

  		
				O’Reilly: 'Muslim World Needs to Take a Hard Look at Itself'			




3 hours 20 min ago

  		
				Ill. Teen Accused of Trying to Join ISIS			




8 hours 3 min ago

  		
				'Swing' State: Wash. School District Removing Swings from Playgrounds			




10 hours 44 min ago

  		
				Top of the World: Meet the First Cancer Survivor to Climb Mt. Everest			




10 hours 50 min ago

  		
				Panetta: Obama 'Lost His Way,' Battle Against ISIS Could Be '30-Year War'			




10 hours 55 min ago

  		
				INCREDIBLE: Fans, Racers Miraculously Survive When Race Car Flies Off the Track			




11 hours 52 min ago

  		
				CAUGHT ON TAPE: Man Angrily Confronts Elderly Beggar in New Car			




12 hours 27 min ago

  		
				'In the FOXlight' With Smokey Robinson: New Album Features Pop Stars Performing His Hits			




13 hours 16 min ago

  		
				Palkot: One Round of Airstrikes in 5 Days as ISIS Moves Closer to Taking Syrian City Near Turkish Border			




13 hours 44 min ago

  		
				Hot Air Balloon Goes Down in Ocean Right After Man's Proposal			




14 hours 24 min ago

  		
				'Promise I Had to Keep': Vet Goes On to Big-Time College Football After Being Wounded in Afghanistan			




15 hours 13 min ago

  		
				PICS: Maria Molina Shares Engagement News on 'Fox and Friends'			




1 day 5 hours ago

  		
				'Where Is the World?': 'Large-Scale Massacre' Looms as ISIS Closes In on Kobani			




1 day 7 hours ago

  		
				Is the Gov't Doing Everything It Can to Contain Ebola in the U.S.?			




1 day 9 hours ago

  		
				Greenspan: Increasing Hours, Decreasing Productivity Rate Bad Long-Term for U.S. Economy			




1 day 9 hours ago

  		
				‘Media Buzz’: Henry 'Stunned' by Lack of Outrage from WH over Secret Service Scandal			




1 day 10 hours ago

  		
				'D'oh' Canada': Skating Singer Face-Plants During National Anthem			




1 day 11 hours ago

  		
				Best First Pitch Ever?! Army Vet Lobs Baseball Like a Grenade			




1 day 12 hours ago

  		
				Freedom to Pray: Janine Turner on How to Get Religion Back in Public Schools			


 
 1 of 10››



LOAD MORE 









 










Next



COMMENT

SHARE


Tweet







Surveillance Video: Mystery Man Sought in Disappearance of UVA Student
























 by Fox News Insider // 
Sep 18 2014 // 9:07am 


As seen on Fox and Friends 









Programming Note: Don't miss "On the Record," tonight at 7p/2a ET as Greta sends her team to Virginia to get the latest information on the search for Hannah Graham.






	A new lead has emerged in the search for a missing University of Virginia student, who disappeared after leaving a party early Saturday.

	Hannah Graham, 18, reportedly sent a text message to a friend saying she had gotten lost while walking home from an off-campus party.


Parents Desperate to Find Daughter Who Vanished From Mall Parking Garage

Police Question Neighbors in Case of Missing 6-Year-Old Arizona Girl

Two Years Later: Are Police Any Closer to Finding Baby Lisa?


	Now, new surveillance video shows a man who appears to follow Graham as she walks outside a downtown Charlottesville mall. Police have identified the man, but have not released his name.

Authorities say he came forward voluntarily, and told police that he saw a black male approach Graham and put his arm around her.

	He said that he followed Graham because she appeared to be distressed, but reportedly told police that Graham seemed to know the man.

	Police are attempting to locate the second man and trying to find other videos that could show the two.

	Police are also looking at other previous videos of Graham captured by businesses' surveillance cameras. One shows Graham walking past a bar, appearing to be intoxicated, and a second video shows her running past a gas station.

	Police say those two videos don't show anyone following Graham. It's believed she walked at least a mile and a half from the party.

	There is concern that Graham's disappearance is linked to other cases of missing women in the Charlottesville area.

	In 2009, Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington disappeared while walking near the UVA campus after leaving a concert. Her body was found in a rural area three months later. The case remains unsolved.

	Harrington's family has spoken out since learning of Graham's disappearance. More on that below from WSLS-TV:

		"It's heartbreaking to know that another young woman is missing and another family is going through the anguish of the missing period," mother Gil Harrington said.

		Gil Harrington knows this pain all too well. She said hearing the news of UVA student Hannah Graham's disappearance on Monday, she can't help but think of her own daughter, Morgan. Morgan was a Virginia Tech student who went missing near UVA's campus in 2009 and was found three months later murdered.

		"Every new class of first year students at UVA don't know the previous cultural history there and the high incidents of assaults against young women there," Harrington said.

		Harrington said the circumstances surrounding the UVA softball player vanishing has startling similarities to her daughter's case.

		Charlottesville Police have searched areas between Rugby Road and Grady Avenue and also here near McGrady's Pub in Charlottesville for Hannah.

		While, police found Morgan's Pantera t-shirt from the night she was murdered in the middle of both areas.

		Now, Harrington said there's at least thirteen women in the last five years in Virginia who have gone missing or been murdered.

		"It seems like there is a cluster phenomenon of missing and murdered women in that area and I don't know if it's that attributable to a crime spree or to a situation that enables these crimes to occur, but what ever the problem is, we need to address it. There's too many are missing and too many are gone," Harrington said.



Parents Desperate to Find Daughter Who Vanished From Mall Parking Garage

Police Question Neighbors in Case of Missing 6-Year-Old Arizona Girl

Two Years Later: Are Police Any Closer to Finding Baby Lisa?


	Anyone with information about Graham's disappearance should call the Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.


Posted in: 

            // Hannah Graham             // Virginia             // Missing girl 


 Leave a Comment0 




 






Today's Front Page Stories





    				Peters Blasts 'Fraudulent, Pretend Effort' Against ISIS As Terror Group Raises Black Flag Over Kobani			    


 









																'Get Off the Damn Golf Course': Piers Morgan Slams Obama’s ISIS Response														


 





																Napolitano: 'Crazy' to Let Terror Fighters Return to U.S., 'Wait & See What They Do'														


 





																WATCH: Rand Paul's Midterm Election Predictions														


 





																Ill. Teen Accused of Trying to Join ISIS														


 





																Weed Legalization Prompts Uptick in Homelessness in Colo.														


 





																O’Reilly: 'Muslim World Needs to Take a Hard Look at Itself'														


 





																Panetta: Obama 'Lost His Way,' Battle Against ISIS Could Be '30-Year War'														


 





																Best First Pitch Ever?! Army Vet Lobs Baseball Like a Grenade														


 



Crazy Video 

																Hot Air Balloon Goes Down in Ocean Right After Man's Proposal														


 







On Fox News Channel
All Times Eastern






                                                                                                                                                        8                                                                            




	
                                                                                                                                                                P                                                                                                                                                            










	In Colorado, a huge influx of homeless folks are arriving to sample legalized pot. Don't miss The O'Reilly Factor.











                                                                                                                                                        10                                                                            




	
                                                                                                                                                                P                                                                                                                                                            










Hannity: Piers Morgan details his scathing criticism of the president in a cable exclusive.











8 



 

P 










	A primetime exclusive, Tuesday: Don't miss Bill O'Reilly's interview with former Defense Secy Leon Panetta.











																‘Killing Jesus’ Cast Revealed!														


 



GOOD NEWS


																PICS: Maria Molina Shares Engagement News on 'Fox and Friends'														


 



Crazy Video


																INCREDIBLE: Fans, Racers Miraculously Survive When Race Car Flies Off the Track														


 





																Top of the World: Meet the First Cancer Survivor to Climb Mt. Everest														


 



GOOD NEWS


																'Promise I Had to Keep': Vet Goes On to Big-Time College Football After Being Wounded in Afghanistan														


 





																'In the FOXlight' With Smokey Robinson: New Album Features Pop Stars Performing His Hits														


 



Viral


																CAUGHT ON TAPE: Man Angrily Confronts Elderly Beggar in New Car														


 



 
 

 
 






All Categories



  
 
Crazy Video  

 
Fiery  

 
Funny  

 
GOOD NEWS  

 
Outrageous  

 
Viral  
 
 

 
 





Don't want to keep checking back here for the latest from Fox News? That's cool. We'll come to you ...
Connect with Fox News







Subscribe


Stay connected with the most-trusted name in cable news through exclusive videos, blogs, polls, contests and behind-the-scene details.













 












Get More Fox!





 


Greta Is Wired! 


	GretaWire.com is the official blog of Greta Van Susteren. Get Greta’s breaking news alerts, pictures, videos, polls, and behind-the-scenes exclusives. Plus, speak out on open threads, as well as the live chat page. Connect to the GretaWire community ... and to Greta herself!




 


Fox News Presents: 'My America with Elisabeth Hasselbeck' 


	Fox News Channel presents an exciting new feature series, My America with Elisabeth Hasselbeck. From the quirky to the inspirational, "My America" reveals who we are as a nation – driven, passionate and uniquely American. Watch the latest installment, an up-close look at the beloved Oscar Mayer Wienermobile!



 

 
 






Back to Top





About
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
RSS
 



This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.	©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. 


 
  



