U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned | WJLA.com 
U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






EDUCATION
U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned

By Greta Kreuz, ABC 7 News, Associated Press, Tom Roussey

			September 15, 2014 - 02:45 pm Updated: September 15, 2014 - 11:58 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP/WJLA) - The president of the University of Virginia said the university community was deeply concerned about a student from Alexandria who had been missing since early Saturday.
Continue reading


No trace of missing teen



















Hannah Elizabeth Graham, seen in a surveillance camera image, the way she was dressed when she disappeared. (Photo: Charlottesville PD))






Hannah Elizabeth Graham, who is missing from UVA. (Photo: Charlottesville PD)



U.Va. President Teresa Sullivan issued the statement Monday as police continued to search for Hannah Elizabeth Graham. Police said she was last heard from at 1:20 a.m. Saturday when she texted a friend while out for a night of drinking.
According to friends, she was last seen around the area of Camden Plaza Apartments in Charlottesville. Friends also believe she may have been down Main Street or on Wertland Street, past the U.Va. Corner.
Charlottesville Police said their search had found no trace of 18-year-old Graham, a 2013 graduate of West Potomac High School in the Fairfax County portion of Alexandria.
“Everyone’s talking about it, we’re all so worried,” said West Potomac student Emilyne Danielson.
Nikki Minnis, a West Potomac student and former softball teammate of Graham’s, said, “When I first got on the team, she was very welcoming. And I was shy, too, so she would always help me with everything.”
In her statement, Sullivan said the U.Va. community was "united in our deep concern" for Graham.
According to U.Va. officials, Graham is 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. She was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs.
“Hannah is a wonderful young lady. She’s the type of girl anyone would want to have as a daughter,” said Karen Blunk, a neighbor of Graham’s who watched her grow up. “I want everybody to think of the family and help us get Hannah home soon.”
Anyone with information on Graham's whereabouts was asked by the university to contact the Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280.


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Missing Girl, 
UVA, 
University Of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, 
Virginia, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Missing Person, 
Missing Persons, 
Missing Teen, 
West Potomac High School, 
Fairfax County, 
Fairfax County Schools, 
Fairfax County Public Schools








Recommended For You










More in "Education"



Smithsonian's American History museum traces fragments of Star-Spangled Banner



MCPS spends $140K in legal fees to defend Board of Education in credit card scandal



Community raises $26,000 to buy wheelchair-accessible van for Juwaan Espinal, Centreville High student with cerebral palsy












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit
















2 missing Clarksburg, Md. kids believed dead; police build homicide case against mom









Ray Rice punching wife video sent to NFL months ago, according to police









Acting on tip, D.C. police renew search for 8-year-old Relisha Rudd in Kenilworth Park









D.C. Police Chief Cathy Lanier 'shocked' by video of officer's behavior in confronting man filming a









Facebook Messenger app scam: How to protect personal data on your mobile device





















News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

