'Hannah Graham. Where are you?' Thousands gather at vigil for missing UVA student as police launch hunt for 'person of interest' seen as she staggered through downtown mall | Daily Mail Online 
'Hannah Graham. Where are you?' Thousands gather at vigil for missing UVA student as police launch hunt for 'person of interest' seen as she staggered through downtown mall | Daily Mail Online

























 












 Home




 U.K.



 
 

News




 Sports




 U.S. Showbiz




 Australia




 Femail




 Health




 Science




 Money




 Video




 Travel




 Columnists







News Home


Arts


Headlines


Pictures


Most read


News Board


Wires



My Profile
Logout



Login













Feedback








DailyMail






 






 show ad

























	18
      
shares












American student, 19, 'trying to join ISIS' arrested at Chicago's O'Hare airport after leaving note for his parents signed 'PLEASE MAKE SURE NOT TO TELL THE AUTHORITIES'





Dallas Ebola victim's stepdaughter - who took him to hospital as he was 'vomiting wildly' - is given all clear to return to work as a nursing assistant





Spanish nurse who treated Ebola victim in Madrid becomes first person to contract virus outside of Africa





U.S. Ebola patient gets experimental anti-viral drug as he remains critical





Is that fence to keep people out or the patients in? U.S. troops set up at first Ebola field hospital in Liberia and start with a barbed wire perimeter





'We thought he was crazy and begged him not to go back': Parents of NBC reporter with Ebola reveal how he refused to listen to pleas to stay away from Africa as he begins fight for his life in Nebraska





Obama's new airport screening plan uses CUSTOMS AGENTS to spot Ebola as president concedes that 'we don't have a lot of margin for error'





Teenager with 'Ebola-like' symptoms quarantined in Miami after falling sick while on holiday from West Africa





Jacksonville Jaguars come under fire after mascot holds up sign about EBOLA to mock NFL rivals' 'Terrible Towels' during game





Dallas Weekly magazine publishes horribly ill-timed cover promoting a 'Taste of Africa' as first US Ebola case diagnosed in Texas





Two friends of high school swimming star among FIVE teens charged with his murder after 'drug deal gone wrong'





Six kids with six mothers, allegations of rape at a 'booze-fulled orgy with his underage brother'  and tens of thousands 'missing' from his charity: The seedy world of NFL star Adrian Peterson BEFORE he was arrested on child abuse charges





The terrible truth about cannabis: Expert's devastating 20-year study finally demolishes claims that smoking pot is harmless 





A Florida man wore a 'f*** the police' shirt to court hearing against state troopers - then amazingly won his case





Construction worker has his thumb bitten off after putting hand inside tiger cage at Florida animal sanctuary owned by 'notorious drug kingpin and racketeer'  





'My father held me down like an animal, wielding a rusty pair of clippers used on the sheep... they cut my skin': The Good Wife actor Alan Cumming reveals tormented childhood that led to a nervous breakdown





Tennis coach, 27, at Catholic high school arrested after having 'sexual relationship with 15-year-old team member' and has a restraining order put on him by father of player 'he was obsessed with'





Occupy Wall Street activist 'threatened to kill police officer's family' after intervening when two fare-dodgers were being arrested on New York subway





Stuck for words? How saying 'um' or 'er' in conversation can reveal a lot about who you are





Think yourself younger: Assume your wits will fade with age? Wrong! You can be smarter and happier than ever - and our series explains how 





Kurdish mother-of-two launches suicide attack to slow Islamic State advance in desperate battle for Kobane





H&M apologises after being accused of modelling khaki outfit on uniform worn by Kurdish female fighters battling ISIS





American captive Peter Kassig converted to Islam in ISIS captivity and prays five times a day under the name Abdul-Rahman but 'Jihadi John' is still planning to behead him





'Where are they getting all these folks from?' Author Naomi Wolf is condemned for suggesting ISIS hostages are ACTORS and be-headings aren't real




Previous
Next








'Hannah Graham. Where are you?' Thousands gather at vigil for missing British student as US police launch hunt for 'person of interest' seen with his arm round her as she staggered through downtown mall
Police release description of black male seen with Hannah Graham at 1amSeen by witness who followed the 18-year-old after becoming concerned by her stumblingSaw man and teen walking through Charlottesville downtown mallDescribed man as having a shaven head, wearing black jeans Was wearing a white T-shirt, has a 'beer belly' and a goateeWitnessed putting his arm around Hannah as they walked down streetPolice released surveillance footage of witness following HannahThey have not released the footage of the black male 'person of interest'Sent text at 1.20am to friends to say she was lost in the neighborhood where she livesHer parents say that they now 'fear the worst' By

Nick Fagge In Charlottesville, Virginia And Jame Nye For Mailonline


Published:
  00:19 EST, 19 September 2014

 | 
Updated:
  00:45 EST, 19 September 2014





















18
shares

 
           2
View  comments


Thousands gathered on Thursday night for a vigil in the University of Virginia Amphitheater in honor of Hannah Graham, the 18-year-old student who disappeared on Saturday morning.Students held candles and played music, all with one message: bring Graham home.Classmates of Hannah Graham, 18, brought some reminders of the missing second-year-student's hobbies to Thursday night's candlelight vigil, like skis and an alto saxophone, which she plays. Organizers passed out her favorite sweets.    
 UVA students show emotion at a candlelight vigil where over 5,000 people gathered in support of Hannah Graham at the McIntyre Amphitheatre on the University of Virginia's Charlottesville, Va. campus  
 Students held candles and played music, all with one message: bring Graham home  
 Thousands gathered Thursday night for a vigil in the University of Virginia Amphitheater in honor of Hannah Graham  
 Students, teachers and parents raise their candles in support of missing U.Va. student Hannah Elizabeth during a student led vigillFellow students say they all feel a sense of loss, and of hope for her return. Friends wrote a letter which was read at the memorial, which appeared to draw around 2,000 people, in which they said 'It's hard to fathom the confusion, fright, anger and sadness we've felt since you went missing ... You make things good, Hannah Graham. Where are you?''We all just want to come be here for Hannah,' said Eliza Costas to NBC News. 'We are keeping her families in our prayers and hope for the best.'


RELATED ARTICLES

Previous
1
Next






Newlyweds who killed a man for fun after luring him into trap with Craigslist sex advert are spared...



Brother of a man already arrested in the murder of student Holly Bobo is caught bringing the total...






'Those who do know her and those who don't, it really doesn't matter. It's mostly, she's a member of the UVA community. A lot of people know her, who she is as a person, what organizations she was involved in, and we're really just trying to all come here together and hope for her safe return,' said Eric Dotterer to NBC 29. The crowd heard from a number of speakers, including her close friends and the student class president.  
 Students listen to musical performances during a student led vigil for missing U.Va. student Hannah  Graham  
 Fellow students say they all feel a sense of loss, and of hope for her return  
 The crowd heard from a number of speakers, including her close friends and the student class president. The feeling of all the speakers was one of hope and belief that, in this weekend's coming search, they will find their classmate  
 Thousands showed up at the vigil to pray for her safe return. Graham’s family has said they suspect foul playThe feeling of all the speakers was one of hope and belief that, in this weekend's coming search, they will find their classmate.Graham vanished sometime early Saturday morning after she left an off-campus party, police said. Police in Charlottesville have released a description of a man seen with his arm around missing the UVA student on the night she disappeared.Surveillance videos show the young woman interacting with someone outside a Charlottesville bar and later at a downtown mall, where a witness told police a man was seen putting his arm around the student.Labeled a person of interest by police, the man was seen by a witness with the 18-year-old student just after 1.08am.   
 Jalen Ross, Student Council President, spoke about the missing student who was last seen early Saturday morning  
 Teresa Sullivan, President, University of Virginia, spoke words of encouragement  
 The vigil was full of little reminders to help paint the picture of who she is. All of the music was selections of her favorite songsDescribed by the witness as a black male around 5'10'- 5'12' and weighing 250-285 pounds, police said that he has a close shaved head, a goatee beard and a slight 'beer belly'He is estimated to be in his late 20s or early 30s.Dressed in black jeans and a white T-shirt, the man was seen with Hannah walking past Tuel's Jewellers around 12 minutes before she sent her last text to friends saying she was lost.Dean of Students Allen Groves said he remains hopeful. 'Hannah we believe is still out there, and we want to bring her back and have everyone focused on this case.' He said the university will continue to emphasize to students that they should always inform friends where they are going and what time they will arrive.Graham's family has said they suspect foul play. On the University of Virginia campus Thursday, sophomore Meg Thornberry said women at the university are warned against walking alone at night by themselves. But, she added, 'I don't think most people are worried about their own safety, but about Hannah's.'A search, organized by the Blue Ridge Mountain Rescue Group, will take place Saturday and Sunday.  
 Students listen to speakers during a student led vigil for the missing  student  
 A British flag is draped on a wall in Hannah Graham's honor. She was born there  
   
   New footage: This screen shot of new security video shows Hannah Graham (red) walking past an Italian restaurant in Charlottesville downtown mall just after 1am on Saturday morning as the witness (circled in green) watches her  
   Watching: As the 18-year-old student approaches the unidentified witness her erratic walking and stumbling catches his attention  
   Follow: The man - who has spoken to police and is not a suspect - begins to walk after Hannah - concerned that her drunken behavior could be harmful Police have not yet released surveillance footage of the person of interest, but did release footage of the witness who followed her.He has told police he became concerned seeing her stumbling around the downtown mall outside Sal's Pizza at 1.06am.Film taken from two separate cameras shows the witness pursue the 18-year-old through the  mall area shortly after 1am.In the first clip the man looks over his shoulder, steps into a doorway and is obscured from Hannah's view as she walks past before following her.The man is then captured in a second clip  walking some distance behind her.Late last night investigators said the man in the video presented himself at Charlottesville Police Department (CPD).He had also called the dedicated tip-line offering information about Hannah, officers have said.The man, who has not been identified, told police he had followed Hannah as she appeared 'physically distressed' and wanted to make sure she was safe.According to the police, he said he saw another man stop Hannah and put his arm around her.The man, who he described as black, is not captured in any of the video footage - but police have released a description of him.Police have issued a statement to say the black man shown walking with Hannah Graham in video footage released by police has been ruled out of their missing persons inquiry.The man, seen in the video who has dreadlocks and is wearing three-quarter length trousers, has already been interviewed by detectives.A spokesman for Charlottesville Police Department said: 'We already know who the black man in the video is and he has spoken with officers.'He has been ruled out of the inquiry.'He has nothing to do with Hannah's disappearance.'Police have however released a description of a different black man seen with Hannah that they are desperately trying to trace. 
 
Search: University of Virginia officials have launched a huge hunt for the missing second year student after she disappeared on Saturday morning




Missing UVA student seen being followed on mall surveillance













  
   Walking: The same man from outside the Italian restaurant is seen in this screen shot walking with Hannah as he tries to check if she is okayThe witness said it appeared that the man police want to speak to appeared to know Hannah or was trying to help her.  TIMELINE OF HANNAH'S MOVEMENTS   11: 50 p.m. Friday — Graham last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in the 200 block of 14th Street NW12:45 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady's Pub on Grady Street12:55 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on Shell station surveillance video on Preston Ave1 a.m. Saturday — Witness reports seeing Graham on Downtown Mall1:06 a.m. Saturday — Video captures Graham in front of Sal's pizza restaurant, continuing to walk east along the mall1:08 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen in front of Tuel Jewelers1:20 a.m. Saturday — Graham sends a text to friends saying she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets  The witness, who is white, then walked away leaving Hannah talking with the black man.A statement issued by the CPD said: 'At 10:15 pm the unidentified white male in the videos came to the police department.'He told police that he was following Ms. Graham as she looked to be somewhat physically distressed and he wanted to make sure she got safely to wherever she was going.'Soon after he was following her, he said that a black male came up to her and put his arm around her, stopping her.'Ms. Graham and this black male started speaking and it appeared to the witness that the black male was either known to Ms. Graham or was trying to help her.'The witness then walked away and he said that Ms. Graham and the black male were still standing and talking when he left.The black male is not shown in either of these videos.'Yesterday, video footage of UVA student Hannah Graham outside a bar and a gas station was released by police today as her anguished parents revealed that they now fear foul play.Hannah, 18, can be seen staggering and visibly drunk outside McGrady's Irish in two clips taken from the bar's surveillance equipment.Wearing a short top and trousers, the 18-year-old appears disorientated. She halts by the side the pub's outside beer garden before falling off the curb.  
Confusion: This map shows Hannah Graham's movements on the night of Friday 12 and Saturday 13. At 11.50pm she was seen at a party by friends with another male friend. She then seemed to head westwards towards the Charlottesville downtown mall 
  Crucial: The footage of Hannah is from approximately 30 minutes before she called her friends to say she was lostThe second-year student re-enters the video camera frame some two minutes later when she walks up to the bar entrance, but crucially she does not go in.Hannah is then seen walking away from the bar heading in the direction of Charlottesville's old town. Police have confirmed this was at 12.46am – not the time which appears on the film.The teenager can be seen running in a second video taken from a 24-hour Shell petrol station on Preston Avenue, less than half a mile from the bar.The video footage was taken less than five minutes after she had left McGrady's according to investigators. 




New video of missing UVA student shows her outside Shell station













 
  Approach: The footage released by Charlottesville police shows Hannah (bottom left) walking by the doors of McGrady's Irish pub at around 12.46am on Saturday 
  Eerie: At today's press conference, Charlottesville police released footage of the eerie Shell station forecourt that Hannah Graham ran past just before 1am on Saturday morningCharlottesville's Chief of Police Timothy Longo said he did not believe she was being chased as the second film shows her stop running and walking.He was also pained to point out that no one should judge the student just because she appeared to be intoxicated and that the most important thing now is to find her.However Hannah's parents have revealed they now fear the worst.In a statement released through the police John and Susan Graham said: 'Hannah is beyond precious to us, and we are devastated by her disappearance. It is totally out of character for us not to have heard from her, and we fear foul play.'We are in constant contact with the Charlottesville Police Department (CPD) and the University of Virginia.'We have learned has received many helpful leads from the leads from the public. We are very grateful for all the information already provided and urge members of the public to continue to call the dedicated tip line, with anything at all, however small it seems.'We would also like to recognize the many messages of support we have received from Hannah's friends at UVA, her friends from high school, band and soft ball team, as well as our neighbors, friends and work colleagues, too many to count.'Although we are British, Hannah has lived in Virginia since she was five. This is her home and we have always felt welcome here.'We are so grateful for everyone involved in the search for Hannah. Like you, we will not rest until we find her and she comes home.   
   Police have released this missing poster and are asking anyone with information to contact them 
  Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo speaks at a press conference on Wednesday, September 17, 2014 along the downtown pedestrian mall in Charlottesville, Va. where Hannah Graham was seen by an eye witness at a nearby restaurant on 2nd Street  
   Heartbroken and hopeful: Hannah with her brother, James, mother, Sue and father, John. The Graham's issued a joint statement on Tuesday saying they are hopeful Hannah will be found  
 With friends: Hannah with a group of friends who have all described her disappearance as extremely uncharacteristic Police Chief Longo said he was pursuing 'an aggressive investigation' to find Hannah and he described her disappearance as every parent's worst nightmare.He said he had met with Mr and Mrs Graham today and was clearly moved by their plight.He said: 'You can only imagine. As a parent and as a husband you can imagine what they are going through these past several days.'Our focus is to find their daughter and by the grace of God return her to their care.'Chief Longo said investigators had received over 100 calls to the dedicated Hannah Graham tip line and he urged anyone who 'may have seen or heard anything on the Friday night and Saturday night' to call.He said although 'straight A' student Hannah is under the legal age for drinking she should not be judged for being drunk.Chief Longo said: 'We had reason to believe she was under the influence of alcohol. I think it's extremely important to point something out.'Folks have gone very quickly to this issue and attacked the character of this young lady.'The reason that information came out as from an investigative stand point, was because it suggests the fact that she was vulnerable. That she may not have been in a position to protect herself. And so we thought it important to get that information out publicly.'It also speaks to the fact that not only was she vulnerable that she may not have been in a position to make good decisions.'I find it unfortunate that some people are latching on to that and despoiling this young lady's character.'Chief Longo said investigators had obtained video footage from across the city and had also seized electronic equipment from Hannah's apartment.Hannah Graham is alleged to have ventured into a poor neighborhood in the early hours of Saturday morning, according to residents.The student is known to have sent a text message saying she was lost.Investigators were spotted following blood hounds around Friendship Court, a low income housing development across the railway tracks from Charlottesville's upmarket Downtown Mall area.Shop keepers have offered police video footage which appears to show the 18-year-old student walking through the red-brick pedestrian street.And it appears that Hannah may have cross the tracks into Garret St, a notorious area of Charlottesville close to the city's Old Town.One resident told Mail Online: 'There were police with blood hounds down here yesterday. The dogs were following a trail around Friendship Court and men were searching through the bushes.'Another resident added: 'I heard about the missing girl and then I saw the police and detectives come through the area.' 
  Shell Station. Hannah was seen outside this station at 12.55 amAnother witness has come forward to say that they saw Hannah at 1am approaching Charlotesville downtown mall, adding to the confusion as to why she was walking away from her friends and where she lived. Authorities have said they do not know why she texted her friends at 1.20am to say she was lost near to the UVA campus - an area she knows very well - and said the new footage will change the whole focus of their search for Hannah.Hannah was last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in Charlottesville at 11.50pm on Friday night at a party with another male friend and police have said she was heavily intoxicated.At 1.20am, friends waiting at a party for the student got a text from her saying that she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets, which is near the student's own off-campus home.However, the new surveillance footage released on Wednesday places her half-a-mile away at the Charlottesville downtown mall just 20 minutes before the text.The 5'11' softball player, whose parents are English, was wearing black pants and a gold top that had black mesh cut outs on the evening she went missing.The search for the northern Virginia woman has involved local police, the Virginia State Police, University of Virginia police and the FBI, which is processing leads, Pleasants said. The search has also included canine teams and helicopters.Asked if investigators were fearful Graham was abducted, Pleasants said, 'Right now there's nothing that points to anything criminal. However, we're obviously not discounting anything.'The FBI has confirmed that it is involved in the search as authorities admit the teen is at least the fourth young woman to go missing in the area in the past five years. 




Authorities search for missing student Hannah Graham













 
 
  Last known pictures: Police have released this CCTV footage of Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, on the night she disappeared after failing to show up for a party  
   Five minutes later; Hannah was then seen walking towards the Charlottesville Mall at 1.00am - twenty minutes before she texted to say she was lost  
   Search focus: Police in Charlottesville have said that witnesses and surveillance footage place Hannah Graham outside McGrady's Pub around 12.45am on Saturday morningHer friends reported her missing on Sunday morning after she failed to contact anyone.University President Teresa A. Sullivan issued a statement saying the community is 'united in our deep concern'' for the Fairfax County second-year student.And Hannah's family, originally from England issued their own statement.'Since learning of Hannah's disappearance, we have been heartbroken and at the same time heartened by the outpouring of support and help we have received. We remain hopeful that Hannah will be found soon,' said her father John, mother Susan and brother James Graham in a joint statement.'Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends. 
 
 
Hannah, who is not a US citizen is 5'11' with blue eyes and light brown hair. She is said to live off campus'She is highly responsible and organized. She embraces life with energy and enthusiasm and has enriched the lives of many.'Her empathy is evident in her daily interactions with us and her friends. She loves the University of Virginia, and all summer she was looking forward to the start of the new school year.'We express our sincere gratitude to law enforcement and everyone who is involved in the search for Hannah. We also thank the University for the full attention they are devoting to the situation.'Also on Tuesday authorities asked local residents to check their property for any clues, including in bushes and under any tarps if they have any. On Monday night, Charlottesville Police released images of Hannah recorded on a surveillance camera inside her own apartment block.They are from around 9pm and later on Friday Hannah attended a party with a male friend just a few blocks away.Anyone with information is asked to call Charlottesville Police Department at 970-3280 or Crimestoppers at 977-4000.  Missing UVA student Hannah Graham is the FIFTH young woman in five years to vanish along 'Route 29 corridor' - and only one body has ever been found    Missing student Hannah Graham is one of five young women to have disappeared from the Charlottesville area in the past five years within a few minutes' drive of the same Route 29 highway.As the FBI, police and volunteers continue their desperate search for the 18-year-old and her parents said they fear 'foul play', the mother of one of the young women who vanished said the worry of not knowing is the hardest part to bear.Gil Harrington suffered months of despair after her 20-year-old daughter Morgan disappeared from Virginia Tech University (UVA) in October 2009 while attending a rock concert. Her body was not recovered until three months later, hidden at a remote farm. She had been raped before she was murdered. Mrs Harrington said: 'You kind of go down the rabbit hole again of anguish. My heart goes out to Hannah's family. It is all about their girl, their beloved daughter.'Mrs Harrington, 57, from Roanake added: 'I hope and pray that Hannah is somewhere and is recoverable and will come walking through the door with a sheepish look on her face any moment now. 'That's my hope. But my logic tells me that is unlikely to happen. I'm really holding out hope that we can have a good outcome.'  
   Missing on Route 29: Five women have gone missing in and around Charlottesville, Virginia, just a few minutes' drive from the same highway in the last five years. The body of just one has been found so far 
 
  Tragedy: Morgan Harrington, 20 (left), vanished from UVA's John Paul Jones Arena while attending a Metallica concert in October 2009. Alexis Murphy, 17 (right), was last seen at a gas station in Lovingston in August 2013 
 
  Mystery: DaShad Laquinn Smith, 19 (left), has not been seen since November 2012. Samantha Ann Clarke, 19 (right) vanished after leaving her home in Orange in September 2010Hannah is one of five young women who have disappeared from Charlottesville and the surrounding area in past five years along the Route 29 corridor. Only one of the cases has been solved and the whereabouts of four, including Hannah, remains unknown.Morgan Harrington, 20, vanished from UVA's John Paul Jones Arena while attending a Metallica concert in October 2009. Her remains were discovered three months later but her killer is still at large.Samantha Ann Clarke, 19, went missing after leaving her home in nearby Orange County in September 2010. Her body has not been found.DaShad Laquinn Smith, 19, disappeared in Charlottesville in November 2012. Her whereabouts remain a mystery.Alexis Murphy, 17, disappeared after leaving her home in Shipman, Virginia, in August 2013. This May, Randolph Taylor, 48, was convicted of her abduction and murder in January although her body has never been found.Another two young women, Alicia Showalter Reynolds, 25, and Anne Carolyn McDaniel, 20, were abducted and murdered in 1996 along the same corridor.Mrs Harrington has launched a charity in her daughter's honor called Help Save The Next Girl to educate young women of the dangers of predatory men. She has previously said that a serial killer was responsible for Morgan's murder.Mrs Harrington said: 'My own daughter was abducted in the area that Hannah went missing. Morgan was abducted and murdered in Charlottesville in 2009. We know that the person involved with Morgan's case was a serial offender. We know that because he was involved with a previous abduction and rape in 2005.'She refused to elaborate or speculate further.   

Read more:

Vigil for Missing University of Virginia Student Hannah Graham - NBC News
Thousands Gather at Vigil for Hannah Graham - NBC29 WVIR Charlottesville, VA News, Sports and Weather





Share or comment on this article

























18shares













MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS

Previous
1
2
3
Next

 



Oklahoma City Panhandler is busted when caught in 2013 car





Mariah Carey has trouble with her mic stand at Tokyo gig





Incredible moment 'brain-dead' teen moves foot on command





HILARIOUS! Boy thinks Beyonce lied to him after wisdom tooth...





Katy Perry living it up at a bar in Oxford, Mississippi





Adorable moment one-year-old sees her dad clean shaven





Jules Bianchi critical after a serious crash in Japanese GP





WARNING. Shocking footage of moment of Jules Bianchi's crash





Rally fans cheat death by inches in insane crash





Lion cubs playing with their mum cause traffic jam!...





Incredible moment two kangaroos go at it on an Aussie street





You won't believe what doctors found lurking in this man's...























Patriots cheerleaders reduce Bengals' Devon Still to tears...





Teenager with 'Ebola-like' symptoms quarantined in Miami...





'You drive a better car than me!': The moment charitable...





Furious Ben Affleck blasts Bill Maher and guests on-air...





Internet troll who targeted McCanns found dead in hotel room...





Somebody's Mum: Facebook campaign to get Sky reporter who...





American man, 19, 'attempting to go join ISIS' arrested at...





I'm bisexual and use male prostitutes admits honeymoon...





iCloud hacker releases fourth wave of celebrity nudes -...





Athlete who spent a year training for gruelling 140-mile...





The terrible truth about cannabis: British expert's...





Kurdish mother-of-two launches suicide attack to slow...




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
Next

●
●
●


 















Comments (2)

                                	Share what you think
                                







Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated




 View all



The comments below have been moderated in advance.





                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.


Who is this week's top commenter?
Find out now







More top stories










Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search


























Like
DailyMail




Follow
MailOnline




Follow
DailyMail




+1
DailyMail







 
 
Femail Today







          'People who post lots of quotes have major issues': Kim Kardashian appears to take a swipe at sister Khloe in new Twitter rant
          
          Are the sisters at war?
        








          'It was surreal': Emily Ratajkowski dishes on kissing Gone Girl co-star Ben Affleck as she smolders in sexy grey cut-out dress
          
          Gone Girl is her first film
        








          'I want to be married and away from people': Troubled Amanda Bynes now claims she is engaged and wants to start a family in a new interview
          









          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Victoria's Secret model Behati Prinsloo shows off her enviable figure in teeny-tiny bikini on Hawaiian photoshoot
          
          She's Mrs Adam Levine
        








          Teresa Giudice and husband Joe 'snag a BIG $325k payday' for his-and-her interview on Watch What Happens Live
          
          Spoke about prison
        








          Before their Hollywood makeovers: The transformation of Margot Robbie, Eva Longoria and even Russell Crowe
          
          SPONSORED BY CW
        








          'I think separation is key to a relationship': Gone Girl star Rosamund Pike says women have 'ridiculous' expectations of marriage
          









          She's always been pretty! Emily Ratajkowski shows natural beauty as a fresh faced teenager in old school yearbook photos
          









          Chris Martin 'buys house across the street from ex Gwyneth Paltrow so they can spend equal time with the kids' 
          
          Home in the Brentwood neighbourhood of LA
        








          His dream house is done! Mark Wahlberg's 30,000-square-foot Beverly Park mansion appears move-in ready... after FIVE YEARS of planning
          












          She's got the look! Miranda Kerr shows off supermodel figure in racy cut-out bikini
          
          Posing for what appears to be a brief promotional video for one of her favourite brands
        








          'I'm not African-American and I don't want to be labeled gay': Raven Symone loathes being categorized... but is happy with model AzMarie 
          









          'Mila was born to be a mum!' Kunis and Ashton Kutcher 'ecsatic' as they introduce daughter Wyatt to their friends
          
          Baby girl was born last week to famous pair
        








          'He didn't have a mask...' Jessica Simpson's husband Eric Johnson wears UNDERWEAR on his head at sister Ashlee's 30th party
          









          Make-up free Zoe Saldana hides her bump in all-black outfit as she prepares for her twins arrival
          
          Who needs makeup when you have a  pregnancy glow
        








          Hold on tight! Naomi Watts straddles Demolition co-star Jake Gyllenhaal for a piggyback ride as they goof around on set
          
          Filming at Coney Island
        








          'My party days are over!' Holly Madison shows her maternal side as she cuddles baby Rainbow in magazine shoot
          
          Mother of 18-month-old 
        








          Missing Selena? Justin Bieber looks wistful at romantic landmark in Florence after 'breaking up with Gomez'
          
          Looked downtrodden during solo outing 
        








          Britney Spears looks carefree as she flashes her toned midriff in cropped tank-top and shorts
          
          She doesn't need Ordinary Dave
        








          She sure loves her Booty! Jennifer Lopez looks incredible as she showcases famous derriere in slouchy black trousers
          
          Spotted in Beverly Hills
        











          Suki Waterhouse offsets cute shimmering dress with kooky leopard print leather jacket at Love, Rosie premiere
          
          The model is newly brunette
        








          Tickling her funny bone! Orange Is The New Black's Natasha Lyonne hoots with laughter as Fred Armisen whisks her off after date
          









          The perfect workout! Sofia Vergara STILL looks stylish after gym session with glossy hair and skin-tight leopard-print leggings
          
          Perfectly preened as ever
        








          Channing Tatum enjoys a break from filming Magic Mike XXL to hit the beach with wife Jenna Dewan and daughter Everly 
          
          He's filming the sequel
        








          Not long to go! Rachel Bilson shows off her bump in striped maternity tank as she grabs smoothies with Hayden Christensen
          
          Final weeks of pregnancy can drag
        








          Jennifer Garner displays her long legs in elegant LBD at Alexander And The Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day premiere
          









          That's not Mike Comrie! Hilary Duff shares a passionate kiss with Norwegian actor Thorbjorn Harr for TV's Younger
          
           Premieres in January
        








          'Exercise helps': Pregnant Kelly Rowland shows off her bump as she strips NAKED just weeks away from giving birth... and talks prenatal fitness
          









          Sarah Hyland's abusive ex Matthew 'has to stay away from her AND their pet dog Barkley' as restraining order is granted
          
          Must be 100 yards away
        








          She knows how to take control! Amanda Seyfried gets behind the wheel to film Ted 2 with Mark Wahlberg... as Molly Sims shows off her baby bump on set
          









          Lil' Kim faces lawsuit after 'skipping meet and greet with fans at gay nightclub' in Florida before 20-minute gig
          
          Friction with operators of Florida nightclub
        








          Brooklyn Decker and Patrick Wilson show how awkward it is to film a sex scene: Toe- curling behind-the-scenes clip from Stretch
          









          Is she friends with Khloe? Melanie Griffith hits the same Beverly Hills gym frequented by Kardashian 
          
          The blonde recently split from Antonio Banderas.
        








          Stripping for stardom! Chelsea Handler flashes her breast on Twitter in publicity stunt to promote upcoming SiriusXM interview
          
          Trying out shock tactics
        








          Must be love! Arnold Schwarzenegger allows girlfriend Heather Milligan to drive on joyride in his $2M Bugatti Veyon car 
          
          Trusted her with the ride
        








           Soldiering on! Kris Jenner looks fabulous in black and white as she puts heartwrenching interview about her love life behind her
          
          She managed a smile
        








          Is that you, Rumer? Ms Willis is almost unrecognizable as she assumes Aussie accent in Baz Luhrmann inspired musical
          
          Had the crowd laughing
        








          Bust-ing a move! Demi Lovato amplifies her cleavage in a Dominatrix style bustier as she rocks out on stage in Canada 
          
          She just started her tour
        








          'I know you cheated motherf***er!' Mariah Carey sings the reason why she and husband Nick Cannon split during Japanese concert  
          
          Two months since split
        








          'I need to knock back a few drinks to let loose': Jessica Chastain bares a lot of skin for sexy new Interview as she confesses she's a wallflower at parties
          









          We Dem Boyz! Wiz Khalifa is on daddy duty looking after son Sebastian as estranged wife Amber Rose celebrates her new found single status
          









          'Dad is more strict with me': Nicole Richie's 16-year-old sister Sofia on growing up in the  star's rebellious shadow
          
          Daughter of Lionel Richie and his ex wife
        








          Is this what Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds' child will look like? Face morphing software offers a peek at couple's future baby
          
          Expecting their first child
        








          Blake Lively posts an intimate snap of her bump as she confirms she is pregnant with husband Ryan Reynolds's baby
          
          Been married two years
        








          'Heard the news?' Sarah Jessica Parker appears to confirm reports that a third Sex And The City movie is in the works
          
          Actress is almost 50
        








          Just when she thought she'd lost it! Drew Barrymore sports an impressive fake baby bump on Yorkshire set of Miss You Already
          
          She got into character
        








          Michael J. Fox's foundation launches multi-million lawsuit against laboratory who 'left freezer door open' destroying important Parkinson's research samples
          









          Khloe Kardashian gets metallic neck tattoo (don't worry, it's temporary)... but still hasn't removed that Lamar Odom love ink
          
          Still has LO on her hand
        








          Kendall Jenner sashays down the sidewalk in a cool biker jacket and stylish trousers as she heads out in NYC
          
          Nailed her catwalk strut
        








          Kelly Clarkson looks gorgeous in new portrait taken with daughter River Rose on the set of a music video
          
          She's at work on another album
        








          Tyra Banks, 40, looks flawless on Good Morning America as she promotes a new makeup line
          
          She has modeled for over 20 years
        








          Starting fresh: Paula Patton loads up on Farmers Market fare with son Julian in the wake of split from Robin Thicke 
          
          They split 8 months ago
        








          Red hot! Lily Collins matches the carpet in a crimson turtleneck gown with open back at Love, Rosie premiere
          
          She stole the limelight in the provocative gown
        








          Simon Cowell can't resist a cheeky cigarette as he takes to the red carpet with Lauren Silverman at Pride of Britain Awards
          
          A night off daddy duties
        








          Former glamour model turned Swedish royal bride gets a Kate-style makeover as she poses for new engagement snap with Prince Carl Philip
          









          The Good Wife actor Alan Cumming reveals his tormented childhood that led to a nervous breakdown in new book
          
          'My father held me down like an animal', he says
        








          Blood soaked Katherine Heigl strips down to her underwear as she plays a murderous housewife in Home Sweet Hell trailer
          
          Watch the trailer here
        








          'A way to let the movie live on': Jon Favreau says he wants to open a restaurant to sell the decadent Cuban sandwiches seen in Chef
          









          Michael Phelps is suspended from USA Swimming-sanctioned events for six months and will withdraw from the World Championships 
          









          Meet the woman who says she's TOO PRETTY for dating websites: Size two blonde thinks it's easier for unattractive women to find a man online
          









          'It's fall, y'all!' Jenna Bush Hager shares sweet photo of baby Mila's first trip to the pumpkin patch 
          
          Their 18-month-old child is ready for Halloween
        








          Spend time together, say 'I love you' often and ALWAYS communicate: Centenarians offer their advice for a successful marriage
          
          They are the experts
        








          Baywatch's Nicole Eggert reveals her new career as an ice cream truck driver as she dishes out treats
          
          Filed for bankruptcy for the third time in 2013
        








          Bruce Jenner goes for a less glamorous look while grocery shopping in Malibu... day after showing off a feminine hairstyle at concert
          
          Looked sporty in neon
        








          OutFoxed! Megan faces new Botox accusations as German fans struggle to recognize her thanks to her wrinkle-free face
          
          A very taught visage
        








          'Beautiful dreamer!' Kaley Cuoco takes the jump in uplifting T-shirt while horseback riding at the equestrian center
          
          She is a born performer  with acting - and horses
        








          The price of modesty: Game of Thrones bosses 'burn through $200,000 keeping Lena Headey's naked body under wraps'
          
          The spent $50K per day
        








          Carey Mulligan reveals grandmother's fight with Alzheimer's and heartbreak that beloved 'Nans' no longer recognizes her
          
          Carey's family trauma
        








          Heidi Klum channels '60s French siren Brigitte Bardot with sexy throwback photo taken decades ago
          
          She's a mom of four and a German supermodel
        








          'We are absolutely thrilled and elated!' Coco Rocha reveals she is expecting her first child with husband James Conran
          
          Supermodel to be mom
        








          'It's happening again': Twin Peaks creator David Lynch confirms his cult classic show is set to return with a new series
          
          Hit show from the '90s
        








          Cheryl Fernandez-Versini opts for a demure lace dress as she joins the UK's A-listers at the glamour at Pride of Britain Awards 
          









          That's one way to give him a lift: Sexy Kim Kardashian wears a little white vest as she picks up husband Kanye West from the airport
          
          What a welcome home
        








          Take that Martha Stewart! Gwyneth Paltrow hires the lifestyle guru's former executive for GOOP
          
          Martha previously dissed Paltrow's company
        








          Pregnant Liv Tyler keeps any signs of a bump covered as she takes son Milo to school in New York
          
          She is expecting her second child
        








          Quick change! Tom Hardy showcases his buff body and extensive tattoo collection as he strips off in Hollywood
          
          The actor swapped his shirt after shopping
        








          A pouting Amanda Bynes cuts a glamorous figure as she rides a Citi Bike around the streets of NYC after DUI arrest
          
          Enjoyed the fall sunshine in the city
        








          Teresa Giudice 'infuriates co-stars as she arrives more than FOUR hours late' to RHONJ reunion
          
          She's been sentenced to 15 months in prison
        








          'She can't sing anymore... at all!' Mariah Carey's vocals are mocked by fans as she kicks off Elusive Chanteuse tour in Tokyo
          
          Vocals heavily criticized
        








          Twin set: Cindy Crawford, 48, and her doppelganger daughter Kaia, 13, breeze through LAX in matching outfits
          
          The glamorous duo look more like sisters
        








          'Happy Birthday!': Arrow star Stephen Amell helps wife Cassandra Jean turn 29 as they celebrate with their daughter Mavi
          
          Final  year of  his 20s
        








          Sleeping beauty: Hilaria Baldwin shares a sweet photo of baby Carmen taking a nap during their European adventure
          
          Posted a photo while watching her sleep 
        








          She can't stop! Miley Cyrus flashes her black lace bra in a racy sheer shirt as she rocks TINY hotpants at Paloma Faith gig
          
          Had a night out in LA
        








          Edge Factor: Ellie Goulding rocks a printed jersey and black Doc Martens as she arrives at The UK X Factor studios to pass on some words of wisdom 
          









          Leggy lady! Halle Berry steps out in denim shorts as she takes time out to enjoy a pampering session
          
          The mother of two still has her model figure
        








          Forgetting something? Karrueche Tran steps out in just a shirt to celebrate Christina Milian's birthday with boyfriend Chris Brown  
          
          Has a provocative style
        








          Babymoon time! Pregnant Zoe Saldana shows off her beautiful bump in white top and grey leggings during mini-break with husband Marco Perego
          









          'Look how fabulous I was!' Kim Zolciak bares her taut midriff in photos from before and after her tummy tuck
          
          Took to Facebook to hit back at critics
        








          Shirt to turn heads: Jennifer Lopez wears an oversized blouse under a sexy sweater dress to dine with a hunky pal
          
          She dined out in style in West Hollywood
        








          A family affair: Lindsay Lohan pouts away as she is supported by her mother Dina and siblings Ali and Michael Jr. backstage at her London play
          









          As heiress Tamara Ecclestone reveals that she doesn't know what toast is JAN MOIR asks Why are so many reality TV stars one slice short of a full loaf? 
          









          Amal Alamuddin as you've NEVER seen her before: Mrs Clooney immortalized as a Simpson to celebrate her impeccable wedding wardrobe 
          









          'It makes me really sad': Kris Jenner reveals her sorrow over the death of her first husband Robert Kardashian as she chats to Giuliana Rancic
          









          Feeling broody? Leonardo DiCaprio shows off his paternal side as he plays the doting godfather to Tobey Maguire's daughter Ruby
          









          She's young at heart! Rita Ora dons Mickey Mouse ears hat as she steps out in London 
          
          The singer was looking very playful in the Disney -inspired hat
        








          Ooh La La! Paris Hilton goes Halloween shopping for a French maid outfit at the Trashy Lingerie store in West Hollywood
          
          Less than a month to go
        








          She's back! CIA agent Carrie Mathison gets over Brody (and ditches their baby) as Homeland returns to its political thriller roots
          
          New series debut
        








          'This is not an easy time for me': Real Housewives of Atlanta's Porsha Williams shocked to be demoted to 'friend' status
          
          A staple of the show
        








          Lady Gaga steps out in yellow slip dress and black curly wig as she touches down in Cologne 
          
          Gaga wore the massive wig in Germany
        








          Gwyneth Paltrow calls in a psychic: Recently separated actress asks for help to 'heal, expand' and deepen her 'understanding of life's mysteries'
          









          Good for his sole? Chris Martin opts to go barefoot as he sports casual attire for a solo shopping trip at his local supermarket
          
          Dating Jen Lawrence
        








          Newly-single Amber Rose steps out for another night on the town in semi sheer T-shirt dress as she parties with mystery male
          









          Shamed Dior designer, John Galliano, sacked and charged for racist slurs in 2011, is appointed the creative director of Maison Martin Margiela
          









          Down day! Ryan Reynolds ditches the clean-cut look and shows off rugged beard as he steps out in a dragon print sweater
          
          He's about to be a dad
        








          'I don't pay any attention to the pressure!' Justin Theroux on how he and Jennifer Aniston are 'doing our own thing'
          
          Discussed their love life 
        








          Richard Gere and co-star Jena Malone cuddle up to each other on the red carpet at the Time Out Of Mind premiere
          
          Shared a warm embrace
        




















 
 
DON'T MISS







          The Kimye and Khaleesi effect! Kardashian-Wests' honeymoon and Game of Thrones boosted tourism in Ireland by 11%
          
          Love the Emerald Isle
        








          Cuddling co-stars... Malin Akerman steps out in hotpants as she embraces on-screen husband Dan Stevens
          
          Starring alongside each other in the The Ticket
        








          Keeping his eyes on the prize... Newlywed Ashley Tisdale sports hotpants for a workout with husband Christopher French
          
          They wed this summer
        








          Glee creator Ryan Murphy and husband David Miller announce the birth of second son Ford via surrogate
          
          The couple even got to cut the umbilical cord
        








          Specs appeal! Stephanie Pratt is almost unrecognizable in thick black glasses for DVD launch
          
          The reality star has a new geek chic look
        








          Tres chic! Nicole Scherzinger looks effortlessly stylish in all-black ensemble as she promotes her new album in Paris
          
          Dressed all in black
        








          Fit for a beauty queen! Newly engaged Nia Sanchez can't stop smiling as she flashes her two-carat diamond sparkler 
          
          She's Miss USA 2014
        








          Kelly Brook has been 'texting ex-boyfriend Thom Evans' after messy split from fiance David McIntosh
          
          She's single and ready to mingle (with her ex)
        








          'He's turning on the charm:' Orlando Bloom sets his sites on Margot Robbie and showers her with gifts and flowers in a bid to get date
          
          He likes Australians
        








          Just an ordinary girl! Kendall Jenner goes makeup-free in jeans and trainers after dominating the fashion week circuit
          
          Future as a model? 
        








          Make-up free Uma Thurman puts her best foot forward while trying on trainers at a SoHo boutique in New York
          
          Seen going into the Adidas store
        








          Already married? Courteney Cox and Johnny McDaid spark talk they've tied the knot as the rocker flashes a platinum band during a romantic New York stroll
          









          The morning after: Dakota Fanning goes from red carpet glamour to low key chic as she arrives at BBC studios
          
          She stepped out in Manchester
        








          Hairway to heaven! One Direction's Harry Styles tames his curly mane with a stylish braid and a man bun
          
          Never one to shy away from a trend
        








          Purple delight... Padma Lakshmi stuns in an asymmetrical form fitting gown as she heads to a private event 
          
          Remembering her modelling roots
        








          Plaid to the bone! Amanda Seyfried and Mark Wahlberg keep cosy in coordinated lumberjack outfits while filming a Ted 2 scene in Times Square
          









          Simply monochrome chic! Lily Collins shows off her slender legs in a patterned mini skirt and matching blazer as she promotes her new film Love, Rosie
          









          Richard Curtis reveals he WAS against Hugh Grant taking the lead role in Four Weddings And A Funeral... but only because he was 'too good looking'
          









          Look, no ring, as Rupert Murdoch's daughter gets set for a  $415 million split from global PR guru Matthew Freud 
          
          After 13 years togther 
        








          Megan Fox oozes sex appeal in a fitted corset dress at Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles premiere 
          
          Put on an affectionate show with husband Brian Austin Green
        








          Charles Saatchi heads back to THAT infamous London restaurant where he fought with Nigella... but takes girlfriend Trinny Woodall
          
          Couple dined in Mayfair
        








          Enjoy Dame Maggie Smith's acerbic one-liners on Downton Abbey app containing ALL the best quotes from the series (most of them are hers, naturally)
          









          VIDEO EXCLUSUVE: Peaky Blinders creator Steve Knight is praised for strong female characters
          
          British TV series is available on Netflix in US
        








          Chris Martin hits the surf in Malibu... after being spotted 'kissing' Jennifer Lawrence at a Kings Of Leon concert in Los Angeles
          
          His new romance
        








          Emma Roberts stuns in a revealing black gown as she leads the stars at American Horror Story: Freak Show premiere
          
          She stepped out on the red carpet in black 
        








          From choir geek to circus freak? Lea Michele fuels rumors of American Horror Story: Freak Show cameo as she steals the spotlight at premiere
          









          Jaime King kicks off her son's first birthday celebrations a day early with a trip to the park in Los Angeles with her husband and pals
          
          Milestone first birthday
        








          The Spotlight is on! Rachel McAdams and Michael Keaton suit up to play reporters as they film scenes for new movie
          
          Filming in Toronto
        








          Elizabeth Hurley is a vision in pink lace dress for Estée Lauder's breast cancer awareness campaign as she receives a friendly squeeze from Emma Thompson
          









          City of Folsom celebrates infamous connection to the Man In Black with $3.8m Johnny Cash Trail and Overpass built to look like the prison's towers
          









          I was a grave robber and a rent boy, admits Depardieu: Gerard reveals details of his troubled past in autobiography
          
          Revealed former life
        








          First a meat dress, now it's carats: Lady Gaga glitters as she steps out in Prague with a gold leaf design across her forehead
          
          An unusual sight
        








          For the baby who has everything! North West's doll collection is revealed... featuring mini versions of Kim, Kanye and the 15-month-old baby
          









          Khloe Kardashian keeps a low profile as she drives the Jeep that French Montana gave her... following his divorce settlement
          
          Nice parting gift
        








          Because he's worth it: Bruce Jenner shows off his new shiny layered hairdo at Elton John's concert in Hollywood
          
          He's single after splitting from Kris Jenner
        








          Another day, another coffee run: Eddie Murphy and Paige Butcher leave their favorite cafe with full trays of beverages
          
          At the Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf in Studio City
        








          Cara Santana wears funky floral trousers as she helps boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe take his mind off Dallas cancellation at event
          
          Turned it into a date    
        








          'The last time I was seven and now I have two kids': Russell Crowe celebrates Australian rugby team's first win in 43 years
          
          Had his sons by his side
        








          Time to rehydrate! Melanie Griffith looks slender in her workout gear as she guzzles water after working up a sweat at yoga class
          
          She is recently single 
        








          Kathy Griffin resists the urge to fully embrace her inner diva at Best In Drag Show... but doesn't disappoint with humongous hair
          
          Perfectly put-together 
        








          Iggy Azalea attempts to go incognito in a large fedora... but is swarmed by fans shortly as she touches down in LA
          
          The rapper tried to make a low key arrival
        








          Red Hot day! Anthony Kiedis enjoys family life as he takes his model girlfriend and young son veggie shopping in Malibu in 95F heat
          
          Battled the heatwave
        








          To tie-dye for! Amy Adams looks lovely in a flowing printed dress as she does some shopping with Darren and Aviana
          
          Low-key family time 
        








          Kim Cattrall and Lucy Liu step into fall with fashionable coats at opening night on Broadway
          
          The actresses made stylish arrivals 
        








          They beat Alabama and they liked it! Fans STEAL goal posts after Ole Miss victory while star supporter Katy Perry is filmed downing beers and crowd-surfing
          









          Liz Hurley speaks out about the pain caused by her grandmother's death from breast cancer - and urges more women to be aware of the disease
          









          That's a fine bit of casting! Stephen Colbert goes fishing with Republican Jack Kingston in the Capitol Reflecting Pool
          
          In Washington DC
        








          On the prowl! Ladies man Leonardo DiCaprio drives off with a mystery woman after partying at an LA nightspot
          
          He is rumored to be a free agent again
        








          Amanda Peet disguises her baby bump in a chic shift dress at American Horror Story: Freak Show premiere
          
          Expecting her third child 
        








          'An unfortunate hair choice!' Kate Walsh pokes fun at her wild blonde bob in '90s flashback photo
          
          The 46-year-old took to Twitter to share the look
        








          Can you feel the love tonight? Ashlee Simpson and Evan Ross are the picture of newlywed bliss after Elton John concert
          
          Deliriously happy couple
        








          It's his year! Corey Stoll and girlfriend Nadia Bowers get engaged as busy actor lands recurring role on hit show Homeland
          
          High-profile acting roles 
        








          'She's 100 per cent single': Gigi Hadid 'is just good friends with Joe Jonas' despite dating rumors
          
          The model is focusing on her career
        








          Fancy meeting you here! Nicolas Cage chats with on-screen wife Sarah Wayne Callies on set of Pay The Ghost in Canada
          
          His on-screen wife 
        








          New Nightcrawler trailer shows Jake Gyllenhaal as a news cameraman descending into madness
          
          With just four weeks until general release
        








          Time to escape! Kristen Stewart keeps a low profile in a baseball cap and sunglasses as she jets into New York 
          
          Ex has been parading his new romance 
        








          Raring to go! Beaming Sadie Robertson pairs her trademark Quack Pack grey T-shirt with black shorts for DWTS rehearsal
          
          Ready to give it her all
        








          I'm not Gone Girl! Ben Affleck kisses wife Jennifer Garner as he takes time out from promoting new movie to be with his family
          
          The two actors cuddled 
        








          Fast food friends! Alfonso Ribeiro hugs Karate Kid star Ralph Macchio in new Wendy's advert
          
          They are pop culture icons and love fast food
        








          Trying to win her back? Justin Bieber posts a photo of Selena Gomez kissing his bicep on Instagram... days after she unfollowed him 
          
          Taken on romantic break
        








          George Clooney pushes the boat out for Thames love nest
          
          Bought a multi-million-pound house in Oxfordshire, not far from Downton Abbey 
        








          Shia LaBeouf 'repeatedly slashed his own face with a knife' while filming... his Fury co-star reveals
          
          Shia LaBeouf took his role very seriously 
        








          Back on the market? A fresh-faced Amber Valletta ditches her wedding ring and passionately kisses a hunky mystery man after a trip to the gym
          









          A dame to run for! Sin City star Jamie Chung sets a new personal record after completing the Nike Marathon in Paris
          
          Crossed the finish line 
        








          Just good friends? Nick Simmons denies romance with Amber Rose after the pair were spotted 'dirty dancing' together
          
          Denied they are dating
        








          So that's how she stays so trim! Alessandra Ambrosio shows off her svelte shape at yoga before she shops for veggies
          
          She is 5ft 9ins and lithe
        








          Sienna Miller wows in a colorful frock to support fiancé Tom Sturridge at Effie Gray premiere... as he talks about having more children 
          









          Sealed with a kiss! Heidi Klum greets her estranged husband Seal with a peck on the cheek as they support children at soccer match
          









          Ooh la la! Marion Cotillard is a French fancy at screening of her Oscar-tipped film Two Days One Night at New York Film Festival
          
          She is tipped for awards 
        








          Heavy lifting! Chris Pratt displays  his bulging biceps in a tight T-shirt as he carries his luggage through LAX
          
          For his role of Star Lord in the mega movie 
        








          The couple that works together! Charlize Theron is directed by boyfriend Sean Penn in Cape Town on set of The Last Face
          
          Dating earlier this year
        








          Buffy the basketball player: Sarah Michelle Gellar shows off her skills as she hosts charity event at the Santa Monica pier
          
          She's a sporty star     
        








          Her little pumpkin! Selma Blair gets ready for Halloween with son Arthur in LA
          
          Picked up an unconventional greyish white pumpkin 
        








          Dressed down Lea Michele is upstaged by her preppy boyfriend Matthew Paetz as they arrive at luxury Beverly Hills hotel
          
          She's found love again
        








          Too posh to pump! Kim Kardashian orders a little help as she refuses to get out of her car at the gas station 
          
          The star looked for a helping hand
        








          Keeping up with mommy! Kourtney Kardashian dresses up mini-me daughter Penelope in cute animal-printed pants for a low key dinner date
          









          Home to Bing Crosby and secret hideaway for JFK and Marilyn Monroe: Inside the California ranch that has played host to A-listers for decades
          









          The too-tight saga! Kristen Stewart struggles to bend down in skinny jeans after dropping her car keys during snack run
          
          Spray-on jeans
        








          'The definition of a blessing':  Lindsay Lohan gets support from 'fairy godmother' Oprah Winfrey backstage at her London play
          
          Oprah was beaming 
        








          'Lucky me': Pregnant Kourtney Kardashian cuddles with precious daughter Penelope in sleepy Instagram shot
          
          A snap shared by the pregnant 35-year-old 
        








          She can't shake him off! Taylor Swift poses with fans at another album listening party... as dad Scott leaps in for a photobomb
          
          Makes time for her fans
        








          DOWNTON ABBEY SPOILER ALERT There's something about Lady Mary! Sex mad 'English Rose' is carrying the entire show, writes Jim Shelley 
          









          Grown-ups only! Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner look so in love on their lunch date as they take break from parental duties
          
          Appeared in high spirits 
        








          Furious Ben Affleck blasts Bill Maher and guests on-air after they claimed Islam is the 'motherload of bad ideas' and compared religion to being in Mafia
          









          Nicole Richie shows off her lean pins in skimpy denim shorts as she takes her children on a shopping spree in LA
          
          The 33-year-old was seen out with her kids
        








          Looking good for the cause! Lauren Silverman dazzles in an evening gown as she attends a children's hospice charity ball with Simon Cowell
          









          Dakota Fanning steals the spotlight in a fringed suede minidress with matching red lipstick at Effie Gray world premiere
          
          Red hot on red carpet
        








          Mario Lopez says he 'wasn't in love' with Ali Landry when he cheated before two-week marriage... and lost his virginity at 12 
          
          Revealed in his memoir
        








          'Took three washes to get this off!' Jessica Simpson jokes about her glam silver make-up for her sister Ashlee's 30th birthday bash
          
          Was ready to celebrate
        








          Red hot! Rumer Willis shows off her trim figure in a backless dress while leaving Chateau Marmont with actor Cameron Monaghan
          
          Daughter of Demi Moore
        








          Prince Philip is praised for his 'raging intellect': Leading artist defends Duke against critics after spending hours with him when he painted his portrait 
          









          Not letting his injury be too much of a Payne! One Direction's Liam shows off arm cast as he heads to the movies in a fedora and jeans
          
          Nursing a broken arm
        








          She's rolling in it: Singer Adele 'earning $120,000 a day'... even though she hasn't released an album in four years
          
          26-year-old high earner
        








          Give us a kiss! David Beckham gets a smooch from 'beautiful wife' Victoria as they celebrate his new branded whisky
          
          Joined her beau
        








          'My weight was always an issue': Australian 'plus size' model Robyn Lawley accuses industry of encouraging 'starvation' and reveals pressure to be thin
          









          Not a Problem! Iggy Azalea shrugs off haters as she commands the stage at Austin City Limits Festival  
          
          She's had her share of detractors
        








          She's on the case: Rebel Wilson has her hands full with heavy luggage as she arrives back in LA after filming in Canada
          
          28-year-old actress
        








          Happy in her hoodie! Nicole Scherzinger wears bejewelled zip-up top as she takes to the stage to perform in France
          
          Jetting around the globe
        








          Are Teresa and Joe heading for divorce? Giudice couple 'growing distant and feeling the strain' after being sentenced to jail
          
          Growing 'distant' 
        








          Teri Hatcher, 49, displays her long legs in skinny jeans as she enjoys a dinner date with daughter Emerson
          
          Teri Hatcher was seen going to dinner 
        








          Amanda Bynes looks disheveled with bandage on her face as she smokes a cigarette in New York... after being spotted 'talking to inanimate objects'
          









          Simply sizzling at 74! A youthful Tina Turner makes rare public appearance as she parties with husband Erwin Bach at Germany's Oktoberfest
          









          Professor Green slaps 'drunk' student in the face at Durham University freshers' ball after he throws insults at him during show
          
          Drunken student swore
        








          Who knew they were friends! Unlikely celebrity pals Danny Dyer and Donna Air hang out at video game launch
          
          Cockney wide-boy 
        








          'Are you serious, me in heaven?' Sarah Silverman does an uncanny impersonation of the late Joan Rivers as she hosts SNL
          
          Full SNL treatment 
        








          Back together! Bella Thorne rekindles romance with Tristan Klier after one month split and agrees to be his Homecoming date
          
          Bouquet of red roses
        








          He's got the moo-ves! Bill Murray shows off his dance skills in cow print pants while Damien Lewis rocks out as they take to the stage at golf gala
          









          Ready to move on? Bruce Jenner gets spruced up to take mystery brunette to Elton John concert
          
          Split almost a year ago 
        








          'I bit off more than I could chew': Charlie Hunnam reflects on 'painful' decision to pull out of 50 Shades Of Grey
          
          Set tongues wagging 
        








          Demi Moore and daughter Tallulah enjoy some quality time at lunch in coordinating tomboy chic outfits
          
          She's been supporting her troubled daughter
        








          Kathy Bates and Angela Bassett shine at event just four days before hotly-anticipated premiere of American Horror Story: Freak Show
          









          Gwen Stefani continues 45th birthday celebrations with a relaxed family outing to the park 
          
          Seen on a nice, quiet family outing 
        








          Keeping Up With Kendall: Willow and Jaden Smith put on their coats to visit their Jenner pal in chilly New York City
          
          Saturday night fun 
        








          South Sydney's celebrity supporters: Victoria's Secret model Erin Heatherton, Snoop Dogg and other A-listers cheer on the Rabbitohs to victory
          











 
 
Today's headlines


 
 
Most Read









American man, 19, 'attempting to go join ISIS' arrested at Chicago airport after telling his parents 'PLEASE...





Dallas Ebola victim's stepdaughter - who took him to hospital as he was 'vomiting wildly' - is given all...





Spanish nurse who treated Ebola victim in Madrid becomes first person in the world to contract virus outside...





US Ebola patient gets experimental anti-viral drug as he continues to fight for his life





Is that fence to keep people out or the patients in? U.S. troops set up at first Ebola field hospital in...





'We thought he was crazy and begged him not to go back': Parents of NBC reporter with Ebola reveal how he...





Obama's new airport screening plan uses CUSTOMS AGENTS to spot Ebola as president concedes that 'we don't...





Teenager with 'Ebola-like' symptoms quarantined in Miami after falling sick while on holiday from West...





Jacksonville Jaguars come under fire after mascot holds up sign about EBOLA to mock NFL rivals' 'Terrible...





Dallas Weekly magazine publishes horribly ill-timed cover promoting a 'Taste of Africa' as first US Ebola...





Two friends of high school swimming star among FIVE teens charged with his murder after 'drug deal gone...





Six kids with six mothers, allegations of rape at a 'booze-fulled orgy with his underage brother'  and tens...





The terrible truth about cannabis: British expert's devastating 20-year study finally demolishes claims that...





A Florida man wore a 'f*** the police' shirt to court hearing against state troopers — then won his case





Construction worker has his thumb bitten off after putting hand inside tiger cage at Florida animal...





'My father held me down like an animal, wielding a rusty pair of clippers used on the sheep... they cut my...





Tennis coach, 27, at Catholic high school arrested after having 'sexual relationship with 15-year-old team...





Occupy Wall Street activist 'threatened to kill police officer's family' after intervening when two...





Stuck for words? How saying 'um' or 'er' in conversation can reveal a lot about who you are





Think yourself younger: Assume your wits will fade with age? Wrong! You can be smarter and happier than ever...





Kurdish mother-of-two launches suicide attack to slow Islamic State advance in desperate battle for Kobane





H&M apologises after being accused of modelling £15 khaki outfit on uniform worn by Kurdish female fighters...





How American captive Peter Kassig converted to Islam in ISIS captivity and now prays five times a day under...





'Where are they getting all these folks from?' Author Naomi Wolf is condemned for suggesting ISIS hostages...





Face-off at the Turkish border: Tanks mass as chilling pictures show black flag of ISIS raised in Syrian...





White House dances around questions about truth behind Biden's claim that Turkey and the UAE inadvertently...





Former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta warns America faces a '30-year war' against ISIS and other emerging...





First bendgate... now it's HAIRGATE: iPhone 6 owners claim design is causing chunks of their hair to be...





Would you pay $100,000 for a prototype iPhone 6 that can't even make calls? eBay bidding war over rare...





MORE HEADLINES







 
            Patriots cheerleaders reduce Bengals' Devon Still to tears after touching tribute to his young daughter who is battling cancer
            



 
            Teenager with 'Ebola-like' symptoms quarantined in Miami after falling sick while on holiday from West Africa
            



 
            'You drive a better car than me!': The moment charitable worker spots 'homeless' elderly panhandler he gives money to every day... and she's in a brand new Fiat 
            



 
            Furious Ben Affleck blasts Bill Maher and guests on-air after they claimed Islam is the 'motherload of bad ideas' and compared religion to being in the Mafia
            



 
            Internet troll who targeted McCanns found dead in hotel room days after fleeing home when she was revealed to be behind online campaign of vitriol
            



 
            Somebody's Mum: Facebook campaign to get Sky reporter who exposed Maddie McCann troll sacked - after she is found dead in hotel room
            



 
            American man, 19, 'attempting to go join ISIS' arrested at Chicago airport after telling his parents 'PLEASE MAKE SURE NOT TO TELL THE AUTHORITIES'
            



 
            I'm bisexual and use male prostitutes admits honeymoon murder accused: But he denies plot to have bride shot in taxi ambush 
            



 
            iCloud hacker releases fourth wave of celebrity nudes - including Winona Ryder and the first male victim
            



 
            Athlete who spent a year training for gruelling 140-mile triathlon missed it on the day because he overslept
            



 
            The terrible truth about cannabis: British expert's devastating 20-year study finally demolishes claims that smoking pot is harmless 
            



 
            Kurdish mother-of-two launches suicide attack to slow Islamic State advance in desperate battle for Kobane
            



 
            Mexico hit by student massacre: At least 17 anti-corruption protesters 'rounded up, murdered and dumped in a mass grave' - and another 26 are missing
            



 
            Khorosan group will strike U.S. 'very, very soon' warns FBI director as he admits 12 American ISIS fighters cannot be stopped from coming back home
            



 
            First pictures of transsexual wife murdered and cooked by her chef husband who then slashed his throat as police arrived 
            



 
            The homeless man who caused Ebola panic in Dallas: Vagrant who wandered off while he was meant to be under observation for virus captured after frantic search - and will now be held against his will
            



 
            'We thought he was crazy and begged him not to go back': Parents of NBC reporter with Ebola reveal how he refused to listen to pleas to stay in the U.S. as they meet his air ambulance in Nebraska
            



 
            'My father held me down like an animal, wielding a rusty pair of clippers used on the sheep... they cut my skin.' The Good Wife actor Alan Cumming reveals his tormented childhood that led to a nervous breakdown in new book
            



 
            $300million female Lucas Oil founder and Colts backer launches bizarre Facebook tirade against Muslims and minorities who are 'running' America
            



 
            Face-off at the Turkish border: Tanks mass as chilling pictures show black flag of ISIS raised in Syrian town just one mile away
            



 
            The toddler who went to bed with pink eye and was dead from enterovirus 68 the next morning: Parents pay tribute to 'beautiful and perfect son' as doctors hunt for answers 
            



 
            I was a grave robber and a RENT BOY, admits Depardieu: Actor reveals details of his troubled past in autobiography
            



 
            NFL player Marshawn Lynch's accuser could spend a year in jail for falsely claiming the Seahawks running back punched her... but actually she 'drunkenly fell on her face'
            



 
            Dallas Ebola victim's stepdaughter - who took him to hospital as he was 'vomiting wildly' - is given all clear to return to work as nursing assistant
            



 
            'I never thought in my wildest dreams I would look in the mirror and see the old me again': Heartwarming moment woman who was set alight by jealous wife removes her burns mask for the first time
            



 
            'Where are they getting all these folks from?' Author Naomi Wolf is condemned for suggesting ISIS hostages are ACTORS and be-headings aren't real
            



 
            Does this video prove Jahi McMath is NOT brain dead? Family release clip showing the 13-year-old moving her foot on command - claiming it proves she's still alive
            



 
            Obama's new airport screening plan uses CUSTOMS AGENTS to spot Ebola as president concedes that 'we don't have a lot of margin for error'
            



 
            TSA agents 'opened urn full of mother's ashes in airport security and spilled them' inside grieving son's baggage on trip to spread her remains in the Caribbean Sea
            


MOST READ IN DETAIL





















From the Makers of Candy Crush
Farm Heroes Saga, the #4 Game on iTunes. Play it now!



more
































Next story



      American man, 19, 'attempting to go join ISIS' arrested at Chicago airport after telling his parents 'PLEASE MAKE SURE NOT TO TELL THE AUTHORITIES'
    







92 comments
    










	SHARE PICTURE
      














Copy link to paste in your message





















Find out more...






Find out more...



























 
 
Back to top






Home




U.K.




News




Sports




U.S. Showbiz




Australia




Femail




Health




Science




Money




Video




Travel




Columnists







Sitemap
Archive
Video Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Our Papers
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
Evening Standard
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location
Villa Holidays


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies













 




 











 
 

















