Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days

Posted 3:21 pm, September 25, 2014, by Web Staff, Updated at 08:32pm, September 25, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo urged residents to continue searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham during a news conference Thursday afternoon.
Longo acknowledged there is “a lot is going on in this investigation” since Jesse Matthew, the primary suspect in Graham’s disappearance, was arrested camping on a beach in Galveston, Texas Wednesday afternoon.
“You know the trial process preparation will begin as we begin to move down this very long road, as I said last night,” Longo said.
Even thought Matthew has been arrested, the chief reiterated that Graham remains missing and the desperate search to find her continues.
“This bright, really intelligent, athletic, friendly, beautiful 18-year-old college student … is still missing. We have no idea exactly where she is, despite our best efforts,” Longo said.
Police are still questioning witnesses and gathering additional surveillance video from around the city.
The chief said Virginia Department of Emergency Management crews have covered most of the city as well as Carter’s Mountain. Additionally, officials will ask property owners for their permission to search larger parcels of land.
Longo also asked property owners to check their land for anything suspicion. He asked owners that have checked their land to call the Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851 or email CPDTips@charlottesville.org to let investigators cross those properties off the list.
“If you have seen tire tracks…that seem suspect, again, contact us,” Longo said. “We will make the assessment of what is relevant.”
The chief also asked for the help of Charlottesville-area realtors.
“If you are a realtor who serves the greater Charlottesville area, we are asking you to go to vacant properties to follow the same directives that we have asked property owners.”



Longo also said that if anyone stumbles upon evidence, like Graham’s missing iPhone 5S with a pink case, they should not touch it, but call police immediately.
“Don’t touch items you find, please don’t disturb them in any way,” he said.
Police are also focusing on the hours between early Saturday morning when Graham vanished and she was reported missing Sunday afternoon.
“We need to shrink the gap,” Longo said, referencing the large block of time where there is no known information.
The chief asked residents to come forward with any information that can help them piece together things that happened in that unaccounted block of time.
Longo pointed out that Matthew grew up in the area and that someone had told them that he liked to fish.
Accordingly, now investigators want someone to tell them where he liked to fish so they can check those areas.
Primary suspect in Graham disappearance arrested 
Jesse Matthew, a suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, will be returned to Virginia after waiving extradition from Texas.


Police: BREAKING #JesseMatthew will return to Cville this weekend and face a judge Monday morning tentatively at 9am #HannahGraham @CBS6
— Laura French (@lfrenchnews) September 25, 2014

Matthew was in a Texas court twice Thursday. The second time, Judge Michelle Slaughter in Galveston asked whether he wanted to fight extradition or would agree to be sent to Charlottesville, where he has been sought on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile.
Matthew agreed to the extradition.
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters that he thought Matthew would be moved Friday.
Earlier, Matthew appeared before Galveston County Judge Mark Henry on a charge of giving false information to a Texas peace officer.
Authorities found Matthew on a Galveston County beach some 1,300 miles from where he’s wanted in the disappearance.
Deputies were tipped off to Matthew’s whereabouts when they got a call about a suspicious person camping on the beach. One responded and ran the license plate of that person’s vehicle. It came back as wanted.
At the press conference Thursday, multiple reporters pushed Chief Longo concerning the relation of evidence in the Graham case to the Morgan Harrington case.
“Remain focused on Hannah until such time we can go further than that,” replied Longo, each time. He has indicated at multiple press events that there will be a “much longer road ahead.”
Hannah’s disappearance still boggles community
New missing person poster released reflects increased reward.
On the evening of September 12, she was seen at a party before friends saw her at an apartment complex a couple of blocks away from the party. That was shortly before midnight.
About 12:45 a.m. on September 13, a surveillance camera caught Graham outside of a pub, about three-quarters of a mile from the apartment complex. A doorman turned her away at the pub, Longo said Sunday.
Ten minutes later, she is seen running past a gas station — no one appears to be pursuing her — and witnesses say they saw her five minutes later roughly four blocks from the gas station.
The surveillance camera at an Italian cafe captured her walking along the pedestrian outdoor mall in downtown Charlottesville, about 1:06 a.m. The camera at a jewelry store recorded her passing two minutes later, with Matthew walking beside her, police said.
At 1:20 a.m. she texted her friends to say she was lost and trying to find a party. She was seen with a man said to be Matthew, having drinks at a bar between 1:30 and 2 a.m..
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
On how many warrants was Matthew a wanted man? 
Police officially released Matthew’s name on Sunday, Sept. 21, saying they believe he was having drinks with Graham.
“I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth,” the police chief said Sunday. “We want to talk to him.”
Graham and Matthew were seen leaving the bar together, and Matthew drove away in his Chrysler coupe that was parked near the bar, and police said they have “every reason to believe” Graham was in the car, too.
Matthew came into police headquarters on Saturday, Sept. 20, and asked to speak with a lawyer.
He hired James Camblos, the attorney said. But then Matthew left without speaking to police, or his lawyer. Police who were overtly following Matthew said he took off at such high speeds they could not safely pursue. At that point police issued two misdemeanor warrants for speeding.
Shortly thereafter he was named a person of interest. Then two days later, as forensic evidence came back to police, a felony arrest warrant was issued. Matthew was charged for abduction with intent to defile.
READ NOW: Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.
What’s next? 
Hannah Graham’s location is still unknown, and she’s been missing since Sept. 13.
Police have received 1,500 tips so far in the case. Last weekend, more than 1,200 volunteers and Virginia Department of Emergency Management officials spent the weekend searching for clues that would lead them to Graham
As time passes, the search area grows, investigators say.
As word spread that Matthew had been arrested, neighbors said they hoped police could now just focus on finding Hannah, and hopefully safe.



The city of Charlottesville, the University of Virginia and the local community have contributed $100,000 to a reward for “information leading to the cause” of Graham’s disappearance. Anyone with info is asked to call the tipline at 434-295-3851 or email CPDTips@charlottesville.org.
Longo said that anyone wishing to have a hard copy of the Hannah Graham missing person poster should contact Charlottesville Police.
Hannah’s parents, he said,  “are strong people and they are still hopeful.”
“They are very appreciative of your being here everyday and telling their daughter’s story,” he added.
“There may be a time when they come back before you.”
All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.
Depend on CBS 6 News and WTVR.com for the latest updates on this important story. 


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew 








			6 comments		




 

Marie

I am convinced that they have the right guy after the allegations of (r)ape at liberty and the whole cab driver thing. They should run his dna for hits in other cases. His dad was wrong about him. Some people lead double lives.




							September 25, 2014 at 8:41 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Janet Ticklebottom

that’s so true for example: Spiderman, Batman, Green Lantern, Thor, the man who invented Nutella.




							September 26, 2014 at 7:53 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

marie

How could you forget Superman, and the girl who invented Skinny Cow??!!




							September 26, 2014 at 9:06 am						












 

manalishi

Waterboard him!  Might I suggest incorporating the use of Mr. Bubbles for the process for entertainment purposes.




							September 26, 2014 at 10:40 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

John

Yea run his DNA for sure. And as for as double lives, his paster spoke good of him and bible thumpers are the best at that. Wonder if her parents knew she partied like that?  Or was that her double life her parents didn’t see. Hope they find her soon




							September 27, 2014 at 9:01 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

MM

Wonder if the police are back tracking his movements based on GPS in his cell phone or pings to cell towers he went by the night of her disappearance and later?  There hasn’t been mention of doing that. Maybe there is some type of GPS in his car that could be back tracked also.




							October 3, 2014 at 11:23 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Heroes Among Us
Who is the hero in your life? Click here to nominate them so Greg McQuade and CBS 6 News can share their story.







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink



 


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police: Man with dreads went into bar with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

WATCH: Lawyer for Jesse Matthew, suspect in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, goes off on reporter


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Tempo Bar owner: We did not serve Hannah Graham alcohol



 


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















