Mande: The Politicization Of Hannah Graham's Disappearance » FITSNews 
Mande: The Politicization Of Hannah Graham's Disappearance » FITSNews


 





TRENDING:
Mark Sanford’s Facebook Post - I apologize for the length of this post, but...
A Guide to the New and Improved Trenholm Plaza - This is not breaking news. This may not...
SC Highway Patrol Shooting Is About To Get Interesting … - SOLICITOR’S “CLEAN SHOT”...
Bombshell Hazing Lawsuit Hits Clemson Women’s Soccer Program - FRESHMAN PLAYER ALLEGEDLY SUFFERED PERMANENT...
Jenny Sanford: “Bitterness Beyond Belief” - FRIEND OF FORMER FIRST COUPLE: “SHE IS...























SC
US Politics
Biz
Globe
America
Sports
2016
Liz









TRENDING:
Mark Sanford’s Facebook Post - Thinking of renewing your concealed weapons permit online?...
A Guide to the New and Improved Trenholm Plaza - Thinking of renewing your concealed weapons permit online?...
SC Highway Patrol Shooting Is About To Get Interesting … - Thinking of renewing your concealed weapons permit online?...
Bombshell Hazing Lawsuit Hits Clemson Women’s Soccer Program - Thinking of renewing your concealed weapons permit online?...
Jenny Sanford: “Bitterness Beyond Belief” - Thinking of renewing your concealed weapons permit online?...







NavigationMenu








SC
US Politics
Biz
Globe
America
Sports
2016
Liz
 















 22 Sep 2014
56 Comments




KEEP UP TO DATE FOLLOW FITSNEWS NOW!












Mande: The Politicization Of Hannah Graham’s Disappearance

STRAIGHT TALK ABOUT SAFETY …
By MANDE WILKES  ||  Recently on this website I made some major waves, simply by pointing out that an abused woman – by marrying her assailant – is complicit in the continuing abuse.  I couldn’t have known, when I wrote that piece, that it’d be so controversial to note that women ought look out for themselves.
Now, just two weeks on, it seems I’m again in a position to agitate for women to act in their own self-interest.
Hannah Graham, 18 years old and a student at the University of Virginia, vanished following a night of partying.  Missing for over a week, Graham has in her own absence unwittingly become the poster child for new-wave feminism.
The acrid, intellectually dishonest chorus goes like this: We must not blame Graham, or any other kidnapping or assault victim.
But who is blaming Graham?  No one, as far as I can tell.  Not one columnist, commentator, or media outlet has put the blame on Graham.  That’d be ridiculous!
What I have heard, instead, is the quiet expression of the sentiment that girls should take care when out at nighttime – you know … don’t walk around alone, especially while under the inhibition-squashing influence of alcohol.
Sounds reasonable, right?  Whose sensibilities could this possibly offend?
If I someday have a college-aged daughter of my own, this will certainly be my advice to her, I’ll tell you that much.
Because I wouldn’t want her to be harmed.
Many on the liberal left don’t care so much about that, though, so they prosecute the position that girls have some measure of say in their own safety.  They’d rather make the issue an academic one, sort of like how the detractors of my recent column derided me for restating a simple truism.
The platitudes and the glossy recitation of statistics might make you feel good, but they do nothing for Hannah Graham or her cohort.
Is it unfortunate that we have to remind girls to be their own keepers?  Sure.  Do I wish there weren’t predators and rapists and thieves and abusers?  Of course.  But that doesn’t change the calculus that we owe it to girls like Hannah Graham to be honest with them, to remind them that irresponsible behavior doesn’t make them bad people but it does make them more easily baited.
Is that to say that no responsibly-behaved girl has ever been harmed?  Of course not.  But it stands to reason – and to statistics, by the way – that party-going girls who walk home alone are more likely to be harmed.
I refuse to lie about that to the very women who are most likely to be hurt by the lie.
Mande Wilkes is a wife, mother, businesswoman, author, etc. residing on the South Carolina coast with her family.







									Written by Mande Wilkes



 13:05PM on Monday, Sep 22nd 2014




THE COMMENTS












 Have a Tip? Submit it Here 






All Topics 

All Topics
2016
America
Biz
Globe
Good Stuff
Lifestyle
News & Events
Nikki Haley
Random Stuff
South Carolina
Sports
Star Stuff
Support FITS
Uncategorized
US Politics
Videos


 Latest
 Popular









SC Secretary Of State Candidate Has Some Moves …
52 minutes ago









Sources: Clemson Student “Hazed To Death”
1 hour ago









Illinois Takes Police Checkpoints Seriously
2 hours ago









Lindsey Graham, John McCain Call For U.S. Ground Troops In Syria
3 hours ago









Barack Obama’s Nobel Peace Prize …
4 hours ago











Mark Sanford’s Facebook Post
12 Sep 2014









A Guide to the New and Improved Trenholm Plaza
06 Sep 2014









SC Highway Patrol Shooting Is About To Get Interesting …
07 Sep 2014









Bombshell Hazing Lawsuit Hits Clemson Women’s Soccer Program
08 Sep 2014









Nikki Haley’s “Burrito-Gate” Comes Full Circle
17 Sep 2014











 
 











Terms & Conditions - Privacy Policy
Copyright 2012-2013 Fitsnews, LLCVersion 1.4 - Steinborn Edition All Rights Reserved.


Article Categories
2016
America
Biz
Globe
Good Stuff
Lifestyle
News & Events


FitsNews Pages
Contact
Contributors
Donate
Feeds
Low Country
Home


The Archives
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014






















