Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham | WTKR.com  
Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham

Posted 11:10 am, September 23, 2014, by Matt Knight, Updated at 06:37am, September 24, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



(CNN) — Authorities have obtained an arrest warrant for Jesse Matthew, charging him with abduction with the intent to defile, in the case of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters Tuesday.
Police believe Matthew was the last person with Graham before her disappearance. She was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall.
The Charlottesville Police Department is circulating a wanted poster for the 32-year-old Matthew, who is also wanted for two counts of reckless driving.

He is described as an African-American man, standing 6 feet, 2 inches tall, and weighing 270 pounds. He is known to have contacts in Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Washington, D.C.
Longo declined to provide additional details on the case.
“Between now and the time that this matter goes to trial, we need to be very sensitive about the information that we share,” he said.
However, the police chief stressed: “We absolutely are continuing our search for Hannah.”
On the evening of September 12, she was seen at a party before friends saw her at an apartment complex a couple of blocks away. That was shortly before midnight, according to a time line compiled by CNN affiliate WVIR.
About 12:45 a.m. on September 13, a surveillance camera caught her outside a pub, about three-quarters of a mile from the apartment complex. A doorman turned her away at the pub, Longo said Sunday.
Ten minutes later, she is seen running past a gas station — no one appears to be pursuing her — and witnesses say they saw her five minutes later roughly four blocks from the gas station, WVIR reported. She was at a restaurant, witnesses said.
The surveillance camera at an Italian cafe captured her walking along the mall about 1:06 a.m. The camera at a jewelry store recorded her passing two minutes later, WVIR reported.
At 1:20 a.m. she texted her friends to say was lost and trying to find a party, WVIR reported. She and a man were seen having drinks at a bar between 1:30 and 2 a.m., WVIR said.
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
They are are offering a $50,000 reward for information leading to her safe return.
Graham, 18, is a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
“Hannah is beyond precious to us,” her parents said in a statement released shortly after her disappearance. “We are truly devastated by her disappearance. It’s totally out of character for us not to have heard from her, and we fear foul play.”


Data backs claims of sex assaults at Virginia Wesleyan College


VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach


Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim


Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Filed in: News 








			8 comments		




 

Go Tides!

We should send Officer Darren Wilson after this scumbag.




							September 24, 2014 at 10:33 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Denny

Why was a nice white girl even having drinks with a black man at 1:30 in the morning, after already being intoxicated.  That was just asking for trouble right there.




							September 24, 2014 at 11:01 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Aleah

Like him being a black male has anything to do with it.. If she wasn’t being irresponsible and wasnt drinking at 18 years old in an unfamiliar place, ALONE, I don’t think this would have happened. Him being black and a male doesn’t make him more capable than an asian, caucasian, or hispanic male.




							September 24, 2014 at 1:46 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

Tish

yep your right Dennis she open that can herself, not to make it right but hey




							September 24, 2014 at 11:46 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Farthead

She’s 18. Like you’ll make good decisions when you get to that age




							September 24, 2014 at 1:33 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

Aleah

And I am not on his side or anything. I just believe that his race has nothing to do with it. I hope the young lady is returned home safely and this man is put to justice.




							September 24, 2014 at 1:48 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Melissa

Why did he speed off so fast at the police station that made him look guilty like he did something. Why would he follow her not knowing who she was these are the questions the police need to ask him. They need to do a lying detectors test on him to see what He’s lying about. They need to find a physic who can see where she is. Why haven’t they done any of this? Why wait to speak to him when they can get ahead of him. I believe he done something with her maybe he hired someone to take her to tie her up or kill her. I just hope the police get with it soon and do something to find her if she is alive they can save her before its to late.




							September 28, 2014 at 12:03 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Melissa

I believe he killed the others why would there be blood In his car if it wasn’t from Hannah Graham? Why would there be ladies clothing in his car? If its not from Hannah Graham then they know they have a serial killer on there hands. They need to keep this creep locked up Til they find Hannah if she is alive this would be her chance of survival while he’s locked up. I pray Hannah is alive and she will come home to her parents and family. My main concern is she has been missing for a week and no result of her I hope and pray he didn’t kill her and throw her in the beach where he was camping at maybe that’s where he put the others maybe that’s why there bodies have never been found.




							September 28, 2014 at 12:12 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






Team 3 Professionals
Visit them today!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia



 


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police



 


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts









































Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















