Hampton Roads search and rescue team assists in search for Hannah Graham | WTKR.com  
Hampton Roads search and rescue team assists in search for Hannah Graham | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 59°
High 80°





Wed


					62°  81°
					


Thu


					59°  75°
					


Fri


					56°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Hampton Roads search and rescue team assists in search for Hannah Graham

Posted 12:21 am, September 26, 2014, by Marissa Jasek 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 




A handful of Hampton Roads volunteers are assisting in the search for Hannah. The Tidewater Search and Rescue team combed the city and woods of Charlottesville last weekend.
Theresa Crossland was one of the 11 TSAR team members who drove up to help.
“In an urban environment there`s no shortage of clues,” she says. “There were literally hundreds of clues that were found.”
Vicky Banta is also part of that group. She first hunted for evidence around UVA.
“It was really kind of sad to see the college students in the dorms know that some of these may be her friends and people that care deeply about her,” she says. “Hoping maybe to find a cell phone or an item that would be linked to her, but we didn`t,” she says.
She then searched along the twisting two-lane Highway 20.
“One item was a hat, another was a coat,” Banta says, talking about the items she found. “You can usually tell if it`s been there any length of time so it`s probably not related to this search. It had some age to it, things like that.”
With a suspect now in custody, search and rescue volunteers hope their clues will lead to answers.
“I believe she will be found. The question is when and by who,” Crossland says.
“It`s a college student, I have a college student now and it really hits home,” Banta says. “Like the parents said, this is their worst nightmare and none of us would ever want to experience this.”


Filed in: News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






The NewsChannel 3 App Center
Get the latest news and Live VIPIR Radar on your phone!







 

 


Popular



VIDEO: Couple together 34 years receives first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Man running in inflatable bubble from Florida to Bermuda rescued by Coast Guard



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



Geoffrey Holder, famed dancer, 7Up pitchman, dies



SCAM ALERT: Fraudsters prey on unsuspecting business owners



City Council to discuss changes to program that offers tax breaks to elderly and disabled residents



Experimental drug used to save Virginia boy with rare virus now used to treat Ebola victim















News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Neighbor: 84-year-old man, DMV clerk argued frequently before fatal shooting


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know



 


News

Taking Action: How much bacteria swims in flooded areas of Hampton Roads?


News

Missing search and rescue bloodhound found


News

Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’


News

UPDATE: Bond denied for woman after daughter called police about alleged meth lab


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham



 


News

Newport News mother seeks justice for murdered son found in trunk of burning car


News

Police search for clues in murder of 65-year-old Hampton woman


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,351 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















