Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station | WTVR.com  
Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall

Posted 12:23 pm, September 17, 2014, by Scott Wise and Alix Bryan, Updated at 06:02pm, September 17, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Police searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham said a witness spotted the teenager enter the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville the morning she disappeared. The Downtown Mall is a pedestrian mall with stores and restaurants along either side.
Charlottesville Police have asked those businesses to preserve security camera video so detectives could determine if it contained clues into what happened to Graham.
Charlottesville Police Capt. Gary Pleasants said prior to the sighting on the Downtown Mall, a security camera at a nearby Shell gas station captured video of Graham running by the gas station.
He said the video revealed no one was chasing her at the time.  The video was recorded just before 1 a.m. Saturday.



Officers held a press conference Wednesday afternoon, to share and explain the videos. Ahead of sharing the videos, police said they believe Hannah lost her bearings. They said that friends weren’t very concerned when Hannah was not seen Saturday, as she spent a lot of time in the library and was very studious.
But by Sunday, friends became worried and began to compare notes and contact family.

The updated timeline of the last hours anyone heard from Graham looks like this:

11: 50 p.m. Friday — Graham last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in the 200 block of 14th Street NW.
12:45 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street.
12:55 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on Shell station surveillance video on Preston Ave.
1 a.m. Saturday — Witness reports seeing Graham on Downtown Mall
1:20 a.m. Saturday — Graham sends a text to friends saying she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets.

Captain Pleasants said the camera outside McGrady’s Irish Pub showed Graham walking “in front of the building for several minutes, apparently it appears, maybe even talking to someone, and then walking away –leaving east bound on Grady at 12:46 a.m.”

That would be the opposite direction of her apartment, police said. Police said a blood hound picked up Graham’s scent right outside the Irish pub; but where it led them, they have not said.
Graham has been missing since Saturday morning. Unfortunately, police said, the family did not know she was missing until Sunday. Search teams spent Monday and Tuesday looking for the 18-year-old student. The search resumed on Wednesday.
“Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends,” the Graham family said in a statement released Tuesday. “We express our sincere gratitude to law enforcement and everyone who is involved in the search for Hannah. We also thank the University for the full attention they are devoting to the situation.”
Graham is from Northern Virginia, and it is reported that she graduated from West Potomac High School in Fairfax County, in 2013.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Heroes Among Us
Who is the hero in your life? Click here to nominate them so Greg McQuade and CBS 6 News can share their story.







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police search for ‘person of interest’ in UVa. student Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’



 


News

WATCH LIVE: Press conference on missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Police search Charlottesville apartment for clues into disappearance of UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police now think UVa. student Hannah Graham’s last text was incorrect



 


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know


News

Tempo Bar owner: We did not serve Hannah Graham alcohol


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















