Hannah Graham Missing: Jesse Matthew arrest warrant issued | WTVR.com  
Hannah Graham Missing: Jesse Matthew arrest warrant issued | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police

Posted 5:28 pm, September 21, 2014, by Nick Dutton and Chelsea Rarrick, Updated at 12:19pm, September 22, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — An arrest warrant has been issued for Jesse Matthew, the man with dreadlocks spotted on surveillance video who police believe has information about missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo said during a Sunday afternoon press conference. Matthew, 32,  is wanted on two counts of reckless driving after Virginia State Police saw him speed away from Charlottesville police headquarters Saturday.
Longo said Matthew walked into the station and asked for a lawyer late Saturday afternoon. After he spoke with a lawyer, Longo said Matthew left the station, got into a vehicle with another person and sped off.
RELATED: Hannah Graham’s parents speak out for first time; beg for info about missing UVa. student
State and federal investigators followed the vehicle, but had to give up the pursuit because the vehicle was traveling too fast.
“State and federal authorities who were overtly monitoring his movement saw him get into a car and leave a location to Albemarle County at a high rate of speed,  driving in a matter that was reckless and placed others in danger,” Chief Longo said.
Accordingly, Virginia State Police charged Matthew with two counts of reckless driving, a Class 1 misdemeanor, and an arrest warrant was issued.
Longo said he would not speculate on why Matthew sped off, but said investigators are “aggressively pursuing his location.”
Longo also pointed out that while at the police station, Matthew did not give investigators any additional information about his interaction with Graham at the Tempo bar and restaurant.
“I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the earth,” Longo said. “It’s been a week and we can’t find her. It’s been a week and someone has got to know something.”
That said, the police chief reminded the community, “Don’t get tunnel vision just because we have a name.”



As police awaited test results from forensic evidence recovered from Matthew’s car, seized Friday morning, investigators provided new photos of the vehicle — a 1998 burnt orange Chrysler Coupe — parked either along 4th Street or somewhere else near the mall.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (4 images)






 


Police said Matthew is the man seen in surveillance video taken from Sal’s Restaurant. The video showed a man with dreadlocks first walking west bound on the mall. The video then showed the man cross the mall, and start walking behind Hannah, eastbound.


Detective: We do have video of #HannahGraham and Matthew together  after they left Tempo restaurant @CBS6
— Melissa J. Hipolit (@MelissaCBS6) September 21, 2014

However, police would not comment Sunday on whether Matthew and Graham were captured on surveillance video getting into Matthew’s car.
“I think he can help us find Hannah Graham,” Longo reiterated. “We want to talk to him about his interaction with a sweet young girl we cannot find.”
Matthew is described as a black male with dreadlocks, six feet two inches tall and weighing about 270 pounds.
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.


This is a picture of Jesse Matthew's car. If you think you saw it PLEASE call the tip line. 434-295-3851 @CBS6 pic.twitter.com/WQBWDNmfhu
— Chelsea Rarrick (@ChelseaCBS6) September 21, 2014




Parents Desperate for Answers 
Hannah Graham’s parents made a desperate plea for information about their missing daughter when they spoke out publicly for the first time during a Sunday afternoon news conference.
John Graham spoke lovingly of his daughter, as his wife, Sue, stood by his side.
He begged anyone who had information into the whereabouts of his 18-year-old daughter, a second-year University of Virginia student, to come forward.
“This is every parent’s worst nightmare,” John Graham said. “We need to find out what happened to Hannah to make sure it doesn’t happen to anyone else.”
The couple thanked the hundreds of volunteers who spent the weekend searching for any clue that could help solve the mystery of what happened to Hannah.
“We have been utterly overwhelmed this week by the generosity of spirit of everybody we have met – and many more besides whom we’ve been unable to meet. We understand that over a thousand volunteers have been out combing Charlottesville, looking for our girl, yesterday and today.”
Graham’s parents shared some favorite memories of their daughter, describing her as someone who loved helping people.
“Last Spring Break, instead of hanging around on the beach, she spent a week in Tuscaloosa rebuilding houses,” her father said.
John Graham showed off Hannah’s favorite stuffed animal, a white rabbit named BB, given to her when she was less than a week old.
“He was Hannah’s constant guardian and companion friend until last month when she chose to return to Charlottesville without him.”
John Graham showed off Hannah’s favorite stuffed animal, a white rabbit named BB, given to her when she was less than a week old.
Hannah had once lost BB as a child, but the animal was safely returned to her.
“All we want to do now is bring Hannah home safely ,” he said.



Volunteers Comb Charlottesville for Clues
Over the weekend, the Virginia Department of Emergency Management said over 1,200 people came out to search for Graham in Charlottesville. The massive search began Saturday and continued through Sunday at 6 p.m.
Among the volunteers looking for Graham is the family of Alexis Murphy. Murphy was the high school student from nearby Nelson County who disappeared last year. A man was later arrested and convicted for her abduction and murder, even though her body was never found.



Reward Offered 
A $50,000 reward is now being offered in hopes of soliciting tips that could lead police to Graham. The City of Charlottesville and the University of Virginia are each offering $10,000. In addition, some local residents and businesses have contributed $30,000 to the reward.
All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.

Depend on CBS 6 News and WTVR.com for the most complete coverage of this important story. 


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police made ‘tactical decisions’ handling missing UVa. student Hannah Graham case


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

WATCH: Lawyer for Jesse Matthew, suspect in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, goes off on reporter



 


News

Specific technology alerted authorities that suspect Jesse Matthew was on the run


News

Tempo Bar owner: We did not serve Hannah Graham alcohol


News

Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

WATCH LIVE: Press conference on missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

A woman alerted authorities to Jesse Matthew camped on Texas beach


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















