State police: Forensic evidence links Morgan Harrington murder to Hannah Graham case - INSIDENOVA.COM: Headlines  
State police: Forensic evidence links Morgan Harrington murder to Hannah Graham case - INSIDENOVA.COM: Headlines







            Close
        












Place a Classified Ad


Subscribe







Contact Us








            Welcome! 
        

Login|Signup


Login|My Dashboard|Register













Logout|My Dashboard





















State police: Forensic evidence links Morgan Harrington murder to Hannah Graham case - INSIDENOVA.COM: Headlines

























INSIDENOVA.COM




Home
 
News



Community News


Crime & Police


Education


Military


Politics


Business


Submit News


Local weather


Blogs

 



















 
Sports



Football


High School


Submit Sports

 



















 
Lifestyles



Health


Faith


Columnists

 



















 
Obituaries
 
Photos/Video



Photo Galleries


Videos


Submit Photos


Submit Videos

 



















 
Special Features



Promotions and Contests


Best Of


High-Heeled Happy Hour


Special Sections

 



















 
Things To Do



Calendar


Submit an Event

 



















 
About Us



Contact Us


Advertise


Subscription Services


Submission Forms


e-Edition


Site Index


Online Features

 



















 
Business Directory
 
Classifieds



Cars


Homes


Pets


Merchandise


Apartments

 



















 
Jobs
















 Dulles, VA  | Now: 64° | High: 61° | Low: 33° | 5-Day Forecast


























Home


Headlines





State police: Forensic evidence links Morgan Harrington murder to Hannah Graham case

StoryComments (8)Image (5)


        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






Jesse "LJ" Matthew Jr.
Jesse "LJ" Matthew has been charged with abduction with intent to defile in the disappearance of 18-year-old Hannah Graham.







Composite sketch Morgan Harrington case
FBI sketch of unknown suspect in murder of Morgan Harrington and 2005 rape in Fairfax city.







Jesse Matthew wanted poster







missing girl 2.jpeg
University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham of Fairfax County was last seen on Sept. 13.







missing girl.jpeg
University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham of Fairfax County was last seen Sept. 13 in Charlottesville. Surveillance video showed her with Jesse "LJ" Matthew Jr.



 














        Posted: Monday, September 29, 2014 12:45 pm
         | 
        

                Updated: 4:34 pm, Tue Sep 30, 2014.
            



State police: Forensic evidence links Morgan Harrington murder to Hannah Graham case

                        8 comments
                    




Forensic evidence links the disappearance of Northern Virginia native Hannah Graham to the 2009 murder of Morgan Harrington, state police said Monday.
Jesse “LJ” Matthew Jr., is being held without bond in Charlottesville, charged with abduction with the intent to defile in Graham’s Sept. 13 disappearance. He was arrested last week on a remote beach in Galveston, Texas after police issued a warrant for his arrest.
Matthew was the last person seen with the 18-year-pld Graham, a 2013 graduate of West Potomac High School outside Alexandria.
Graham has not been found, despite extensive searches in Charlottesville and neighboring Albemarle County.
Harrington, 20, disappeared in October 2009 at a Metallica concert on the University of Virginia campus in Charlottesville. Her body was found three months later in Albemarle.
DNA evidence linked Harrington’s murder to a 2005 rape in a condominium complex in Fairfax city.
On Monday, Virginia State Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller issued a statement saying Matthew’s arrest has provided “a new forensic link for state police investigators to pursue” and called it a significant break in the case.
“There is a still a great deal of work to be done in regards to this investigation and we appreciate the public’s patience as we move forward,” Geller said.
Matthew, 32, was extradited to Virginia from Galveston, Texas on Friday, five days after he was identified as the person seen on surveillance video with Graham the night she vanished, and six days after he showed up at the Charlottesville police, asked for a lawyer and left without talking to detectives.
If, in fact, the cases are linked, there is at least one surviving victim.
At 10 p.m. on Sept. 24, 2005, a man attacked a 26-year-old woman walking home from Giant on busy Jermantown Road in Fairfax. As she headed down Rock Garden Drive in the Oxford Row condos, he grabbed her from behind, according to a Fairfax city Crime Solvers bulletin issued at the time.
He carried his prey to the neighborhood’s pool area, where he raped and assaulted her. But a passerby startled him, and he ran.
The victim fled to neighbor’s for help and the stranger got away.
State police said they will not comment any further on the links between the three cases, and said the focus should remain on finding Hannah Graham.
Anyone with information is asked to call the dedicated tip line at 434-295-3851.
 


 


More about Headlines

ARTICLE: UPDATED: Same-sex marriages begin across Virginia
ARTICLE: Baby's death under investigation in Leesburg
ARTICLE: Transforming Georgetown South
ARTICLE: Foust, Comstock each promise to protect federal workforce
ARTICLE: Reward increased for anti-Hindu graffiti cases
























            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Headlines,
        Crime police,
        Fairfax,
        Fairfax
        
        on 
        
            Monday, September 29, 2014 12:45 pm. 
            
                Updated: 4:34 pm.

         | Tags: 
                    

Headlines




















Rules of Conduct


1 Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language.
2 Don't Threaten or Abuse. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. AND PLEASE TURN OFF CAPS LOCK.
3 Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.


4 Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.
5 Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
6 Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article.





Welcome to the discussion.





Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






        
            Or, use your
         linked account:
        







                    facebook
                    









                    google
                    









                    yahoo
                    











                    aol
                    







            Need an account? Create one now.
        







8 comments:
    





















Brad

 posted at 5:32 pm on Wed, Oct 1, 2014.





Posts: 208




Culture of violence continues...













Link 

 








CLS88

 posted at 2:47 pm on Tue, Sep 30, 2014.





Posts: 1




For those of you (nearly everyone) who thought the typical profile of a serial killer included white race?  NOT!  As of 2000 blacks African Americans represented 56% of all identified serial killers in the previous decade.  The trend continued for the years prior to 2010 and blacks were found to be responsible for more than 56% of all serial killings.  In statistical terms this indicates an "over representation" of approximately 400%.  That is, all things being equal, a black man is 4 X more likely to be responsible for serial murder than a white, and 20 X more so than a Latino.   Based on VERY limited data in the 1970's the FBI released a serial murderer profile which indicated white males as the most likely perps. However this baffled the rest of the world's criminologists since blacks were even then 4- 6 X more likely to commit murder of any kind.  To the mortification (again) of the FBI it was revealed that their data base was drawn only from the crimes they had deemed worthy of investigation. In plain English the victims of black serial killers- slightly in the majority of young black women- mostly prostitutes/addicts- never mattered enough to have been noticed by the FBI and other law enforcement.  This inadvertent misdirection is though to have resulted in the unnecessary deaths of many hundreds, if not low thousands of victims, mostly young prostitutes and addicts.  The take away from all of this is that people- especially young women- need to be aware that black males between the ages of 18 and 49- are MUCH more likely to end their lives by murder/torture- than any other demographic.  Here is the link from Radford University/FGCU Serial Killer Database (Updated 9/6/2014):  http://maamodt.asp.radford.edu/Serial%20Killer%20I...  Note Radford University is a recognized international authority for serial murder and crime statistics.













Link 

 








ActuallyHawa

 posted at 1:25 pm on Tue, Sep 30, 2014.





Posts: 330




That's true and the safe can be stated for defense (in certain cases) as well..













Link 

 








Tornado65

 posted at 6:15 am on Tue, Sep 30, 2014.





Posts: 18




I agree.  Sometimes the actual examination and the subsequent evidence handling can be a problem as it was in the O. J. Simpson case.  Even the FBI lab has been found to 'manipulate' evidence to suit the prosecution.  I hope that isn't the case here.













Link 

 








Tornado65

 posted at 6:10 am on Tue, Sep 30, 2014.





Posts: 18




Can't argue with objective science if it was done right and properly preserved.  Unfortunate that they didn't catch him sooner and get him off the street.  If the evidence stands muster, Mr. Matthews is dead meat.













Link 

 








Cultured2014

 posted at 6:05 pm on Mon, Sep 29, 2014.





Posts: 55




The writing was on the wall with this one, prayers for hannah and her family. This beast has been preying on young women for a long time most likely and deserves nothing less than a needle in his vein













Link 

 








polack10

 posted at 4:50 pm on Mon, Sep 29, 2014.





Posts: 22




Give him the needle and have the trial the next day.













Link 

 








ActuallyHawa

 posted at 1:36 pm on Mon, Sep 29, 2014.





Posts: 330




Wow, this guy, if guilty, is a monster. However, I hope the forensic results connecting the two cases is accurate...













Link 

 









Print comments


 




























                
                    e-Mail List
                
            




Breaking News
Get the latest breaking news, traffic and weather updates as they happen. Sign up today!


InsideNoVa Top Stories
Get the day's top headlines from around Northern Virginia in your inbox. Sign up today!


InsideNoVa deals & contests
Get the latest deals and contests from around Northern Virginia in your inbox. Sign up today!


Prep Football
A Saturday roundup of high school football action from around Northern Virginia. Sign up now!


Manage Your Lists










                
                  Featured Gallery
                
                      









14 photos






					Mugshots 9/29-10/3











        Follow us on Facebook
        






tab 0
tab 1














Popular
Commented
Facebook Activity





Stories


Texas Ebola patient flew out of Dulles Airport
UPDATED: Body found in Clifton park is that of missing teen Cara Golias
Police search for attempted armed robber in Manassas area
As ‘violent as they tend to come’

More



Photos







More



Videos







More








All


Police: Goddard School teacher bit toddler, owner failed to report it (41)
Report: More than 2,000 immigrant children assigned to Northern Virginia (36)
Charles Severance indicted for capital murder in Alexandria homicides (33)
UPDATED: Police release wanted poster in Hannah Graham’s disappearance (29)
Prince William supervisors fire director, strip power from county social services (24)

More












tab 0
tab 1
tab 2



































 Dulles, VA 
Current Conditions






Overcast
64°


        Humidity: 54% 
        Winds: S at 9mph 
        Feels Like: 64° 



 Your Extended Forecast 


Today




                High 71°/Low 56° 
                Chance of showers
            


Tomorrow




                High 72°/Low 56° 
                Mostly cloudy
            


Wednesday




                High 73°/Low 45° 
                Sunshine
            


Thursday




                High 70°/Low 55° 
                More sun than clouds
            

7 Day Forecast

























Sections



Home


News


Sports


Weather


Lifestyles


Obituaries


Multimedia


Things To Do


Online Features





Services



About Us


Contact Us


Media Kit


Subscription Services


Site Forms


Site Index


Add Search Toolbar





Contact us
insidenova.com
Northern Virginia Media Services
Phone number: 703-771-8800
E-mail: info@princewilliamtoday.com
Address: P.O. Box 591
		Leesburg, VA 20178


Search








Search in:






All


News


Sports




Lifestyles


Obituaries


Things To Do




Photos


Video









© Copyright 2014, INSIDENOVA.COM, Leesburg, VA. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. [Terms of Use | Privacy Policy]


 






Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






        
            Or, use your
         linked account:
        







                    facebook
                    









                    google
                    









                    yahoo
                    











                    aol
                    







            Need an account? Create one now.
        

















