Lawyer for main suspect in Hannah Graham’s disappearance remains mum | WTVR.com  
Lawyer for main suspect in Hannah Graham’s disappearance remains mum | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







WATCH: Lawyer for Jesse Matthew, suspect in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, goes off on reporter

Posted 5:45 pm, September 24, 2014, by CNN Money, Updated at 11:39am, September 25, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 






(CNN) — He’s his lawyer. And he was hired on Saturday.
That was all James Camblos, an attorney for the only known suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, would tell reporters Wednesday.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” he said about Jesse Matthew.
“I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not,” said Camblos, who spoke outside his office in Charlottesville, Virginia.
His comments came just one day after authorities obtained an arrest warrant against his client, who is wanted on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile.
Police believe Matthew was the last person with Graham. She was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Investigators have been looking for her ever since.
They are circulating a wanted poster for the 32-year-old Matthew, who is also wanted on suspicion of two counts of reckless driving.
According to Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo, Matthew willingly went to a police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest.
He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, Longo said.
Camblos confirmed that he was the attorney who met with Matthew at the police station.
“I’m not telling you anything else at this point,” he said.
Authorities are offering a $50,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.




Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew 








			9 comments		




 

Nancy Drew

Another dowdy public defender looking for a big storyline high profile case to boost his sluggish law practice. We have a name for them in this country: they’re called bottom feeders!!




							September 24, 2014 at 9:24 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Mo Fiscal conservatism

What do you do for a living, Nancy Drew?




							September 25, 2014 at 11:53 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Paula

Nancy just angry that when she needed a lawyer he didn’t take your case. You are stupid and a racist. No lawyer can help you with that.




							September 29, 2014 at 6:07 am						










 

Janet Ticklebottom

NANCY!!!!!!!!!!! YOU’RE MY HEREO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! . . . . . .  sign my pumpkin?




							September 25, 2014 at 12:42 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

wiseman

Janet if nancy is your hero you are pityful.




							September 29, 2014 at 6:10 am						










 

wishyouknew

Nancy Drew?  He was our Commonwealth Attorney for over 22 years – obviously you know nothing…get another name.




							September 28, 2014 at 5:17 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

Tar Zan

Haha at the end of the video, I think Joe meant to say “Charlottesville Police Department”, not Chesterfield.




							September 24, 2014 at 9:57 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Meaghan

It seems like this guy has a double life.  Volunteering at the Covenant school, a CNA at UVA hospital, talking about how religious he is. He just wants to be well liked…but then preying on young vulnerable girls at night




							September 25, 2014 at 1:44 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Blackbeered

He doesn’t “go off” on Joe St. George.  He basically asks Joe “are you stupid or are you deaf”.
Joe’s only intelligent comeback would have been “look, I’m a poor slob trying to earn a living and if I don’t ignore what you tell us, I could get fired.”
[So, Joe, you get to pick and choose what you ignore?  Or is that your boss's call?]




							September 25, 2014 at 7:13 pm						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

How easily was Jesse Matthew’s DNA taken and tested in Hannah Graham case?


News

‘He’s as gentle as they come,’ says dad of abduction suspect in Hannah Graham case


News

Specific technology alerted authorities that suspect Jesse Matthew was on the run



 


News

Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Police made ‘tactical decisions’ handling missing UVa. student Hannah Graham case


News

FBI, Virginia State Police investigated possible link between Alexis Murphy and Hannah Graham


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

A woman alerted authorities to Jesse Matthew camped on Texas beach


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts












































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















