Hannah Graham Search: Crews hit Route 29, rural properties for UVa. student | WTVR.com  
Hannah Graham Search: Crews hit Route 29, rural properties for UVa. student | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 6:52 pm, September 28, 2014, by Nick Dutton, Joe St. George and Web Staff, Updated at 09:39pm, September 28, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — More than two weeks after Hannah Graham vanished without a trace, there is still no sign of the missing University of Virginia student.
Hopes remain high on campus as specialized crews from the Virginia Department of Emergency Management search areas throughout Central Virginia, including rural parts of Albemarle County.
Professional investigative search crews canvassed areas on Route 29 in southern Albemarle County on Sunday.
Crews using search dogs and ATVs to reach remote areas searching for any clues, including possibly any torn clothing as well as for misplaced tire tracks or abandoned sheds.
And of course officials want people who saw Jesse Matthew, the man arrested on abduction with the intent to defile, the weekend Graham disappeared to come forward.
Even though Graham has been missing for over two weeks, authorities do not want the public to think the search operation is being reduced in any way
“The operation is not being scaled back. We have a number of people who are out searching all day long and have been throughout the entire weekend. We have people here who are mapping the areas that have been searched. We’re doing systematic searches of rural property and land,” Carter Johnson with the Albemarle County Police Department said.
However, the billboards in the Richmond area that were asking people for information regarding Graham were no longer active as of Sunday.
If you have information that could help investigators,  call Charlottesville police at 434-295-3851.
Graham was officially reported missing on Sept. 14, though she was last seen the early hours of Sept. 13.
Matthew’s car and apartment were searched five days later, on Sept. 19, after police reviewed video and spoke with witnesses. The next day Matthew was reported to have sped away from the overt surveillance Virginia State Police had on him.
He was next named a suspect, after police received more forensic evidence – of which they have not disclosed.
Police in Texas were alerted to a suspicious man camping on the beach in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, approximately 1,300 miles from Charlottesville. When they ran his license plate number around 3:30 p.m., they found out he was wanted in Virginia.
He was charged with giving false information to a police officer.
A federal law enforcement source confirmed a phone call made from a borrowed cell phone in Louisiana, to Virginia, is how police first discovered Jesse Matthew was out of the state and on the run.
Hannah Graham
Where is Hannah Graham?
It was late on a Friday night and a freckled, blue-eyed University of Virginia student named Hannah Graham was partying in downtown Charlottesville, Virginia.
Graham, described as an accomplished athlete and straight-A student, was seen various times before her disappearance in the early hours of September 13.
She was at a party and later at an apartment complex, just blocks away. A surveillance camera caught her outside a pub, where she was turned away.
She was next seen running past a gas station, and witness accounts have her walking onto the Downtown Mall, a pedestrian thoroughfare lined with restaurants and shops. There were a few people out walking around, and surveillance cameras help capture the track Graham took.
A surveillance camera at an Italian cafe captured her walking eastbound along the mall about 1:06 a.m. A camera at a jewelry store recorded her passing two minutes later.
That camera footage appears to show her walking with Matthew, and a witness collaborated that he say Graham approached by a man who put his arm around her.
Matthew was originally spotted on the camera at the Italian café, headed the opposite direction as Graham. The video shows him cross over and fall into step behind Graham, heading eastbound.
Police said that at 1:20 a.m., she texted her friends to say she was lost and trying to find a party.
However, she told her friends, according to police, that she was lost at a location near her apartment – which was 1.5 miles from where she was spotted on camera ten minutes before the text.
She and a man were seen having drinks at a bar between 1:30 and 2 a.m. was what police have said.
The owner of the restaurant released a statement that Matthew had been inside the bar, but Graham had not.
She may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
Jesse Matthew
What will happen with Matthew? 
On Friday, a day after he waived extradition, Matthew was flown from Texas to Virginia.
Due to a statewide judicial conference, it won’t be until at least Thursday that Matthew goes before General District Court.
Matthew’s father spoke publicly, for the first time, to CBS 6. He said his son would not have harmed Graham.
“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” Jesse Matthew Sr. said. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.
“To kill or hurt somebody, that’s not my son.”
Matthew also was questioned in connection with an alleged sexual assault nearly 12 years ago, authorities said.
But no charges were filed because the woman didn’t want to go forward with the case and investigators determined there wasn’t enough evidence to arrest Matthew, said Michael Doucette, the commonwealth’s attorney for Lynchburg, Virginia.
According to a statement from Lynchburg police, the woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University on October 17, 2002.
Matthew told authorities that the woman consented, Doucette said, adding that there were no witnesses.
On Thursday, he appeared before Galveston County Judge Mark Henry on a charge of giving false information to a Texas peace officer.
Matthew’s Virginia-based lawyer had little to say about his client when approached this week outside his Charlottesville office.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” James Camblos said. “I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not.”
Matthew willingly went to a police station last weekend, along with several family members, walking through the front door and asking for a lawyer, Longo said. There was no warrant for his arrest at that time.
Matthew and the lawyer spoke and then left, the police chief said, giving detectives no clearer picture of what may have happened the day Graham disappeared.
Because he has retained counsel, police cannot question him.
Authorities searched Matthew’s apartment and car but have declined to say what — if anything — was found.
What’s next in the search for Hannah Graham? 
Charlottesville Police have received 1,500 tips so far in the case. The first weekend after Graham’s disappearance, more than 1,200 volunteers and Virginia Department of Emergency Management officials spent the weekend searching for clues that would lead them to Graham.
As time passes, the search area grows, investigators say. Longo said the VDEM, and search and rescue have covered most of city, and Carter’s Mountain.
Longo said what happened over the next 40 or so hours until Graham was reported missing is crucial.
“There is this block of time,” he said. “This very big, large, significant block of time between the time we know Hannah Graham disappeared and the time that disappearance was reported to us. We need to shrink that gap.”
Authorities say they think people who know Matthew may be helpful in the search for Graham.
“If you know Jesse, and many people do because Jesse grew up here,” Longo said. “He went to school here. He has family here. He went to church here. He worked here. Lots of people know Jesse.”
Longo also asked property owners to check their land for anything suspicion.
He asked owners that have checked their land to call the Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851 or email CPDTips@charlottesville.org to let investigators cross those properties off the list.
“If you have seen tire tracks…that seem suspect, again, contact us,” Longo said. “We will make the assessment of what is relevant.”
The chief also asked for the help of Charlottesville-area realtors.
“If you are a realtor who serves the greater Charlottesville area, we are asking you to go to vacant properties to follow the same directives that we have asked property owners.”
The city of Charlottesville, the University of Virginia and the local community have contributed $100,000 to a reward for “information leading to the cause” of Graham’s disappearance.
Anyone with info is asked to call the tipline at 434-295-3851.
All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.
Depend on CBS 6 News and WTVR.com for the latest updates on this important story. 



Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham 








			11 comments		




 

For Real

Hope they are really close




							September 28, 2014 at 9:15 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Monica

I read on dailymail or the guardian, but I think daily mail few days ago that the situation in 2002 was much more serious. Now, this is a British publication, and it has not been reported by any US publications, so I’m taking it with a grain of salt. But the daily mail said they spoke to one of the guys who played with Jesse on the football team. According to that guy, Jesse “was really rough” with that girl, and she ended up in a hospital. While there were no criminal charges filed, he was kicked out of the football team, lost the athletic scholarship and was expelled from school all because of that incident. I really don’t know how there was no evidence if the girl was in a hospital, so that seems strange. But I did wonder few times why he left the school after three years, just one away from graduating. It was never explained in the news, did they not ask his family or friends? In a case like this anything can be relevant.




							September 28, 2014 at 10:22 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Sheri

I believe I read he worked at UVA Hospital as a transporter. If so, wouldn’t he have access to all areas of hospital. I, like everyone else want to believe she will be found alive, by the grace of God but, there is always the other possibility. With others missing and never found, has anyone considered this.  Also, from the time police searched his car and he obtained his sisters car take that route to search. Maybe he used his sisters car to take Hannah somewhere. Has her car been searched? Just suggestions. My feeling is she’s not n Charlottesville. Too easy for officials to have opportunity to find her, try lookn where they found body of young girl that went missing at John Paul Jones. Just my thoughts. May God bless Hannah and her family and the other families of the girls still missing.




							September 28, 2014 at 10:30 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

karla grigsby

May GOD be with her and her family…




							September 28, 2014 at 11:48 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

cataloochee gold

Hang this orangutan




							September 29, 2014 at 12:13 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Erreeanna

Women, want to stay safe? Stay sober. Not that sobriety will protect you 100 percent, but being drunk as a skunk significantly reduce’s one’s ability to read danger, push and run away, etc. This girl made her bed, sadly.




							September 29, 2014 at 12:39 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

tim

So true…If you are going to drink, you have to know your limit. She should know not to go anywhere at night alone. She obviously had too much to drink to make bad judgment or she was just naïve from jump. It seems like girls in this area would be much more cautious anyway given the disappearances in this area over the years. 
Aside from that, hopefully the police can gather concrete evidence that proves beyond reasonable doubt. You would hate for an innocent man to go to jail. Further, in cases like this, they want to punish someone so bad they would railroad anyone just so the case isn’t cold.




							September 29, 2014 at 9:08 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Barbara Brown

In the case of Hannah it was said she was drinking,yes. However, until Jesse started following her and escorted her to get a drink, she could walk.  Then it says he had to hold her up.  It is a known fact that strangers often put things in a persons drink. Anyway; they do have DNA and video footage that he was with Hannah; thus I don’t feel they are putting him behind bars JUST to have a person there.  He knows where he left her. He could tell. I cannot imagine that he would think by being quiet he will get away with it.  There is already enough evidence (DNA) to show his involvement with other females and their disappearance.  There is verbal confirmation that he did in fact commit sexual advances at two colleges he attended and by a person’s mother that he worked with.  He will be convicted by this evidence both real and circumstancial.  He has the traits of a sociopath; they never admit ANY wrong doing; even when they see the writing on the wall.  They cannot connect to any emotions other than what they want and they go get it at all costs.  I know he didn’t leave town until the day he went to the police to request an attorney.  I have thought that perhaps he sped away at that time because he was going to where ever he left Hannah.  He could of had something in the car to indicate this.  If, in fact, he did.  I think he was running scared this time. He was seen on video and he knew there was DNA out there.  These people are schemers; they plan and follow through.  If she is not found soon in Virginia, it is my thought that while en route to Texas that he retrieved Hannah and took her out of the state.   The determination of the police is admirable no matter what the reason is for their diligent search.    It is my hope that she will be found soon and that she is still in the area where he left her.   The possibility of finding the other girl that is missing,  in the same place,  is very probable




							October 6, 2014 at 2:10 pm						










 

BillyGoat

Or we could just kill all men.




							September 30, 2014 at 5:00 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

tim

LOL…The sheet this time is a computer!




							September 29, 2014 at 8:30 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Daniel Beasley

Hate to say it but if he was in Loisianna, he had acces to a large amount of gators, and croc,s. Hope I am really wrong.




							September 29, 2014 at 11:27 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 Antenna TV
Check out classic TV shows and movies on 6.2. Comcast 207|Verizon 479  







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’


News

Hannah Graham searchers have an important message for Virginia hunters and hikers



 


News

Drones deployed over Virginia to search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

University of Virginia students, football fans wear ‘Hope for Hannah’ ribbons



 


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
















































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















