Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, suspect in Hannah Graham case | WTVR.com  
Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, suspect in Hannah Graham case | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect

Posted 3:14 pm, October 1, 2014, by Web Staff, Updated at 09:47pm, October 1, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 


CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — A bond hearing for the man accused of abducting missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham has been canceled.
Jim Camblos, Matthew’s attorney, said Wednesday that he will not ask for Matthew to be released on bond. As a result, Matthew’s preliminary hearing on the abduction charge is slated for Dec. 4.
“The court has received a letter of representation and paperwork requesting a continuance from Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” Charlottesville Communications Director Miriam I. Dickler wrote in a media release.
However, Matthew is still scheduled for a 9 a.m. hearing on two reckless driving charges in Albemarle General District Court. He will appear by video.


Here is the drone that is about to be deployed to find #HannahGraham. As you can image drone supporters are thrilled pic.twitter.com/GCAvI3UyRB
— Joe St. George (@JoeStGeorge) October 1, 2014



Chief Longo says the #HannahGraham family understands the reality of what is happening pic.twitter.com/GcPm7RJfNd
— Joe St. George (@JoeStGeorge) October 1, 2014


DNA links Matthew to Morgan Harrington Case
Sources close to the investigation confirmed to CBS 6 reporter Laura French that Matthew has been forensically linked to the 2009 disappearance of 20-year-old Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington,
Those sources indicated that forensic evidence belonging to Graham suspect Jesse Matthew Jr., matched forensic evidence collected during the Harrington investigation.
The sources would not indicate what Matthew may or may not have done with Harrington, however the sources indicated that the forensic evidence match showed Harrington had some sort of contact with Matthew the night she disappeared outside John Paul Jones arena on October 17, 2009. Her remains were found in January 2010 on an Albemarle County farm.
Matthew also was questioned in connection with an alleged sexual assault nearly 12 years ago, authorities said.
But no charges were filed because the woman didn’t want to go forward with the case and investigators determined there wasn’t enough evidence to arrest Matthew, said Michael Doucette, the commonwealth’s attorney for Lynchburg, Virginia.
According to a statement from Lynchburg police, the woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University on October 17, 2002.
Matthew told authorities that the woman consented, Doucette said, adding that there were no witnesses.
Matthew’s father spoke publicly, for the first time, to CBS 6. He said his son would not have harmed Graham.
“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” Jesse Matthew Sr. said. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.
“To kill or hurt somebody, that’s not my son.”
Last week Matthew appeared before Galveston County Judge Mark Henry on a charge of giving false information to a Texas police officer.
Matthew’s Virginia-based lawyer had little to say about his client when approached this week outside his Charlottesville office.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” James Camblos said. “I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not.”
Matthew willingly went to a police station last weekend, along with several family members, walking through the front door and asking for a lawyer, Longo said. There was no warrant for his arrest at that time.
Matthew and the lawyer spoke and then left, the police chief said, giving detectives no clearer picture of what may have happened the day Graham disappeared. Because he has retained counsel, police cannot question him.
Hannah Graham
What’s next in the search for Hannah Graham? 
Charlottesville Police have received 2,400 tips so far in the case. The first weekend after Graham’s disappearance, more than 1,200 volunteers and Virginia Department of Emergency Management officials spent the weekend searching for clues that would lead them to Graham.
Authorities say they think people who know Matthew may be helpful in the search for Graham.
“If you know Jesse, and many people do because Jesse grew up here,” Longo said. “He went to school here. He has family here. He went to church here. He worked here. Lots of people know Jesse.”
Longo also asked property owners to check their land for anything suspicion.
He asked owners that have checked their land to call the Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851 or email CPDTips@charlottesville.org to let investigators cross those properties off the list.
“If you have seen tire tracks…that seem suspect, again, contact us,” Longo said. “We will make the assessment of what is relevant.”
The chief also asked for the help of Charlottesville-area realtors.
“If you are a realtor who serves the greater Charlottesville area, we are asking you to go to vacant properties to follow the same directives that we have asked property owners.”
The city of Charlottesville, the University of Virginia and the local community have contributed $100,000 to a reward for “information leading to the cause” of Graham’s disappearance.
Anyone with info is asked to call the tipline at 434-295-3851. All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.
Depend on CBS 6 News and WTVR.com for the latest updates on this important story.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Albemarle County, Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew, Justice, Morgan Harrington 








			12 comments		




 

Paula

What going on? They trying to get the lies straight.




							October 1, 2014 at 3:34 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

marie

Lies? Are you serious. This guy is a sociopath, (r)apist, and murderer. So, yes, They are getting their CASE straight so that there’s no possibility for him to see the light of day over ANY type of technicality.




							October 1, 2014 at 4:11 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

vastly amused

Are you the same person who posted a claim in another forum that this investigation is racially driven?
And which side are you claiming needs time to “get the lies straight”?




							October 1, 2014 at 6:15 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Deez

Yep it is that person she got caca between dems ears




							October 3, 2014 at 12:03 am						












 

Nancy Solomon

I think the request for a continuance from his lawyer is a ploy to buy time so they can do the following: discuss the charges and any evidence; decide whether to request a psychiatric evaluation on Mr. Matthew; and to delay the hearing several weeks hoping that things calm down and public interest has waned in the matter by the time of the December date.   I don’t think anyone should be surprised by the request or the fact that it was granted.  It gives the defense time to work with what they have and to explore how receptive the state might be to a plea deal. I suspect this is all strategy that is commonly employed by experienced criminal defense attorneys.




							October 1, 2014 at 4:46 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

EMBuckles

Yes, ma’am,  looks to me like standard defense lawyer tactics.   It will likely take a while, however, if the prosecution has all their ducks in a row and if he actually IS the one involved with these cases, they can and will nail him.




							October 1, 2014 at 5:04 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

lisa

It is fact that Jesse’s DNA matches the 2009 victim. I am sure he knows this by now. Her parents were told this. Just time to match it to Hannah’s.




							October 1, 2014 at 10:28 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

Jim

C’mon on, there is no way he’s getting bond. He’s a proven flight risk.




							October 1, 2014 at 6:46 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Working Man

I want to say something about this, I hope it offends nobody. Had that girl victim at Liberty U in 2002 pursued charges against Matthew like she should have, we may not be at this point now. Something to consider. I’ll be there’s upwards of 2-dozen victims of this guy since then.




							October 1, 2014 at 6:59 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Paula

He not getting no bond. That is just a part of his right. He shouldn’t want no bond.I don’t think he is that brave




							October 1, 2014 at 10:29 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Deez

Yous got caca between dems ears




							October 3, 2014 at 12:01 am						

Reply
Report comment









 

Garry

Strange that most of the murders are Football season times and dates!




							October 4, 2014 at 2:21 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


News

Woman pulls Jesse Matthew defense fund site over threats


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain



 


News

How easily was Jesse Matthew’s DNA taken and tested in Hannah Graham case?


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


News

Don’t assume there is ‘irrefutable DNA evidence’ against Jesse Matthew



 


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

A woman alerted authorities to Jesse Matthew camped on Texas beach






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
















































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















