Morgan Harrington’s Parents: Jesse Matthew murder | WTVR.com  
Morgan Harrington’s Parents: Jesse Matthew murder | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Morgan Harrington’s mom: Hannah Graham, Morgan vanished same time of year

Posted 2:38 pm, October 1, 2014, by CNN Wire, Updated at 02:44pm, October 1, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 



It was the picture of Jesse Matthew that made the father of slain Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington do a double-take.
It was uncanny how much the suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham resembled the police sketch of the man wanted in connection with the kidnapping and sexual assault of a woman in Fairfax, Viriginia, in 2005. Police also linked that suspect to Harrington’s case.
Could it be the same man? Could it be the man behind the 2009 killing of their 20-year-old daughter, Morgan Harrington?
“I told Gil this person might have been involved in Morgan’s murder,” Dan Harrington told Anderson Cooper Tuesday on CNN’s “AC360.”
Harrington’s comments came a day after Virginia State Police said there was a “new forensic link” between the Graham and Harrington cases. On Tuesday, a law enforcement official speaking on condition of anonymity told CNN that DNA evidence links Matthew to the death of Harrington.
Almost from the beginning, after news of Graham’s disappearance, Harrington’s parents were struck by the similarities between the two cases.
Morgan Harrington
“Both Hannah’s going missing and Morgan’s abduction happened about the same time of year,” Gil Harrington said. It also happened about the same time of night, and with some of the same circumstances, she said.
Harrington went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009. Her remains, including splintered bones, were found on a farm on the outskirts of the city in late January 2010.
The last major development in the Harrington case came in 2010, when her slaying was connected to the kidnapping and sexual assault of another woman in Fairfax in 2005.
That woman was able to provide police with enough of a description to make a sketch. Police at the time did not identify the woman who provided the description and said only that “forensic evidence” linked the two cases.
It’s that sketch and its similarity to Matthew that is the closest thing the Harrington family says they have to an answer as to who possibly was responsible for killing their daughter.
“You don’t get over it,” Gil Harrington said. “But I do believe you get past it,” and you can work to help others, she said.
The priority right now, she said, is finding Graham.
Graham was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Investigators believe Matthew was the last person with Graham. He has been charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, and he is being held in jail in isolation, according to Charlottesville police.
Police investigators have not publicly connected the dots except to say that the arrest of Matthew has given them a break in Harrington’s case.
Dan Harrington has a message for the man he believes killed his daughter: “I would like to say how could you take another person’s life? How could you possibly be so awful to abduct someone and kill them? … It’s beyond understanding.”


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Crime, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew, Morgan Harrington 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

Family of Morgan Harrington — a ‘true original’ — searches for answers



 


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

Authorities probe unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham mystery


News

How easily was Jesse Matthew’s DNA taken and tested in Hannah Graham case?


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state



 


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Drones deployed over Virginia to search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Morgan Harrington’s mom says ‘possibility of good outcome’ exists for Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts




























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















