How easily was Jesse Matthew DNA taken in Hannah Graham case? | WTVR.com  
How easily was Jesse Matthew DNA taken in Hannah Graham case? | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







How easily was Jesse Matthew’s DNA taken and tested in Hannah Graham case?

Posted 8:09 pm, October 2, 2014, by Joe St. George, Updated at 09:39am, October 3, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




RICHMOND, VA (WTVR) — The arrest of Jesse Matthew has raised questions and inquiries as to the nature of DNA, how it is collected and from what is it collected and tested.
CBS 6 reporter Joe St. George spent Thursday with forensic  psychologist Mike Banks, who explained how easily DNA is left behind.
“If I put my hand on this car door, DNA is left behind,” Banks said.
Banks said DNA is typically left in cars on seat belts and arm rests getting in and out.
“I’m an old geezer – hair can be falling out,” Banks said. “One single hair can prove the fact at least I was here.”
In terms of extracting DNA, Banks says it is typically done using a black light and cotton swab.
After that, the cotton swab is taken to a DNA lab where it is placed in a reagent for several hours. At that point, the liquid is able to be analyzed by a machine to determine any potential match.
Arcpoint lab specialist Michelle Smith, who works with DNA in determining paternity tests, says the biggest error comes in the collection of the cells, when cotton swabs may contain more than one person’s DNA.
“It could possibly interfere with the accuracy of the results,” Smith said.
DNA links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington Case
Sources close to the investigation confirmed to CBS 6 reporter Laura French that Jesse Matthew Jr. has been forensically linked to the 2009 disappearance of 20-year-old Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington.
Matthew is the primary suspect in the case of missing 18-year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. Graham was last seen leaving a bar with Matthew, on Sept. 13.
Law enforcement sources indicated that forensic evidence belonging to Matthew  matched forensic evidence collected during the Harrington investigation.
The sources would not indicate what Matthew may or may not have done with Harrington, however the sources indicated that the forensic evidence match showed Harrington had some sort of contact with Matthew the night she disappeared outside John Paul Jones arena on October 17, 2009. Her remains were found in January 2010 on an Albemarle County farm.
Officials at Christopher Newport University confirmed they opened a disciplinary file on Matthew.  for a reported sexual assault that happened in 2003, when he was briefly a student there and a member of the football team.
Matthew, age 32, is currently charged in the abduction, with intent to defile, of missing University of Virginia second-year student Hannah Graham.
Matthew attended the CNU from January 2003 through October 15, 2003. He was a member of the football team from August 14 to Sept. 12, 2003.
“Students don’t usually leave in the second month of the semester or leave the football team within a month,” wrote a university official in a press release.
There is a single file related to Matthew at CNU. However, the University said they are withholding this record pursuant to the exception from mandatory disclosure, in cooperation with law-enforcement agencies.
Matthew also was questioned in connection with an alleged sexual assault nearly 12 years ago, authorities said.
But no charges were filed because the woman didn’t want to go forward with the case and investigators determined there wasn’t enough evidence to arrest Matthew, said Michael Doucette, the commonwealth’s attorney for Lynchburg, Virginia.
According to a statement from Lynchburg police, the woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University on October 17, 2002.
Matthew told authorities that the woman consented, Doucette said, adding that there were no witnesses.
Matthew’s father spoke publicly, for the first time, to CBS 6. He said his son would not have harmed Graham.
“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” Jesse Matthew Sr. said. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.
“To kill or hurt somebody, that’s not my son.”
Last week Matthew appeared before Galveston County Judge Mark Henry on a charge of giving false information to a Texas police officer.
Matthew’s Virginia-based lawyer had little to say about his client when approached this week outside his Charlottesville office.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” James Camblos said. “I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not.”
Matthew willingly went to a police station last weekend, along with several family members, walking through the front door and asking for a lawyer, Longo said. There was no warrant for his arrest at that time.
Matthew and the lawyer spoke and then left, the police chief said, giving detectives no clearer picture of what may have happened the day Graham disappeared. Because he has retained counsel, police cannot question him.
Incidents Jesse Matthew Jr.  has been connected to:

Oct. 17, 2002 – Alleged sexual assault at Liberty University
Sept. 7, 2003 – Reported CNU assault
Sept. 24, 2005 – Northern Virginia rape (forensic evidence linked to Morgan Harrington case)
Oct. 17, 2009 – Morgan Harrington disappearance
Sept. 13, 2014 – Hannah Graham disappearance

Law enforcement investigating cases for possible connection to Matthew:

July 24, 2003 — Autumn Day in Newport News
Sept. 7, 2003 – Sophia Rivera in Newport News
August 26, 2009 – Heidi Childs and David Metzler, in Blacksburg
Oct. 10, 2009 – Cassandra Morton, not far from Lynchburg
Sept. 13, 2010 – Samantha Clarke, in Orange County

Cases unsolved in the area near Charlottesville 

Jan. 24, 2010 – Joan Cook, Roanoke County
Nov. 21, 2011 — Lauren Smith, Madison County
Nov. 20, 2012 — Dashad Sage Smith, Charlottesville
August 3, 2013 – Alexis Murphy, Shipman (Randy Taylor jailed for this, body never

Anyone with info is asked to call the tipline at 434-295-3851. All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.
Depend on CBS 6 News and WTVR.com for the latest updates on this important story.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.

 



Filed in: News Topics: DNA, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew, Joe St. George, Local 








			10 comments		




 

Paula

Are randy dna being tested also? Maybe it him instead of jesse had something to do with all thses wpmen.




							October 3, 2014 at 5:49 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

me

Paula, you’re drunk, go to sleep.




							October 3, 2014 at 7:36 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

david

After watching video of the CNU President talking about the situation at CNU,  well, I guess I should be careful what I say…It is disturbing.  After a report of sexual assault by Mathews, the president went to the team, not to just Mathews, and told them to act right or he would cancel the entire football program.  What else had happened there?  Are these reports and situations reported to the police?  Is getting kicked off the team a substitute for criminal law enforcement?




							October 3, 2014 at 8:24 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Paula

@me. First of all stop hiding behind that stupid name me. Maybe the police need to check yout DNA.




							October 3, 2014 at 11:46 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

BARACK EBOLA

THIS IS HOW YOU DEAL WITH BLACK PEOPLE.
http://clashdaily.com/2014/10/armed-blacks-attack-white-family-doesnt-work-like-thugs-hoped/




							October 3, 2014 at 1:51 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Pam

THIS IS HOW WE DEAL WITH YOUR DUMB A$$…… PHUCK YOU UP!!!!!




							October 3, 2014 at 2:03 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

BARACK EBOLA

PAULA DONATED TO THE JESSE MATTHEW LEGAL DEFENSE FUND.




							October 3, 2014 at 1:52 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Paula

@ Barack no I didn’t  donate to Jessie fund but I will donate to yours. There was a fund set up for you to get more education so that you can learn how to deal with black people and stop being a racist. Also not to write a comment with all capitol letters. Have your DNA been tested to find out if you are related to Honey Boo Boo family? I will be willing to donate to that fund also.




							October 4, 2014 at 6:42 am						

Reply
Report comment









 

Erin

Unless Jesse owns or knows someone who owns a rifle I’m not sure the Heidi and David murders are related at all.




							October 4, 2014 at 12:09 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Kristin

Forensic psychologists have zero training in DNA evidence. Kinda weird he’s speaking to that topic…




							October 4, 2014 at 9:28 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Don’t assume there is ‘irrefutable DNA evidence’ against Jesse Matthew


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

Commonwealth’s attorney will order ‘scientific testing’ to rule out Jesse Matthew in Alexis Murphy case


News

Authorities probe unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham mystery


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail



 


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

Specific technology alerted authorities that suspect Jesse Matthew was on the run


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

FBI, Virginia State Police investigated possible link between Alexis Murphy and Hannah Graham



 


News

‘He’s as gentle as they come,’ says dad of abduction suspect in Hannah Graham case


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington


News

Morgan Harrington’s mom: Hannah Graham, Morgan vanished same time of year






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts










































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















