Hannah Graham Abduction: Parents say someone can ‘end this nightmare’ | WTVR.com  
Hannah Graham Abduction: Parents say someone can ‘end this nightmare’ | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’

Posted 12:34 pm, October 4, 2014, by Nick Dutton and Chelsea Rarrick, Updated at 12:07pm, October 5, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — The parents of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham released an emotional video statement on Saturday pleading for help bringing their missing daughter home.
The 18-year-old was last seen spotted exactly three weeks ago in the early hours of Saturday, Sept 13 on Charlottesville’s Downtown Mall.
“Somebody listening me today either knows where Hannah is or knows someone who has that information,” Sue Graham said fighting back tears. “We appeal to you to come forward and tell us where Hannah can be found.”
John Graham, who first spoke publicly almost two weeks ago, is beside his wife’s side as she delivers a powerful statement.
“John has already said that this is every parent’s worst nightmare. That is true. But it is also nightmare for  our son, James, for Hannah’s grandparents, and other members of our family as well for Hannah’s many friends here in Charlottesville and beyond,” Sue Graham said.
Graham also said that despite an individual has been charged in Hannah’s abduction, and the massive search efforts, no trace of Hannah has been found.
“Help end this nightmare for all of us. Please help us to bring Hannah home,” Sue Graham begs as her husband takes his wife in his arms.

The couple again thanked the entire community as well as those who are working so hard to find their daughter.
“We would like to again express our enormous gratitude to all those who have been involved in the search for Hannah,” Sue Graham said. “The police, the professional search teams, the people staffing the telephone tip line, UVa. students, our friends, neighbors and work colleagues — as well as the citizens of Charlottesville and the surrounding area.
On Saturday, crews continued their search for any trace of Graham. A special aircraft was used Saturday that has a high -resolution camera that flies about a 100 square kilometer grid west side of the Charlottesville City area and extended north to west.
Crews also combed through wooded areas and talked to property owners.
“You all are trying so hard,” said Marnie Johnson, whose family owns land in the Keswick area. “I can’t imagine trying to comb an area this size.”
Graham’s parents also thanked Charlottesville, the university and public, who have contributed to the reward fund, which has grown to $100,000 for information leading to Hannah.
“We have been overwhelmed by the generosity of you all,” Sue Graham said fighting back tears.




Since Graham vanished, police have received over 3,500 tips on what might have happened that night.
While police have a suspect in custody in connection to Hannah’s disappearance, they have not been able to locate Hannah.
Graham was last seen in Charlottesville’s Downtown Mall on Sept. 13. Investigators believe suspect Jesse Matthew, 32, was the last person with her. He is charged with abduction with the intent to defile.
Anyone with information about Graham’s whereabouts is asked to call a special tip line at 434-295-3851. All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.
The Search for Hannah Continues
As Virginia State Police resumed the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham Friday, the Virginia Department of Emergency Management had a special message for people headed into the weekend.
“I know there is a lot of hiking and outdoors activity with hunters and so forth,” VDEM search and rescue coordinator Mark Eggeman said. “We ask them to look at those trails. As they go out, keep their eyes open.  Tell us if you see something out of the ordinary.”
A 40-person team searched the woods of Albemarle County on Friday for Hannah. The search effort would ramp up over the weekend, Eggeman said. In addition to more searchers on the ground, VDEM expected to use he canines and all-terrain vehicles.
“We’re going to focus on those area towards the north where we continue to follow-up on investigative leads,” he said. “We’re going to try and cover an eight-mile radius.”
Cloud cover prevented an air search for Hannah on Friday.
Where is Hannah Graham?
It was late on a Friday night and a freckled, blue-eyed University of Virginia student named Hannah Graham was partying in downtown Charlottesville, Virginia.
Graham, described as an accomplished athlete and straight-A student, was seen various times before her disappearance in the early hours of September 13.
She was at a party and later at an apartment complex, just blocks away.  A surveillance camera caught her outside a pub, where she was turned away.
She was next seen running past a gas station, and witness accounts have her walking onto the Downtown Mall, a pedestrian thoroughfare lined with restaurants and shops. There were a few people out walking around, and surveillance cameras help capture the track Graham took.
A surveillance camera at an Italian cafe captured her walking eastbound along the mall about 1:06 a.m. A camera at a jewelry store recorded her passing two minutes later.
That camera footage appears to show her walking with Matthew, which a witness confirmed, saying Graham was approached by a man who put his arm around her.
Matthew was originally spotted on a camera mounted at the Italian café, heading the opposite way  Graham was. The video shows him cross over and fall into step behind the 18-year-old.
Police said that at 1:20 a.m., she texted her friends to say she was lost and trying to find a party.
However, she told her friends, according to police, that she was lost at a location near her apartment – which was 1.5 miles from where she was spotted on camera ten minutes before the text.
One witness told police she and a man were seen having drinks at a bar between 1:30 and 2 a.m.
But the owner of the restaurant released a contradictory statement, saying that Matthew had been inside the bar, but Graham had not.
She may have been under the influence of alcohol, Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.

DNA links Matthew to Morgan Harrington Case
Sources close to the investigation confirmed to CBS 6 reporter Laura French that Matthew has been forensically linked to the 2009 disappearance of 20-year-old Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington,
Those sources indicated that forensic evidence belonging to Graham suspect Jesse Matthew Jr., matched forensic evidence collected during the Harrington investigation.
The sources would not indicate what Matthew may or may not have done with Harrington, however the sources indicated that the forensic evidence match showed Harrington had some sort of contact with Matthew the night she disappeared outside John Paul Jones arena on October 17, 2009. Her remains were found in January 2010 on an Albemarle County farm.
Matthew also was questioned in connection with an alleged sexual assault nearly 12 years ago, authorities said.
But no charges were filed because the woman didn’t want to go forward with the case and investigators determined there wasn’t enough evidence to arrest Matthew, said Michael Doucette, the commonwealth’s attorney for Lynchburg, Virginia.
According to a statement from Lynchburg police, the woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University on October 17, 2002.
Matthew told authorities that the woman consented, Doucette said, adding that there were no witnesses.
Matthew’s father spoke publicly, for the first time, to CBS 6. He said his son would not have harmed Graham.
“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” Jesse Matthew Sr. said. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.
“To kill or hurt somebody, that’s not my son.”
Last week Matthew appeared before Galveston County Judge Mark Henry on a charge of giving false information to a Texas police officer.
Matthew’s Virginia-based lawyer had little to say about his client when approached this week outside his Charlottesville office.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” James Camblos said. “I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not.”
Matthew willingly went to a police station last weekend, along with several family members, walking through the front door and asking for a lawyer, Longo said. There was no warrant for his arrest at that time.
Matthew and the lawyer spoke and then left, the police chief said, giving detectives no clearer picture of what may have happened the day Graham disappeared. Because he has retained counsel, police cannot question him.

Depend on CBS 6 News and WTVR.com for the latest updates on this important story. 



One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham 








			6 comments		




 

Tony Glynn

What a bitter reply. Sad blackbeeder. I hope and pray that the Graham family gets the closure that they deserve. Please check all possible DNA from past missing persons because the shoe fits matthews. Lower case because he’s lower than human.




							October 4, 2014 at 3:39 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Rickenhouse

why so bitter BLACKBEERED?? Guess you have a blackened heart towards ppl unless it involves you or your immediate family. I pray that this never happens in your family because you would be so dark and cold to everyone just like you have replyed here to this mother and father pleading for answers and so that they can lay there child to rest as we know it is looking like she is dead but your response is down right hateful and unhuman like.
I am also praying that the Graham family does get the closure that they deserve.
And for matthews they need to cut everything off one by one and make his a$$ suffer not get no three hots and a cot he dont deserve that he should be shot and left in a very shallow grave or thrown in some field somewhere




							October 4, 2014 at 5:28 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Paula

Blackbeered comment has been remove and that because I reported it. He deserve to burn in hell for the terrible things he said.




							October 4, 2014 at 9:43 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Penelope

Everyone needs to burn in hell according to Paula. Hell needs a supervisor. She should apply.




							October 5, 2014 at 11:29 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

BUG

He went all the way to Texas she may never be found. Alexis Murphy 1 year later never found.Pray for them.




							October 6, 2014 at 9:08 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Paula

Penelope I can’t be supervisor because didn’t you know that they promoted your mom to that postion but you next in line after she get finish burning. So I guess that mean that you agree with all the bad things Blackbeered said.




							October 6, 2014 at 12:01 pm						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’


News

Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall



 


News

Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham beseech students to be safe this weekend


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

Police search for ‘person of interest’ in UVa. student Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Police announce new clues in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 
















