Student's mom: 'We are trying to find you' - CNN.com Student's mom: 'We are trying to find you' - CNN.com  


















SET EDITION:  U.S.
INTERNATIONAL
MÉXICO
ARABIC




TV:  
CNN
CNNi
CNN en Español
HLN





Sign up
Log in

















Home
TV & Video
U.S.
World
Politics
Justice
Entertainment
Tech
Health
Living
Travel
Opinion
iReport
Money
Sports






 




 







 

 

















Share this on:


Mixx
Facebook
Twitter
Digg
delicious
reddit
MySpace
StumbleUpon
LinkedIn











 Student's mom: 'We are trying to find you'    Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington, 20, disappeared from a Metallica concert on October 17. STORY HIGHLIGHTSMorgan Harrington was separated from friends at Metallica concert on October 17A $150,000 reward is being offered for information; 350 tips have come inWoman fitting 20-year-old Virginia Tech student's description spotted by bridgeHarrington's purse, cell phone found next day in overflow parking lot near arena (CNN) -- The parents of a Virginia Tech student who disappeared last month during a Metallica concert asked Wednesday for volunteers to help conduct a community search this weekend. Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old education major, went to the concert at the University of Virginia's John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville, Virginia, on October 17. Police said they are continuing to follow leads in the case, but have no new information. "We will stop at nothing until she is found," Harrington's father, Dan Harrington of Roanoke, Virginia, told reporters Wednesday. During the concert, Harrington left her friends to use the restroom, Virginia State Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller said Wednesday, and when she did not return they called her on her cell phone at 8:48 p.m. She told them she was outside the arena and could not get back in because of its policy, Geller said, but told them not to worry about her and that she would find a ride home. There are restrooms inside the arena, Geller said, and police do not know how or why Harrington got outside. Witnesses who saw her outside the arena said she did not appear to be with anyone, Geller said. 
We will stop at nothing until she is found.--Dan Harrington

At about 9:30 p.m. that night, witnesses reported seeing a person matching Harrington's description walking on a nearby bridge, Geller said. No further sightings were reported. Harrington's purse, with her identification and cell phone inside, was found the following day in an overflow parking lot near the arena, Geller said. A friend had driven Harrington's car to the concert, she said, and so was still in possession of the car keys when they got separated. Police would not say whether Harrington was intoxicated. A $150,000 reward has been offered for information leading to Harrington's whereabouts, Geller said. Of that, Metallica contributed $50,000. Authorities have received more than 350 leads since Harrington disappeared, Geller said. She was reported missing the day after the concert, when she did not show up at her parents' home to study for a math exam with her father. 



Video: Missing student seen on bridge


 
RELATED TOPICS


Missing Persons

Metallica

Virginia State Police


Working with police and the Texas-based Laura Recovery Center, the Harringtons organized the community search to begin Friday and reconvene Saturday or Sunday. The couple was joined at the Wednesday press conference by Ed Smart, whose daughter Elizabeth was abducted in 2002. She returned home nine months later after police found her in the custody of suspect Brian David Mitchell and his wife, Wanda Barzee. "When a child is missing, you have no idea of what to do and how to move forward," Smart said, calling it "the club that nobody wants to belong to." "There isn't a parent out there that would want to be in his position," he said of Harrington. "The importance of it is, there's a girl that is lost out there that needs to be found." Harrington said he reached out to Smart last week to seek advice on how to go through the disappearance of a child. Smart has been supportive and helpful, he said, and offered to come to Virginia and speak to reporters Wednesday.  Gil Harrington spoke briefly. "Morgan, two-for-one," she said, referring to a motto on a Web site set up by the family, www.findmorgan.com: "I love you too much, forever and once more." "We are trying to find you," she told her daughter. "We will never stop. We are trying, honey, hang on. And to the person who has taken Morgan from us, please just let her go." Dan Harrington said Smart's story had provided them with hope. "People do come back," he said. "Not everyone is lost. We have to hold out hope that our daughter will return to us." Smart told reporters he never lost hope that his daughter was alive, but "that doesn't mean there wasn't doubt at times." "I believed she was still out there and felt that she would come home," he said. "That's what we're hoping for with Morgan. We just want to see her come home ... I believe that somebody can help us." Harrington is 5 feet 6 inches tall and weighs 120 pounds, with blond hair and blue eyes. She was wearing a black Pantera T-shirt, a black miniskirt, black tights and black boots when last seen.


















Share this on:


Mixx
Facebook
Twitter
Digg
delicious
reddit
MySpace
StumbleUpon
LinkedIn













FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Student was excited about concert 


Family's Web site 


Check out Nancy Grace's new blog 

 More Justice



New York nanny pleads not guilty in children's deaths


2nd suit claims Elmo puppeteer had sexual contact with minor


BP blocked from new government contracts over Gulf spill


 




 













 


NewsPulse

Most popular stories right now


LeBron James and Steve Ballmer win big in NBA deal





Not everything Apple touches is gold





Disney bails out its European theme park





The Shanghai Free Trade Zone is a dud





HP to split into two companies




Explore the news with NewsPulse »
























Law firm search










Search for attorneys by location and area of practice.Enter the city name below. 
				



Select a state
AK
AL
AR
AZ
CA
CO
CT
DC
DE
FL
GA
GU
HI
IA
ID
IL
IN
KS
KY
LA
MA
MD
ME
MI
MN
MO
MS
MT
NC
ND
NE
NH
NJ
NM
NV
NY
OH
OK
OR
PA
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VA
VT
WA
WI
WV
WY
---
AB
BC
MB
NB
NF
NS
NW
ON
PE
QU
SK
YT

Area of practice
Divorce
Family Law
Criminal Law
Bankruptcy
Immigration
Real Estate
Personal Injury
Medical Malpractice
Wills and Probate
Employment Law
Business Law
Civil Rights
Child Custody
Intellectual Property
Automobile Accidents
General Practice
Other






or: 
				advanced search





 
 


















Home | Video  | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports
Tools & widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alertsCNN shop | Site map | Contact us



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión
 |  |  | 
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts


© 2014 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Work for us | Help
CNN Newsource | License Footage














