Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student | Q13 FOX News  

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						
















Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student

Posted 2:30 PM, September 19, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 Hannah Elizabeth Graham 
Charlottesville, Virginia (CNN) — Authorities looking for a missing University of Virginia student have made a major break in the case, searching an apartment and a vehicle in the college town Friday morning, said Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo.
Longo said three males were present when police arrived to search the apartment, but no one was detained or questioned.
One of the three men matched the description of a “person of interest” in the investigation into missing 19-year-old Hannah Elizabeth Graham, but there was no probable cause to detain him or the other two men, Longo said.
The three men were identified and allowed to leave the scene, which they did, police said.
The person of interest is related to the vehicle that was searched and seized, but it was not clear if he is the owner, police said.
The first search began when police arrived 4 a.m. Friday to search the vehicle, but Longo declined to say what led investigators to the vehicle in their hunt for the whereabouts of Graham, who was last seen Saturday. Her parents fear foul play was involved.
The vehicle search then led police to seek a search warrant for a local apartment, authorities said.

Longo also declined to say what evidence may have been gathered in the search of the apartment, where no one was inside. Longo said they don’t know where the residents are, and no one has been questioned.
No one is in custody, and a vehicle was impounded and is being checked for forensic evidence, authorities said.
Investigators are offering a $50,000 reward for “information leading to the cause” of her disappearance, police said.
A man who was captured on business surveillance cameras told officers he was following Graham because she looked distressed and that he saw Graham with another man, and the two appeared to know each other, police said.
That other man has become a “person of interest,” police said.
Graham, a sophomore, is described as a straight-A student, and an accomplished athlete from northern Virginia. She’s about 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles, the university said in a release asking for tips about the teen’s disappearance.
Graham left a dinner with a group of friends around 11 p.m. last Friday. Around 1:20 a.m. Saturday, she sent a text to friends saying she was lost, CNN affiliate WTVR reported.
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
Her parents attend a candlelight vigil Thursday night organized by students, which the couple described as “extremely moving.”
“We were comforted by the evident high esteem in which our cherished daughter is held by her many friends at the University of Virginia and beyond,” John and Sue Graham said in a statement. “We continue to be optimistic that Hannah will soon be returned safely to us.”



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 RED BAND SOCIETY
New Episode WED 9p
See Steven Spielberg’s latest project. Watch Red Band Society on Q13 FOX.












Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68










Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student






National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia






Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


News

Police:  Stolen road construction signs lead to major identity theft ring






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















