Police search property in SW Virginia in 40-year-old Md. Lyon sisters disappearance case | WJLA.com 
Police search property in SW Virginia in 40-year-old Md. Lyon sisters disappearance case | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Police search property in SW Virginia in 40-year-old Md. Lyon sisters disappearance case

By ABC 7 News, Roz Plater

			September 16, 2014 - 07:25 pm Updated: September 16, 2014 - 11:48 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



THAXTON, Va. (ABC/WJLA) - After nearly 40 years investigators from Maryland are in Bedford County in southwest Virginia looking for clues in the disappearance of two little girls, authorities confirmed to ABC 7 News.
Continue reading





Katherine Lyon, left, and her sister Sheila Lyon, right, were last seen leaving to walk to Wheaton Plaza Shopping Center in Montgomery County in March of 1975. (File photos)



More on this story


Lyon sisters cold case could break open soon

Lloyd Lee Welch, Jr. named person of interest

Childhood friend of Lyon sisters speaks out

Complete coverage: Lyon sisters case



Police have been searching a wooded area in the 3400 block of Taylor Mountain Road in Thaxton for days, according to neighbors. On Tuesday, teams searched the woods with dogs, while a state search and rescue trailer was parked in a nearby staging area.
"Since last week, Montgomery County detectives have been in the area of Bedford County, working with the Bedford County Sheriff’s Office and the Virginia State Police," the Montgomery County Police Department said in a statement issued Tuesday night.
Dollie Estep, a Thaxton resident, said investigators had visited her home months ago and told her two of her uncles had been implicated in the disappearance of two sisters in Maryland in 1975. Katherine Lyon, 10, and Sheila Lyon, 12, were last seen eating pizza at a mall in Wheaton.
In February, Lloyd Welch, a sex offender currently serving time in a Delaware prison, was named a person of interest in the sisters' disappearance by the FBI. Estep said investigators told her Welch, a cousin, placed her two uncles at the scene; one of the uncles owned an acre of land in the area where police have been searching in recent days.
“I never even knew of the Lyon sisters,” said Estep. “It really is scaring me just to think maybe they could be up here or just something bad could happen in my family, my family be involved in something like that period. Yeah, that scares me."
Officers at the search scene said they expected their search would continue for several more days.
"Detectives are looking for evidence and gathering information that may indicate that Welch had a connection to the girls’ disappearance," the MCPD statement said.


Read More:
Maryland, 
Virginia, 
Missing Girls, 
Disappearance, 
Montgomery County Police, 
Wheaton MD, 
Wheaton, 
Montgomery County, 
Bedford County, 
Lyons Sisters, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Lyon Sisters, 
Lloyd Welch








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Cold case: Lamont Terry pleads guilty in 1992 D.C. murder of Chet Matthews



D.C. woman charged in summer beating death of her toddler son



Search continues, but no sign of missing kids in Montgomery County












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit
















Police search property in SW Virginia in 40-year-old Md. Lyon sisters disappearance case









Celebrity Buzz: Rihanna out after ripping CBS for not airing her song amid Ray Rice controversy









'Get Your Game Face On' CoverGirl ad attacked by NFL protesters upset over Ray Rice









Report of man with gun led to all-day lock-in for Alexandria schools, police search









2 missing Clarksburg, Md. kids believed dead; police build homicide case against mom





















News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

