Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham | fox4kc.com  
Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham

Posted 7:27 pm, October 1, 2014, by CNN Wire, Updated at 07:28pm, October 1, 2014 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 Police in Charlottesville, Virginia are looking for missing college student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. The University of Virginia student was last heard from on early Saturday morning, September 13, 2014 when she sent a text to friends at about 1:20 a.m. (Photo: Charlottesville Police/WTVR)
 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Virginia — The search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham now includes the use of an aerial drone — the first time, according to authorities, one has been used in the search for a missing person in the state.
The addition of the drone to the search effort comes more than two weeks after Graham disappeared from an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall.
The drone has a high-quality camera, and it will “look closer” at objects of interest, said John Coggin, chief engineer of the Mid-Atlantic Aviation Partnership and one of the members of the team operating the drone.
As the drone worked from overhead Wednesday, more than 50 law enforcement personnel participated in the search in Fairfax County.
Investigators believe Jesse Matthew, 32, was the last person with Graham, who was last seen September 13. He has been charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, and he is being held in jail in isolation, according to Charlottesville police.
Matthew is being held in isolation in a Virginia jail cell.
Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of the 18-year-old, a second-year student at the university.
More than 3,000 tips to Graham’s possible whereabouts have poured in, Carter Johnson, a police spokesman, said.
As part of the search effort, police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
The drone is expected to help with the search of vast tracts of land in the country.
The search of Wednesday also included U.S. Route 29, outside of Charlottesville, where another woman reportedly disappeared.
The search follows reports that Virginia State Police found a “new forensic link” between the Graham case and the death of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, who went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009.
Harrington was last seen hitchhiking along U.S. Route 29, and her remains were found on a farm months later.
Almost from the start, speculation was raised about the possibility of a connection between Graham’s disappearance and Harrington’s death.
No arrests have been made in Harrington’s case, and the cause of her death is still under investigation.



Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Graham 











 






Parisi Artisan Coffee
Specialty Coffees- Order Online and Join the Coffee Club!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham


News

Missing student Hannah Graham spotted on video walking in opposite direction of apartment


News

Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction


News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham



 


News

Parents make desperate plea to help find their daughter


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder


News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond


News

Should drone photography be allowed at high school sporting events?


News

Man missing for a week found in good health



 


News

Missing nursing student Holly Bobo’s remains found in Tennessee


News

Navy pilot missing after jet collision is presumed dead


News

Realtor vanishes on the job; suspect arrested






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















