Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham | fox4kc.com  
Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham

Posted 12:56 pm, September 19, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, has been missing since Saturday, Sept. 13. She is a University of Virginia student. 

CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Authorities looking for a missing University of Virginia student have made a major break in the case, searching an apartment and a vehicle in the college town Friday morning, said Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo.
Longo said three males were present when police arrived to search the apartment, but no one was detained or questioned.
The first search began when police arrived 4 a.m. Friday to search a vehicle, but Longo declined to say what led investigators to the vehicle in their hunt for the whereabouts of Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 19, who was last seen Saturday. Her parents fear foul play was involved.
The vehicle search then led police to seek a search warrant for a local apartment, authorities said.
Longo also declined to say what evidence may have been gathered in the search of the apartment, where no one was inside. Longo said they don’t know where the residents are, and no one has been questioned.
No one is in custody, and a vehicle was impounded and is being checked for forensic evidence, authorities said.
Meanwhile, Charlottesville police released the description of a man identified as having contact with Graham the night she disappeared.
Police are seeking the individual for questioning and described him as a black man, 5-foot-10 to 5-foot-11, between 250 and 285 pounds, with a close-shaved head, goatee, and a slight “beer belly,” police said. The man is in his late 20s or early 30s and was seen wearing black jeans and a white T-shirt, police said.
The man was seen with Graham in the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville between 1 a.m. and 1:15 a.m. Saturday, police said.
Investigators are offering a $50,000 reward for “information leading to the cause” of her disappearance, police said.
A man who was captured on business surveillance cameras told officers he was following Graham because she looked distressed and that he saw Graham with another man, and the two appeared to know each other, police said.
Graham, a sophomore, is described as a straight-A student, and an accomplished athlete from northern Virginia. She’s about 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles, the university said in a release asking for tips about the teen’s disappearance.
Graham left a dinner with a group of friends around 11 p.m. on September 12. Around 1:20 a.m. September 13, she sent a text to friends saying she was lost, CNN affiliate WTVR reported.
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.


CNN’s Eric Fiegel reported from Virginia. Catherine E. Shoichet also contributed to this report. Michael Martinez wrote and reported from Los Angeles.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Graham 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Have a news tip?
Click here to tell FOX 4!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody


News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond


News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham


News

Missing student Hannah Graham spotted on video walking in opposite direction of apartment


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham



 


News

Parents make desperate plea to help find their daughter


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder


News

Four taken into custody in connection with Craigslist shooting, robbery


News

Police search for man charged with stealing KC police patrol car and shotgun



 


News

Ferguson police release name of officer who shot Michael Brown


News

Some believe her behavior is odd, but mom not (yet) a suspect in toddler’s hot car death


News

Families, neighbors shaken by violence in customarily quiet KC neighborhood






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















