Search for Hannah Elizabeth Graham Will Be 'Aggressive' - NBC News 
Search for Hannah Elizabeth Graham Will Be 'Aggressive' - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
'Meatless Mondays' Now a Part of School Lunch Menus
Visually Impaired Learn How To Shoot
4-Year-Old Brings 200 Bags of Heroin to Daycare: Police 
Could Selling Off Prized South African Rhinos Save Them?







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search















        BREAKING: Watch Hong Kong Pro-Democracy Protests Live







Charlottesville Police Department via WVIR

                            19 days
                            



News
  
Charlottesville police released this picture of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. 
 


Search for Hannah Elizabeth Graham Will Be 'Aggressive'





































Police in Charlottesville, Virginia, are conducting a widespread search for missing college student Hannah Elizabeth Graham and have brought in a bloodhound and seized electronic equipment from the 18-year-old's apartment in the hopes of finding her. "This investigation has been aggressive and will continue to be aggressive," police chief Tim Longo said at a press conference Wednesday. He asked Charlottesville landowners to inspect their properties for the missing girl, and said more than 100 tips have been sent in. The FBI is also assisting in the search.The University of Virginia sophomore vanished early Saturday after leaving an off-campus party. New surveillance, taken outside of a Charlottesville bar at 12:46 a.m. Saturday showed Graham briefly interacting with someone before walking east alone, police said. About 10 minutes later, she was caught on camera outside of a gas station, first walking, and then running before resuming a slower pace. At 1 a.m., a witness told police they saw Graham walking toward downtown. Twenty minutes later, Graham sent a text to her friend.Authorities believe Graham was intoxicated, but said that shouldn't be a focus. "Folks have gone very quickly to that issue and have attacked the character of this young lady," Longo said.“Hannah is beyond precious to us and we are truly devastated by her disappearance,” her family said in a statement read by police on Wednesday. “It's totally out of character for us not to have heard from her, and we fear foul play.”IN-DEPTHMissing UVA Student Hannah Graham 'Would Not Disappear' Abruptly: FamilySOCIAL— Erik Ortiz and Elizabeth Chuck
First published September 17 2014, 8:06 AM



 

 

 

 











About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

