Suspect in Hannah Graham Disappearance Linked to Second Missing Virginia Coed, Morgan Harrington | KTLA  
Suspect in Hannah Graham Disappearance Linked to Second Missing Virginia Coed, Morgan Harrington | KTLA






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






KTLA

 Menu

News
Morning News
Contests
Traffic
Social
Events
About




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 66°
High 87°





Wed


					65°  85°
					


Thu


					65°  82°
					


Fri


					63°  82°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Suspect in Hannah Graham Disappearance Linked to Second Missing Virginia Coed, Morgan Harrington

Posted 5:57 PM, September 29, 2014, by CNN Wire, Updated at 09:13pm, September 29, 2014 

Share this:FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 


Gone but not forgotten.
Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, disappeared in October 2009. Her remains were found a few months later.
In October 2009, college student Morgan Harrington left a Metallica concert at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville and disappeared. Her body as found months later in a field 10 miles away. (Credit: FBI)
Her death remains a mystery, but it’s back in the news this week because of the arrest of Jesse Matthew — the only known suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Virginia State Police have not said how the two cases are connected, except to say there is a “new forensic link.”
They are pursing that link with the hope of being able to provide, finally, some sort of closure for the Harrington family — whatever that may look like.
“There’s a suspect, and possibility of a link to Morgan’s murder, and I am so pleased that that has happened, but it doesn’t change a lot for us, in some ways,” Harrington’s mother, Gil Harrington, told CNN affiliate WSLS on Monday.
“You know, our bedroom is still empty upstairs. We’re still not going to have the grandchildren, the wedding, those things,” she said.
The disappearance
Harrington disappeared on October 17, 2009, after attending a Metallica concert at the University of Virginia’s John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville, Virginia.
She had been so excited about the concert, according to her mother, that she posted the tickets on the refrigerator about six months ahead of time. She tried on three outfits before settling on what to wear, a crystal necklace and a black T-shirt with the word “Pantera” spelled out in tan letters.
Police say she left her friends to use the restroom during the concert. When she did not return, her friends called her cell phone.
Harrington told them she was outside the arena and could not get back in because of its re-entry policy but not to worry and that she would find a ride home.
There are restrooms inside the arena and, to this day, it’s not clear why she left.
Jesse Matthew’s booking photo in Charlottesville, Virginia. (Credit: Albemarle-Charlottesville Regional Jail)
Witnesses later saw someone matching Harrington’s description walking along a nearby bridge. No further sightings were reported.
Harrington’s purse, along with her identification and cell phone, was found the following day in an overflow parking lot near the arena.
Her remains were discovered January 2010 on a nearby farm.
Another link
On a website dedicated to Harrington, the education major is described as a “true original.”
“Time is moving on so very quickly, but we are not. We are stuck in the limbo of not knowing, the purgatory of no answers, no justice. How can it be possible that 4 years! of investigation has not ferreted out your murderer (s?) We are determined to do just that, find him. Frantic actually, to find him before he kills again,” it reads.
Besides the connection to the Graham case, police have linked Harrington’s death with the kidnapping and assault of another woman in Fairfax, Virginia, in 2005.
That woman, who survived the attack, was able to provide police with enough of a description to make a sketch.
Authorities have not publicly identified the woman who gave the description but have said her case was connected to Harrington’s case through DNA.
If Matthew is linked to Harrington’s death, and Harrington’s death is linked to the kidnapping and rape of the woman in Fairfax, then is Matthew linked to the Fairfax case?
So many questions. So few answers.
But there’s at least one thing Harrington’s family knows — and for which it is grateful.
“I know where Morgan is. However this unfolds, I know where my girl is. She’s in a box in the living room,” Harrington’s mother told WSLS.
“Hannah Graham’s family do not know where their daughter is,” she said. “We need to find her. The investigation needs to find her and, most of all, her family needs to find her.”



Filed in: Nation/World Topics: hannah graham, Jesse Matthew, Morgan Harrington, uva, Virginia 











 






KTLA 5 News on Instagram








 

 


Popular



CHP Asks for Help From Witnesses Who Saw Irvine Crash That Killed 5 Teens



Memorials Held for 5 Teens Killed in Fiery Crash on Way Back From Knott’s Scary Farm



Fan Critically Injured After Being Beaten in Angel Stadium Parking Lot Following Playoff Game



Teen Driver in Fiery I-5 Crash in Irvine Didn’t Have a License;  5 Others Killed







 


Latest News



Lunar Eclipse …



OC Register Facing Flood of Complaints After Switching Delivery Services



Michael Phelps Suspended by USA Swimming for 6 Months



Tutor Sought in Alleged Computer Cheating Scandal at O.C. High School Arrested At LAX















Nation/World

Hannah Graham: Suspect in Case of Missing Coed in Custody


Local News

3 Men Arrested in Simi Valley on Suspicion of Identity Theft


Local News

2 Women Arrested on Suspicion of Fatally Beating Man, 65, at South L.A. Metro Station


Local News

Roommate Found Guilty of 2nd-Degree Murder in Death of Maribel Ramos


Local News

Bomb Squad Investigates Suspicious Package in Canoga Park; Schools Locked Down



 


Local News

4 Teens Charged With Murder in Beating Death of USC Grad Student; Bat Allegedly Used


Local News

O.C. Teen Tennis Player’s Death Saved Lives, Organ Donation Group Says


Local News

Former Neighbor Arrested After Body of Marine’s Pregnant Wife Found in Mine Shaft


Local News

Closing Arguments Begin for Roommate Accused of Murdering Army Vet


Local News

Maribel Ramos’ Killer Sentenced to 15 Years to Life in Prison, Says He Cared for Victim ‘More Than Anyone’



 


Local News

Neighbor Says Body of Missing Marine Wife Will Never Be Found: Court Documents


Local News

High School Tennis Player Morgan Wilson, 17, Dies 8 Days After Collapse on Run


Local News

O.C. Tennis Player, 17, ‘Fighting for Life’ After Collapse at Anaheim Park






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
KTLA 5 News on Social Media
Watch CW Shows




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5800 Sunset Blvd. Los Angeles, CA, 90028  •
		Copyright © 2014, KTLA		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















