Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance could be linked to 10 violent crimes against women in Virginia since 2002  - NY Daily News 

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance could be linked to 10 violent crimes against women in Virginia since 2002  - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs               Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance could be linked to 10 violent crimes against women in Virginia since 2002  The capture of Jesse Matthew, 32, in the case of the missing 18-year-old University of Virginia coed has authorities looking at the Charlottesville native in up to 10 rapes, murders and disappearances dating back to a rape allegation against the man 12 years ago. Matthew has only been charged in the Graham case, but officials have also linked him to a 2009 murder in Charlottesville and a 2005 rape in Fairfax.  BY   Sasha Goldstein     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Wednesday, October 1, 2014, 4:38 PM Updated: Thursday, October 2, 2014, 9:56 AM  A A A        Share this URL                         DaShad Laquinn Smith, 19 - 2012     
	He was last seen on Nov. 20, 2012 in Charlottesville, VA.
          Alexis Murphy, 17 - 2013     
	She was last seen on Aug. 3, 2013 in Lynchburg, VA.
          Samantha Ann Clarke, 19 - 2010     
	She was last seen on Sept. 13, 2010 in Orange County, VA. 
          Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 20 - 2014     
	She was last seen on Sept. 19, 2014 in Charlottesville, VA. 
          Morgan Dana Harrington, 20 - 2009     
	She was last seen on Oct. 17, 2009 in Charlottesville, VA. 
          Cassandra Ann Morton, 23 - 2009     
	She was last seen on Oct. 10, 2009 in Lynchburg, VA. 
          Unidentified - 2005     
	An unidentified woman was raped in Fairfax, VA.
          Sophie May Rivera, 31 - 2003      
	She was last seen on July 7, 2003 in Newport News, VA. 
          Autumn Wind Day, 24 - 2003     
	She was last seen on July 24, 2003 in Newport News, VA. 
          Unidentified - 2002     
	A fellow student at Liberty University accused Matthew of rape in 2002. 
    Jami Garrison/Getty Images 
Authorities are investigating whether previous abductions and rapes are connected.
   
	By the time authorities caught up with Jesse Matthew, huddled in a tent on a Texas beach, the man had fled 1,300 miles from where he was wanted in Virginia as the prime suspect in a college coed’s startling disappearance.

	Police have yet to find Hannah Graham, who vanished Sept. 13 in Charlottesville, and Matthew, caught on surveillance video early that morning with his arm around the teen’s shoulders, reportedly hasn’t cooperated with investigators.

	But the hulking 32-year-old’s arrest on an abduction with the intent to defile charge has allowed authorities to link Matthew to at least three other violent crimes against young women — and has officials around Virginia examining cold cases that contain startling similarities.

	In fact, Matthew’s name has come up in reexaminations of up to 10 rape, murder and disappearance cases across Virginia in the last 12 years, including the high profile 2009 murder of 20-year-old Morgan Harrington, also in Charlottesville, a Daily News review of local news reports found.

	“Since this most recent victim disappeared, I said time and again that if they could find out who was responsible there was a good chance the same person would be responsible for Morgan Harring and a number of others,” Clint Van Zandt, a former FBI profiler, told the Associated Press.

	Harrington, a Virginia Tech student from Roanoke, went missing after an October 2009 Metallica concert on the University of Virginia campus. Her remains were found three months later in rural Albemarle County. Forensic evidence has connected Matthew to the crime, law enforcement officials said this week.    David J. Phillip/AP Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., 32, has been charged only in the Graham case but is allegedly linked to other violent crimes.   

	That case remains unsolved, and DNA evidence of Harrington’s killer was matched to an unsolved 2005 rape in Fairfax, a Northern Virginia suburb of Washington, D.C., the FBI said in 2012.

	"I thought it seemed very similar to Morgan's situation, the question of her maybe being somewhat impaired and someone just picking her up," Harrington’s father, Dan Harrington, said on the “Today” show on Tuesday. "It really came to me about two weeks ago when I saw the picture (of Matthew) .... at that point I said, 'Oh my gosh, I think it's the same person.'"

	Once a stellar athlete, Matthew used his football prowess to earn a scholarship to Liberty University in Lynchburg, about 70 miles southwest of Charlottesville, in 2000. But he was booted from the team and expelled in 2002 after a fellow student accused him of rape, authorities told the AP.

	The dreadlocked suspect had charges dropped after the student “declined to move forward with prosecution,” according to the AP, and Matthew ended up leaving town for Christopher Newport University (CNU) in Newport News, a coastal community southeast of Richmond. There, Matthew attended school from January 2003 until withdrawing on October 15 of that year, WAVY-TV reported.

	During that time, two local women went missing.       findthemissing.org 
	Autumn Wind Day, 24, went missing while Matthew attended a Virginia university. Enlarge      findthemissing.org 
	Sophie May Rivera, 31, went missing two months after Day in 2003. Enlarge       
	Cassandra Morton, 23, went missing from Lynchburg, Va., in 2009. Matthew spent time in the city as a college student.  Enlarge   

	Autumn Wind Day, 24, vanished from a Food Lion two miles from the CNU campus on July 24, 2003. And on Sept. 7, 31-year-old Sophie May Rivera disappeared after leaving her home some seven miles from the university campus, according to the TV station.

	Neither woman has been seen since. Police plan to revisit the missing cases involving both women.

	“While there are no indications that Jesse Matthew is connected to these two cases, both will be reviewed,” Newport News police spokesman Lou Thurston told WAVY.

	Matthew, who spent a month on the CNU football team, left the squad five days after Rivera vanished. And he left school just a month later, according to CNU officials.

	“Students don’t usually leave in the second month of the semester or leave the football team within a month,” the university told the TV station in a statement this week. “However, federal student record privacy laws (FERPA) limit the information we can provide. The university is fully cooperating with law-enforcement agencies.”       Facebook 
	Hannah Graham, 18, is still missing, three weeks after she disappeared Sept. 13. Enlarge      AP 
	Morgan Harrington, 20, was killed in 2009 and her murder remains unsolved. Enlarge   

	It’s unclear where Matthew, a Charlottesville native, spent the next several years.

	But officials in Campbell County, west of Richmond, are taking a look at a possible link between Matthew and the murder of Lynchburg woman Cassandra Morton, 23, whose decomposing body was found in November 2009 on Candlers Mountain, The News & Advance of Lynchburg reported.

	The murder remains unsolved.

	"We had a conversation about that early on when we found out that he went to Liberty [University] and was familiar with the area," Campbell County Sheriff Steve Hutcherson told the newspaper.

	Around that same time, Harrington vanished from Charlottesville. And there are at least three other missing young women from the Charlottesville area from approximately the same time period. Samantha Ann Clarke, 19, disappeared from Orange County, just north of Charlottesville, in September 2010, while DaShad Laquinn Smith, 19, disappeared from Charlottesville in November 2012, WUSA-TV reported.    Galveston County Sheriff's Office Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. is due in court Thursday.   

	Alexis Murphy, 17, has been missing from Lynchburg in August of 2013, WUSA-TV reported, but another man, Randy Taylor was convicted of the girl’s murder this May, despite the fact that her body has never been found.

	Prosecutors said after Matthew’s arrest that there is “certainly no evidence at this time” that Matthew was involved.

	“If such evidence is discovered, Nelson County authorities along with the FBI and the Virginia State Police will act immediately," Anthony Martin, the Commonwealth’s Attorney for Nelson County, said in a statement.

	Matthew was working as a taxi driver in Charlottesville by 2010, WVIR-TV reported. And in August 2012, he was hired to work for the U. Va. Medical Center. He’s since been fired from that job.

	Matthew has only been charged in the Graham case.      

	But Harrington’s mother, who started a non-profit called “Save the Next Girl” after her daughter’s death, thinks there might be something to the theory that Matthew could be a serial killer or serial rapist.

	"If you look at the map and place the many missing or murdered young women in our area, it is a startling graphic," Gil Harrington told CNN last week. "I mean it’s a scatter pattern of loss. And either it’s a cluster phenomena or to me — to my eyes it’s not unlikely that some of it, at least, is attributable to one top-tier predator."

	Matthew is scheduled for a bond hearing on Thursday.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE FOR VIDEO

With News Wire Services

sgoldstein@nydailynews.com    Related Stories    Suspect linked to UVA student’s disappearance also tied to similar case: report          Search continues for Hannah Graham despite suspect’s arrest          UVA abduction suspect complains about jail bed           Texas woman recalls moment she locked eyes with UVA suspect          Man accused of abducting UVA student appears in Texas court          Police arrest Jesse Leroy Matthew in case of missing UVA student          Cops charge Jesse Matthew with abducting missing UVA student          Home of man seen with missing UVa student searched again          Man seen with missing UVA student wanted for reckless driving            


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In             
Crime Video


    Editor's Picks      Teresa Guidice says she was 'not expecting' jail time in Bravo special      "I didn't understand that part," the "Real Housewives Of New Jersey" star told "Watch What Happens Live" host Andy Cohen on a Bravo special where Teresa and her husband Joe discussed the prison terms to which they were sentenced last Thursday.       Yankees' Mark Teixeira has an eye on 150 games      Mark Teixeira spoke Monday about exchanging text messages with Alex Rodriguez, but a different kind of message — one delivered by Hal Steinbrenner last Wednesday — is the one that seems to be making an impact on the Yankees' first baseman.       Obama vows tough screenings to stop spread of Ebola      The U.S. will beef up airline passenger screening at home and abroad under a new plan to curb the spread of Ebola, President Obama said Monday.       Lupica: Jets not a pretty picture with dazed and confused QB      This is what it looks like when a player’s coach like Rex Ryan doesn’t have enough players. And when the player — Geno Smith — he needs the most to save his job can’t show up for a team meeting because he was confused about a time change.       Isola: NBA owners crying poverty need to be whistled after new TV mega-deal      Upon further review, Carmelo Anthony gave the Knicks a much bigger hometown discount than originally reported. His $124 million, five-year contract could look like chump change compared to the deals LeBron James and Kevin Durant are expected to sign in two years once the NBA’s new television deal kicks in.

       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       Carmelo Anthony ‘never thought about’ two-year deal with Knicks to cash in on NBA TV contract      Carmelo Anthony says he "never thought about" accepting a two-year contract like LeBron James did this summer, even if it meant missing out on the windfall from the landmark $24 billion TV deal the NBA has agreed to with ESPN and TNT.       Geno Smith was at the movies during Jets team meeting in San Diego: ‘I got the time mixed up’       Talk about a disaster flick. A day after the worst loss of the Rex Ryan era, second-year quarterback Geno Smith wasn’t talking about his brutal performance against the Chargers or this week’s matchup with Peyton Manning, rather he was trying to explain how the time difference between the East Coast and West Coast landed him in a movie theater instead of a Jets’ team film session.       Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       No charges in botched Ga. drug raid that injured baby      A Georgia grand jury has opted not to charge any police who took part in a drug raid that disfigured a toddler.       As NBA touts new TV deal, Deron Williams says players should prepare for another lockout      The numbers of the new television deal are astronomical, a sign that the NBA has never been as popular or profitable. But that won't prevent another work stoppage when the sides have an opportunity to opt out of the CBA before the 2017-18 season.       Video captures 49ers fans’ violent bathroom brawl 'over open stall'      A pair of violent thugs clad in red jerseys was filmed attacking fellow fans ahead of kickoff at San Francisco's Levi's Stadium Sunday in a vicious beat down that ended with one man in serious condition.       Massive affordable housing buildings slated for central Bronx      The center of the Bronx is about to become affordable housing central.       Woodhaven civic group takes aim at Sanitation Department infractions      A Woodhaven civic group says the Sanitation Department is needlessly ticketing the wrong business: its own storefront, which they say has been flagged at least three times this year for illegal dumping.       Detective details catching NYPD lieutenant warning cops of investigation      The lead detective in a massive ticket-fixing probe of the NYPD took the stand Monday to detail how he smoked out a Bronx lieutenant accused of leaking information to warn other cops. Detective Randy Katakofsky testified that he deliberately let information drop to Lt. Jennara Cobb suggesting he had wire taps on the cell phones of several high-ranking delegates and trustees from various cop unions.       Mighty Quinn: October 7      Editor’s note: Mighty One raced in the 10th race at Belmont on Saturday. Anyone make money?       Two boys die in Queens house fire      Two young boys, ages 6 and 11, died in a house fire in Queens that also left an adult in serious condition on Monday night, authorities said.       Sanford Rubenstein's mattress hauled off as evidence in alleged rape      Sanford Rubenstein’s mattress is now evidence. It was hauled off by police in an unmarked white van from the high-powered attorney’s swanky apartment Monday after lawyers for the woman who accused Rubenstein of rape declared they had the goods on him.       Ariel Russo's family will stand by lawyer Sanford Rubenstein      Allen and Sofia Russo said they were shocked to learn that a woman has accused their attorney of sexually assaulting her in his penthouse apartment following the Rev. Al Sharpton’s birthday party last week — and they don’t believe it’s true.       Residents want affordable mega-development in airspace over Sunnyside Yards      A group of Queens residents has an ambitious plan to help the mayor build affordable apartments in a desirable part of town.       

         COLD CASES  & TRUE CRIME        Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray A PECULIAR ITEM recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers.        Rooney's wife slain by lover Carolyn Mitchell  was one of those girls who seemed destined to make headlines. And did she ever.
        Justice Story: John du Pont The 1856 British Guiana one-cent magenta is a tiny octagonal red inch-wide stamp. Philatelic experts say that when it is auctioned at Sotheby’s in New York on June 17, this singular postal artifact is expected to fetch something around $20 million, the largest price ever paid for a stamp. By weight and size, it may be the most valuable object in the world. The stamp is just one souvenir of the strange legacy of John E. du Pont, a man who had everything money could buy but threw it away in one moment of blind violence.        Justice Story: Vampire king At more than 300 pounds and with dreadlocks cascading past his waist, Marcus Wesson, 57, was not what people generally think of when they hear the word “vampire.”        Justice Story: Deadly mother-in-law A Chicago undertaker summoned to a physician’s office took one look at a corpse on an exam table and diagnosed what should have been clear to the doctor.      Previous Next          Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Chef kills, dismembers and boils girlfriend: cops     2   3-month-old dies in hot car in Phoenix: cops     3   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     4   Sister of alleged Pa. cop-killer calls on him to give up     5   Seattle woman attacked by bridesmaids over hot dog: cops     6   Georgia teenager killed after high school football game     7   Man kills friend for 'poking' girlfriend on Facebook         8   Man who beheaded Timothy McLean in 2008 may go free one day     9   Mass. woman stashed drugs under butt enhancer: police     10   Wash. shop owner killed chasing down shoplifters          1   Chef kills, dismembers and boils girlfriend: cops     2   Man who beheaded Timothy McLean in 2008 may go free one day     3   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     4   Georgia teenager killed after high school football game     5   Mass. woman stashed drugs under butt enhancer: police     6   3-month-old dies in hot car in Phoenix: cops     7   British man in South African honeymoon murder pleads not guilty     8   Boston bombing suspect's friend too high to remember aftermath: attorney     9   Sister of alleged Pa. cop-killer calls on him to give up     10   DMV chief's son caught drunk driving: cops                 


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      