Virginia Tech lends drones to search for Hannah Graham - Roanoke Times: Blacksburg News  
Virginia Tech lends drones to search for Hannah Graham - Roanoke Times: Blacksburg News









            Close
        















Contests


Customer Care


Subscribe


Advertise


Submit News


eTimes






Virginia Tech lends drones to search for Hannah Graham - Roanoke Times: Blacksburg News













59°
Overcast




Roanoke Times




News



Crime


Politics


Education


Nation


World 


Blogs


Columns


Dan casey


Archives

 





                  RECENT STORIES
                
        






					    
							Media General, LIN Media shareholders approve merger
						




						posted: October 06
						











					    
							Gay marriage opponents aren't giving up
						




						posted: October 06
						























                  MORE
                
        






					    
							Same-sex couples celebrate 'historic day' in Virginia
						








					    
							Senate candidates bring their messages to two Roanoke events
						








					    
							Former Rocky Mount officer fined in gun conspiracy case
						








					    
							Smooch in Roanoke demonstrates low chance of spreading Ebola
						








					    
							Partner in Mountain Valley Pipeline faces criminal charges in Pa.
						








					    
							Roanoke man charged with murder after police discover father dead
						
















 
Local



Blacksburg


Christiansburg


Roanoke


Roanoke County


Salem


Smith Mountain Lake


Franklin County


Botetourt County


Bedford County


Radford


Floyd CountY


Pulaski County


Giles County

 





                  RECENT STORIES
                
        






					    
							Former Rocky Mount officer fined in gun conspiracy case
						




						posted: October 06
						














					    
							Smooch in Roanoke demonstrates low chance of spreading Ebola
						




						posted: October 06
						












COMMUNITY BLOGS































                  MORE
                
        






					    
							Partner in Mountain Valley Pipeline faces criminal charges in Pa.
						








					    
							Casey: Couple's power bills remain a mystery
						








					    
							New University Crossroads plan would add hotels, retail near Virginia Tech
						








					    
							Franklin County Bar Association endorses 2 to replace Judge Alexander
						








					    
							Roanoke area same-sex couples slow to apply for marriage licenses
						








					    
							VML events prompt street closings in downtown Roanoke today
						
















 
Sports



Colleges


Aaron McFarling 


High Schools


Redskins


Pulaski Mariners


Salem Red Sox


Outdoors


Nascar


Golf


Andy Bitter


Blogs


Columns

 





                  RECENT STORIES
                
        









					    
							NFL Notes: Ex-Hokie Thomas mixed about his NFL debut
						




						posted: October 06
						














					    
							Hidden Valley has school record outing at golf tournament
						




						posted: October 06
						























                  MORE
                
        






					    
							Ex-Timesland stars shine in Richmond-Liberty game
						








					    
							McFarling: Managers matter more than many think
						








					    
							Cousins, Wilson finding their way as NFL quarterbacks
						








					    
							Hokies continue to dig deep into tailback depth chart
						








					    
							Hokies sweep Allegheny Amateur
						








					    
							Lee Pulliam wins Late Model Stock Car's 'Super Bowl' in final lap at Martinsville
						
















 
Business



News


Blogs


Columns


Names & Changes

 





                  RECENT STORIES
                
        






					    
							Partner in Mountain Valley Pipeline faces criminal charges in Pa.
						




						posted: October 06
						














					    
							Virginia turns to hops as potential cash crop
						




						posted: October 05
						















Business Directory















                  MORE
                
        






					    
							South Jefferson Street is getting a Starbucks
						








					    
							Virginia turns to hops as potential cash crop
						








					    
							Roanoke Mountain Adventures coming to Wasena
						








					    
							Maggie Moo's, Mama Maria's close on Franklin Road
						








					    
							Upcoming events for the week of Oct. 5, 2014
						








					    
							Real estate transfers
						
















 
Weather



Current Conditions


Kevin Myatt

 





                  RECENT BLOG POSTS
                
        









					    
							Several rounds of rain possible over the next week
						




						posted: October 06
						














					    
							Frost warnings, freeze advisories issued west of Roanoke
						




						posted: October 04
						























                  RECENT COLUMNS
                
        






					    
							Weather Journal: September, fall often swings to wet, dry extremes
						








					    
							Weather Journal: The last great Roanoke River flood was 10 years ago
						








					    
							Weather Journal: Normal temperatures are not the norm
						








					    
							Weather Journal: Watch 2 patches of Pacific water for winter forecast
						








					    
							Frances kicked off triple tropical trouble 10 years ago
						








					    
							Weather Journal: Be discerning about online weather discussion
						
















 
A&E



> Best of: vote now


Arts


Books


Movies


Music


TV


Puzzles


Comics


Horoscopes


Events Calendar


Blogs


Columns

 








					    
							Arts & Extras: Roanoke has those horror films about bikes you've longed for (w/ video)
						




						posted: October 06
						














					    
							Wanda Jackson's Lyric Theatre show postponed indefinitely due to illness
						




						posted: October 06
						


























					    
							Arts & Extras: Landscape photographer Jim Ruff to give presentation at county library
						








					    
							Video - Cassadee Pope, "Everybody Sings," live at Sidewinders
						








					    
							Monday open book stuff
						








					    
							The 52 books a year challenge
						
















 
Life



> Best Of: Vote Now


Family


Food


Home/Garden


Shopping


Travel


Health


Celebrations


Calendar


Blogs


Columns


Submit Announcements

 











					    
							This weekend: Virginia Energy Star tax holiday
						




						posted: October 06
						














					    
							Chestnuts, apple butter and other fall treasures
						




						posted: October 06
						


























					    
							Bourbon all around
						








					    
							Roanoke featured in PBS green living series
						








					    
							Cornershot: Ready to teach
						








					    
							Dadline: Spank or spare?
						
















 
Opinion



Letters


Editorials


Commentary

 











					    
							Our view: What not to expect in the debates
						




						posted: October 06
						











					    
							Paine: Arm the Kurds, not Syrians
						




						posted: October 06
						


























					    
							Haldiman: CHIP changes child health outcomes
						








					    
							Pitts: You almost feel sorry for Sean Groubert
						








					    
							Letter:Columnist Starshine Roshell's 'primal scream' was a powerful prayer
						








					    
							Letters: Big 'Fireball' splash was the wrong message for young people
						
















 
Video
 
Photo



Paparazzi


Buy a photo

 



















 
Obituaries



Memoriams


Card of thanks

 



















 
Classifieds



FindIt


Marketplace


Notices


Yard Sales


Yard Sale Map


Place An Ad


Daily Deal

 



















 
Jobs



Create Account


Find A Job


Post A Job

 



















 
Homes



Homes For Sale


Open Houses


For Rent

 



















 
Cars




























Home


News



Local News



Blacksburg News





Virginia Tech lends drones to search for Hannah Graham

StoryComments 
Image (1)


        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






The Roanoke Times |  File

MG VT Drones 081314 P006
Gov. Terry McAuliffe holds a multirotor unmanned aircraft like the ones Virginia Tech is using to search for missing UVa student Hannah Graham.



 








Related Stories

Related: Ex-Va. Tech student promotes campus safety app










        Posted: Wednesday, October 1, 2014 8:28 pm


Virginia Tech lends drones to search for Hannah Graham
By Jacob Demmitt
jacob.demmitt@roanoke.com
381-1661
roanoke.com




Virginia Tech drones have taken to the skies in Albemarle County to help police in the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Police first reached out to Tech’s drone experts a couple of days ago asking for help as they try to comb through some “tough terrain,” according to Tech’s Mid-Atlantic Aviation Partnership Director Rose Mooney.
The Federal Aviation Administration granted emergency permission in just a couple of hours, and all the details were worked out in just a couple of days.
Mooney said Tech’s team arrived with two drones Wednesday afternoon.
The drones, a DJI F550 and Aeryon SkyRanger, both look like helicopters with multiple rotors and are equipped with traditional and infrared cameras.
According to the SkyRanger’s brochure, it’s a military-grade unmanned aircraft system capable of flying and transmitting high definition video for about 50 minutes at a time.
Mooney said the drones are able to fly lower than manned aircraft, which will give them a better look at the ground below.
They plan to stay for as long as they’re useful.
“We believe this is a high priority,” Mooney said. “This is important work. That’s what UAS are very good at and we’re very happy we are able to assist here and we’re hoping we’re able to help them find something that’s significant to find Hannah. It’s all about finding Hannah.”
Police departments across the country have started using drones for these kinds of searches, but it’s still far from common.
Albemarle County Police Chief Steve Seller said during a Wednesday news conference this is the first time he’s aware of law enforcement using drones for a search in Virginia.
Most practical uses of the technology have been banned in the United States as the FAA continues to develop rules for how drones can safely be incorporated into the national airspace alongside traditional planes. However, exemptions do exist for operations such as searches for missing persons.
Tech was named one of just six FAA-certified drone test sites in December, meaning the university is able to fly research missions without jumping through all the usual hoops.
Mooney said it also means the university has a strong working relationship with the FAA, which helped get the quick approval for this mission.
This is the first time Tech has been involved in any search like the one in the Graham case.
“We’re hoping to be able to assist more and more to help police departments with these types of operations,” Mooney said. “Because the quicker you can find someone who’s lost, the better it is.”
Police began searching for Graham shortly after she was reported missing in Charlottesville in the early hours of Sept. 13.
Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. has been arrested and charged with her abduction, though Graham has yet to be found.
The search for Graham has now expanded to Albemarle County, an area authorities say Matthew knew well.
 


 



More Coverage

Virginia Tech to expand concussion research beyond football


More about Hannah Graham

ARTICLE: Charlottesville Chief: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham'
ARTICLE: Hannah Graham's parents beg for information about her
ARTICLE: UVa, localities form safety committee in wake of Graham disappearance
ARTICLE: Matthew hearings in Dec.; Nelson Co. agrees to testing in Alexis Murphy case
ARTICLE: Hannah Graham case prompts Randy Taylor's attorney to seek DNA test

More about Morgan Harrington

ARTICLE: Charlottesville Chief: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham'
ARTICLE: UVa, localities form safety committee in wake of Graham disappearance
ARTICLE: Matthew was questioned in sexual assault case at CNU
ARTICLE: Lawyer: Evidence sealed in Hannah Graham, Morgan Harrington cases





            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Blacksburg,
        Community
        
        on 
        
            Wednesday, October 1, 2014 8:28 pm. 
            
        


Hannah Graham,
                    


Morgan Harrington,
                    


Science




Similar Stories

Smithfield Plantation swings with Old Pros Orchestra at fundraising event
Photos: Kents visit Blacksburg for Virginia Tech homecoming parade
New University Crossroads plan would add hotels, retail near Virginia Tech
Photo: Leaves on the trees begin fall shift in Radford
Photo: Lia takes first trip to the Cascades





Most Read

Authorities exploring whether Hannah Graham case, Campbell Co. homicide linked
Man dead after gunfire involving police in Christiansburg
Drunken driver in fatal Franklin Road crash sentenced to 10 years in prison
Five thoughts the day after the Hokies' win at North Carolina
Bond hearing for Jesse Matthew Jr. canceled
















 




Advanced Search










Your browser does not support iframes.













tab 0
tab 1















tab 0
tab 1
tab 2
























Featured Videos














                
                  Featured Jobs
                
                      



Job searchby realmatch






                    Latest obituaries
                


CArson, MaryAnnMaryAnn (Posie) Carson, 87, of Roanoke, Va., passed away October 2, 2014. Funeral Service will be at noon on Monday, October 6, 2014, at Cave Spring United Methodist Church. Arrangements by Oakey's South Chapel, 540-989-3131Hendricks, William TillmanWilliam Tillman Hendricks died Saturday morning, October 4, 2014, after a long life of service to God, country, and family. At nineteen, he found the love and joy of his life, Virginia Ellen Harris. For all 69 years, his love for her never waned. Nor did his love for hissons, Bill, Bob, and Joe; or their families. As a father, he was strong and gentle, kind and generous. He warmly welcomed three daughters in law, Mary Lee, Victoria, and Heidi; five granddaughters, Margie, Joanna, Sarah, Ruth, and Mary; and ten great grandchildren, KK, Danny, Zachary, Liam, Andrea, Cristina, Linda, Daniel, Micha, and Alice. Family always brought out the sparkle in his eyes and the broad beam of his smile. At eighteen, he answered his country's call, joined the Air Force, and piloted B-17's in World War II.Thirty years of distinguished service in the Air Force culminated when, as a Colonel, he coordinated all Air Force support to the Army in Viet Nam.But his most important service was to God and church. As he was transferred from base to base, he quickly would find a Baptist church, even in Saigon and France, where he helped start one. His tithe to God always came first. His Bible and the rug where he prayed were worn with use. Many a church member in need answered the door to see Mr. Hendricks glowing with the spirit of God and offering just the right gift, word, or fix-it job. After building with his hands a three-story house, he, never one to stay retired, served as the business manager for Glorieta Baptist Conference Center.His worn Bible said, "If you love me, keep my commandments."He did. A memorial service in celebration of the life of Bill Hendricks will be held at 2 p.m. at the Blacksburg Baptist Church on Sunday, October 12, 2014. The family will receive friends immediately following the service at the church. In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to the Blacksburg Baptist Church, Land of Promise Fund, 550 North Main Street, Blacksburg, VA 24060. Arrangements by McCoy Funeral Home, Blacksburg.Alderman, Lonzie ClineLonzie Cline Alderman, 77, of Willis, passed away Saturday, October 4, 2014. Visitation will be 4 to 8 p.m. Monday, October 6, 2014, at Maberry Funeral Home Chapel.Marra, Mary KathrynMary Kathryn Marra passed away on Saturday, October 4, 2014, at Giles Community Hospital.She was born on June 4, 1924, in Wyatt, West Virginia, to Paul A. Marra and Lucretia Oliver Marra. After graduating West Virginia University in 1951 with a Master's of Science in Home Economics, Kathryn worked as a teacher and supervisor of the school cafeteria at the Westover Junior High School in Morgantown. Kathryn moved to Pearisburg in 1984 after her parents died. She worked as director of the Wee Care Academy for three years.After retiring, she traveled extensively and served the community. Kathryn volunteered for the Giles Memorial Hospital Auxiliary, the SHARE food program, Adult Day Care, and her church. She also supported many nieces and nephews through college. She was a devout Catholic and member of the Holy Family Catholic Church.She is preceded in death by her brother, Dr. John Marra, of Sacramento, California. She is survived by her sisters, Dr. Erma McGuire, of Pearisburg, Maria Womble, of DeLand, Florida, and Theresa Marra, of Cramichael, California. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Holy Family Catholic Church of Pearisburg or the charity of your choice.Givens Funeral Home, Pearisburg, is serving the family. Online condolences can be sent to the family at givensfuneralhome.com.




                
                  Featured Businesses
                
                      










					    
							Patrick Henry Ballroom
						















					    
							Roanoke Higher Education Center
						















					    
							Humble Pie Pizza
						















					    
							Pinkerton Chevrolet Inc
						




















BUY A PHOTO


[BROWSE PHOTOS]







                
                  Special Sections
                
                      











                            Smith Mountain Lake Charity Home Tour 2014
                        






Beautiful Setting, Beautiful Homes, Beautiful Cause











Laker Magazine Sept/Oct 2014






Laker Magazine September / October edition.





























© 2014 THE ROANOKE TIMES


roanoke.com




Services



Privacy Policy


Terms & Conditions


Site Map


Contact Us


Work for us


Smith Mountain Lake Visitor Guide


Mobile Site


Standard Site
















Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






            Need an account? Create one now.
        




























