Police chief says he won't rush Hannah Graham investigation; case keeps him awake nights | WJLA.com 
Police chief says he won't rush Hannah Graham investigation; case keeps him awake nights | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Police chief says he won't rush Hannah Graham investigation; case keeps him awake nights

By The Associated Press

			October 6, 2014 - 08:49 pm 
		







Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo addresses reporters at a briefing. (Photo: Associated Press)














Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



	CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) - Charlottesville's police chief said Monday that it's important not to rush the case against the man accused in the disappearance of a University of Virginia student, despite criticism of some of his decisions.
 
	Continue reading


More on this story


Is Graham kidnap suspect a 'gentle giant' or predator?

Former FBI profiler on Jesse Matthew, possible cold case ties: 'He has been active'

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know to date



	
About a week after Hannah Graham disappeared Sept. 13, Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. came to the police station to ask for a lawyer. Matthew's apartment had just been searched and while not a suspect at the time, he was considered a "person of interest."
	
He left the police without being charged and sped away, prompting police to issue an arrest warrant for reckless driving, authorities said.
	
While Matthew was a fugitive, Virginia police added a charge of abduction with intent to defile in Graham's disappearance, and he was arrested several days later on a Texas beach.
	
"We caught some criticism when Mr. Matthew walked out that door on that Saturday afternoon. People couldn't understand: 'How do you just let the guy walk out the door?'" Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said in an interview with the Associated Press. "We made a commitment to honor certain constitutional protections that people have in our criminal justice system, and as frustrating as it is, we want to be very careful to get it right, not to rush to judgment."
	
At a briefing earlier Monday, investigators asked people who knew Matthew, a former college football lineman and sometime cab driver, to come forward with information so that they can develop a better profile of him. As they did, about 35 people scoured an area of hundreds of square miles surrounding downtown.
	
Longo said in the interview that the goal of asking for more information about Matthew was to try to figure out areas he may have been familiar with as they assess where to focus their search.
	
"What are the places where he's most comfortable? ... If you were to take someone against their will, you're going to take them to someplace likely where you're comfortable. You're not going to go out in the dark and hope for the best," he said.
	
Police say forensic evidence also connects the 32-year-old Charlottesville man to the 2009 slaying of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student.
	
Longo declined to discuss the evidence against Matthew or whether he might be charged in the Harrington case.
	
Asked whether he expects to find Graham alive, Longo said: "Every day that passes is not a good sign. Every day that passes translates more to recovery than rescue. But at the end of the day, we still have to find Hannah Graham."
	
He said he thinks about the case constantly.
	
"I lay in bed at night going over, what have we done differently, what could we do differently?" he said. 



Read More:
Virginia, 
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
Missing Student, 
University Of Virginia








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Is Hannah Graham kidnap suspect Jesse Matthew a 'gentle giant' or predator?



Former FBI profiler on Jesse Matthew, possible cold case ties: 'He has been active'



U.Va. student Hannah Graham's disappearance: What we know to date












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



How to watch the Washington Nationals playoff games on TV









Ebola ruled out for 2 patients in isolation at D.C.-area hospitals; 1 has malaria
















Legal expert: Hannah Graham feared dead, Jesse Matthew's silence suggests involvement









Fire truck catches fire en-route to Silver Spring building fire









Enterovirus: How parents can tell if your child is sick









Anacostia art installation torn down after councilmember has it declared a fire hazard









Ashoka Mukpo, American journalist with Ebola, believes he knows how he got infected





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

