UPDATED: Charlottesville Police Release New Photos of Hannah Graham 
UPDATED: Charlottesville Police Release New Photos of Hannah Graham

























October 6, 2014



Community Counts
HealthLink
Apps







Search





 




















 



Home 
News  

News

News Headlines
Need to Know
Breaking News Alerts
News Video
Live Stream
Education
Meet the News Team
News Tip
Polls
Politics
State/Regional
Affordable Care Act


Weather  

Weather

Closings & Delays
Interactive Radar
Skyline Network
Severe Weather Alerts
Weather Authority Facebook
CBS19Weather Twitter
Meet the Weather Team
3-Degree Guarantee


Sports  

Sports

Sports Headlines
Friday Night EndZone
UVa Athletics
ACC
High School SportsZone
Meet the Sports Team
Student Athlete of the Week
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em


Features  

Features

Barefoot Excursions
Blue Ridge Outdoors
Dental Minute
Edible Blue Ridge
Inside Charlottesville
Jay James on Faith
Pet Project
Political Tuesday
Real Estate III TV
Stephanie's Heroes
Street Safe Teens
UVa Today
What's Going Around
Wine Wednesdays


HealthLINK 
Skyline Network  

Skyline Network

All Cameras
CHO Airport
Fork Union
Martha Jefferson
Old Trail Village
Westminster


Pump Patrol 
Life  

Life

Entertainment
Lottery
MomsEveryday
MyCapture
Pouring in Virginia
TXTL8R


Community  

Community

Community Calendar
VNB Community Counts
Martha Jefferson HealthWise
TXT L8R


Contests  

Contests

Auto Racing Challenge
Dralion Text 2 Win Contest
Fan of the Day
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em
TXT L8R Sweepstakes
Wildlife Photo Contest
3 Degree Guarantee


Station  

Station

Contact Us
Email Directory
Meet the Team
Creative Services
Advertise with Us
Closed Captioning
Program Guide
CBS Shows
Public File
Video Request Form
Waiver Information
Your Feedback


Connect  

Connect

Android App
iPhone / iPad Apps
E-News
Newsplex Facebook
Newsplex Twitter
Newsplex Text Alerts
Newsplex YouTube
RSS Feeds


Jobs  

Jobs

Newsplex Jobs
VA Job Connections
Job of the Day







 

















UPDATED: Charlottesville Police Release New Photos of Hannah Graham



Updated: Mon 8:50 PM, Sep 15, 2014















Home
 / Headlines List
 / Article 











 Watch Video
					



 View Gallery
					





























More Video...













																						Missing UVA Student (7p)
														










																						Police Investigating Report of Missing UVa. Student (6p)
														










																						Police Investigating Report of Missing UVa. Student (12p)
														



















Hannah Elizabeth Graham






Hannah Elizabeth Graham






Hannah Elizabeth Graham






Hannah Elizabeth Graham






Hannah Elizabeth Graham









Hannah Elizabeth Graham





































































Sept. 15, 2014 UPDATED: 7:36 PM
The Charlottesville Police Department is investigating the disappearance of a University of Virginia student, who was last seen over the weekend.
Police are actively investigating the disappearance of 18-year-old Hannah Elizabeth Graham.
She was reported missing on Sunday, September 14, at 4:34 p.m. Graham is a white female, approximately 5'11" tall with a skinny build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and has freckles. She was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs.
Graham was last seen Friday night/Saturday morning between midnight and 1 a.m. According to friends, she was last seen around the area of Camden Plaza Apartments in Charlottesville. Friends also believe she may have been down Main Street or on Wertland Street, past the UVa. Corner.
Students at the University of Virginia are still in shock that Graham went missing so close to grounds.
“I think it's real tragic when anything like this happens,” says Brannon Johnson, 4th year at the university. “It definitely questions everything in terms of safety and how everyone is going to react and move around grounds for sure.”
“It kind of hit home that something like this can really happen,” says Madison Baril, 1st year at the university. “Before it was kind of more like stories and warnings, but now it's a real person that's gone.”
Baril says she uses the “Buddy System” when going out and urges others to do the same.
“If you are with a group of girls, make sure you leave with a group of girls,” says Baril. “Find friends don't wander off with people you just met.”
Detectives have been working to find Graham since learning of her disappearance. A search using a bloodhound was conducted Sunday evening, but that search did not turn up anything useful.
They continued their search on Monday along 14th St. NW near Camden Plaza, where she was last seen. 
Officials say Virginia State Police has been in communication with the Charlottesville Police Depart. today concerning this case. At this time, there is no evidence to indicate this missing persons case is connected to any other ongoing investigations. 
Anyone with information regarding Hannah is asked to contact the Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.











Mother of Murdered UVa Student Speaks to Students About Relationship Violence 












The comments sections of Newsplex.com are designed for thoughtful, intelligent conversation and debate. We want to hear from our viewers, but we ask that you follow our rules for commenting. E-mail is required to comment on a story, but it will not be displayed with your comment. For complete rules, CLICK HERE. The Newsplex reserves the right to not post or to remove any comment.



Please enable JavaScript to view the powered by Disqus.
powered by Disqus



















































		Most Read Stories			



A Desperate Search for Answers in Hannah Graham Case
Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham
Local Entrepreneur Turns Passion into Profit
UPDATED: Supreme Court Rejects Appeals in Gay Marriage Cases
Historic Estate In Virginia To Be Sold At Auction
Mother of Murdered UVa Student Speaks to Students About Relationship Violence
Why Are People Leaving the Workforce?
Teachers Feeling Stress













Tweets from @CBS19/newsplex-accounts




Today's Events
Today's community events.
Monday October 6



Fall Revival
Sleepout for the Homeless
Colonnade Club Cornerstone Celebration
UVA Hosted: Baby Basics Moms Club

Click Here to Submit and View Events









































The Charlottesville Newsplex
999 2nd Street S.E.
Charlottesville, VA 22902
434.242.1919 – Main
434.220.7522 - Newsroom

 - Copyright © 2002-2014 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability   275123281 - newsplex.com/a?a=275123281 					





Website Policy
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy/YOUR CALIFORNIA PRIVACY RIGHTS
Advertising
EEO Statement
Public Inspection File






×
Online Public Information File


Click Here to access the online Public Inspection File
Viewers with disabilities can get assistance accessing this station's FCC Public Inspection File by contacting the station with the information listed below. Questions or concerns relating to the accessibility of the FCC's online public file system should be directed to the FCC at 888-225-5322, 888-835-5322 (TTY), or fccinfo@fcc.gov.

Public File Liaison:
Emily Hall - 434-242-1919 Ext. 137

Station Contact Info:
The Charlottesville Newsplex999 2nd Street S.E.Charlottesville, VA 22902434.242.1919 – Main434.220.7522 - Newsroom


Close























