Missing nursing student Holly Bobo’s remains found in Tennessee | fox4kc.com  
Missing nursing student Holly Bobo’s remains found in Tennessee | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Missing nursing student Holly Bobo’s remains found in Tennessee

Posted 9:37 am, September 9, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 
After three years of searching, the remains of Holly Bobo have been found in Tennessee.
The 20-year-old nursing student was last seen alive in 2011. Hundreds of volunteers turned out to search for her, and her case yielded more than $450,000 in reward money offered.
Bobo’s remains were found Sunday in Decatur County, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said Monday night.
CNN affiliate WREG reported that hunters had found a human skull.
District Attorney Matt Stowe said he is “ready, willing and able to seek the death penalty in this case.”
“We are going to make sure that everyone who played a part in the heinous crime that has attacked the peace and dignity of the great state of Tennessee faces a consequence for that,” Stowe said Monday night.
Two men have been charged in connection with Bobo’s death: Jason Wayne Autry and Zachary Adams. Both have pleaded not guilty.
Bobo’s brother has told authorities he saw a man in camouflage leading Bobo away from their home in the town of Darden in April 2011. Volunteers from at least five counties searched for the student, but to no avail.



Filed in: News Topics: Holly Bobo 











 






 810Varsity.com
Watch live high school games + scores, standings, stories!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Police: Remains discovered are those of missing Holly Bobo


News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Teen boys try to escape Tennessee detention center — again


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder



 


News

Remains found in Mexico identified as those of missing American


News

23-year-old murder case solved with help of LEGO bricks


News

Loss of Cady Harris is not the first time her mom has lived through death of a child


News

Officers cleared of any wrong doing in death of 5-year-old Cady Harris


News

Some believe her behavior is odd, but mom not (yet) a suspect in toddler’s hot car death



 


News

Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction


News

Police announce formal arrest in death of little girl in Leavenworth






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















