Remains found in Mexico identified as those of missing American | fox4kc.com  
Remains found in Mexico identified as those of missing American | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Remains found in Mexico identified as those of missing American

Posted 4:32 pm, July 18, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



(CNN) — Human remains found in two plastic bags near a beach in southwestern Mexico have been identified as those of Harry Devert, a New Yorker who left his job as a trader in finance for a transcontinental motorcycle journey from the United States to Latin America, Mexican authorities said.
Devert, 32, vanished six months ago after sending his girlfriend an ominous text message from a troubled region in Mexico, describing how he was being escorted from “an area too dangerous for me to be.”
Mexican authorities, acting on tips, last week located his green Kawasaki motorcycle in a shallow grave in the state of Guerrero, along with the badly decomposed remains of a man in two bags.
On Thursday, DNA tests confirmed the remains were those of Devert, a representative of the Guerrero state attorney general’s office not authorized to speak to the media told CNN.
The investigation was turned over to federal prosecutor because of the nature of the crime and the fact that it involved an American tourist, he said.
Mother has been looking for information
Devert’s mother, Ann, traveled to Mexico last weekend after identifying the VIN number on the motorcycle found in the shallow grave. A day earlier she provided a DNA sample to police in New York to match against the remains, said Darren Del Sardo, an attorney for Devert’s mother.
When told Thursday night of the identification of the remains by Mexican authorities, Del Sardo said Ann Devert had “no information with respect to that.” He said she was in Mexico City and hoped to review parts of the motorcycle and clothing found on the remains. He also said she was considering having a private lab conduct DNA tests.
The discovery of the remains and the motorcycle was made nearly 300 miles southwest of where Devert was last heard from in January.
Del Sardo said Ann Devert spent time in Mexico after her son’s disappearance, meeting local authorities and residents in the western Mexican state of Michoacan in an attempt to find him. There was hope with unconfirmed tips that he was being held at a ranch. Last week, she learned of the remains and the bike in the shallow grave.
Mexican authorities said the motorcycle was found along a road leading to La Majahua beach in Guerrero. The statement said “10 packages of what appeared to be narcotics (marijuana and cocaine)” were found near the motorbike and body.
Del Sardo said Ann Devert was told that the remains may have been moved to the shallow grave.
Devert, 32, had not been in touch with his mother or girlfriend in New York since January 25. That day he sent girlfriend Sarah Ashley Schiear an ominous text via the WhatsApp messenger app.
“Just got an hour and a half long escort out of some area it was too dangerous for me to be,” the message said. “Stopping for lunch and … voila Internet. … Gonna get back on the road soon. Apparently there’s another military escort waiting for me in some other town… I’m running way late because of the crazy military stuff…hopefully get a chance to talk to you tonight when I (hopefully) finally arrive.”
He had checked out of a bed and breakfast in Michoacan and planned to travel to a beach in Zihuatanejo, on the Pacific Ocean, that was in the final scene of the film “The Shawshank Redemption,” according to friends and family.
Friends had hoped Harry Devert would surface
Ann Devert last heard from her son January 23. The phone connection was poor. He told her he’d be out of cell phone and Internet range for a few days.
She told CNN earlier this year that he would call every January 29, his late father’s birthday, “and when he didn’t, I felt a misgiving but I thought maybe it would take a couple of days,” she said. “He didn’t call.”
Then, Ann Devert heard from a friend who recently returned from Michoacan, where vigilante self-defense groups in numerous communities have engaged in deadly confrontations with the Knights Templar drug cartel.
After vigilantes threatened to descend on a key cartel area last month, the Mexican government sent in thousands of troops and police to try to keep the peace. The government has even joined forces with the vigilantes as the Knights Templar become further entrenched in the agricultural state.
Ann Devert had been in touch with both the American and French embassies in Mexico. Her son, born in France, has dual citizenship.
Devert’s friends and family were hopeful that his disappearance was only temporary, another story to recount from his wild travels around the world — from Pamplona, Spain, to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and beyond.
“I’ve been chased with a gun in Colombia, chipped my tooth on a gun that was shoved in my mouth in Venezuela and shot everything from a bazooka to a machine gun, an M16 to a Colt .45,” Devert wrote in his travel blog, A New Yorker Travels. “I’ve been in some of the poorest and some of the most dangerous parts of the world and to many of the finest, and I still can’t tell which I liked more. I think that life is a pilgrimage.”
In an October 19 post, Devert described his latest journey on a type of vehicle he had no experience using.
“I’ve never ridden a motorcycle,” he wrote. “Mostly, naturally, because I don’t know how. So tomorrow I’m going to go to the DMV, get my motorcycle permit, buy a bike and hopefully figure out how to ride it home without crashing. Which I’m sure will be an adventure in itself.”
He added, “Then in the next 2 or 3 weeks I’m going to drive it across America, through Central America, down to Brazil for the World Cup, and eventually south to Ushuaia, which as far as I can tell from a map is about as far south as one can get on the continent.”
He purchased a green 2002 Kawasaki. Ann Devert said her son took a safety course and spent hours studying YouTube videos on how to survive falls from bikes.
But the fact that he had never driven a motorcycle concerned her, she said. He promised not to travel faster than 55 mph, yet he took a nasty spill while speeding in Florida, Ann Devert said. He emerged unscathed.
Friends and family created the Help Find Harry page in Facebook, with more than 25,000 likes.



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News Topics: CNN, cnnwire, harry devert 








			6 comments		




 

DC

We all know the Mexican government is not in charge.  Only answer is to stay out of Mexico.




							July 19, 2014 at 8:02 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Las Vegas Whirlpool Repair

I’ll immediately take hold of your rss feed as I can not to find your e-mail subscription link or e-newsletter
service. Do you have any? Kindly permit me recognise so that I may just subscribe.
Thanks.




							July 21, 2014 at 3:42 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

prix déménagement

This is very fascinating, You are a very professional blogger.
I have joined your feed and sit up for in the hunt for more of your
magnificent post. Also, I’ve shared your website in my social networks




							August 3, 2014 at 11:32 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

demenagement residentiel

It’s an remarkable article for all the internet users; they will get advantage from it I
am sure.




							August 3, 2014 at 4:07 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

comptoir granite ou quartz

Hello to all, how is the whole thing, I think every one is
getting more from this website, and your views are nice in favor of new viewers.




							September 17, 2014 at 2:23 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

jeux casino Sherbrooke

You are so interesting! I do not suppose I’ve read anything
like this before. So great to find somebody with some
original thoughts on this subject. Really.. many thanks for starting this up.
This website is something that is needed on the internet, someone with a little
originality!




							September 17, 2014 at 12:47 pm						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Parisi Artisan Coffee
Specialty Coffees- Order Online and Join the Coffee Club!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Missing nursing student Holly Bobo’s remains found in Tennessee


News

Mexico finds 2 abandoned lions, circus suspected


News

Police: Remains discovered are those of missing Holly Bobo


News

Navy pilot missing after jet collision is presumed dead


News

Police: 2 New Mexico boys confess to preschool pumpkin heist



 


News

South Carolina father held in deaths of five children


News

Texas girl Sabrina Allen, missing for 12 years, recovered with mother in Mexico


News

Bodies found in garage, storage unit after funeral director’s suicide


News

Afghan soldiers go missing in Massachusetts after mall trip


News

Father suspected of driving several days with children’s bodies in SUV



 


News

Police: Body found in Israeli forest is missing American hiker


News

4-year-old Florida boy found safe; police investigate bodies


News

127 victims identified from Ukraine plane disaster






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts















































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















