Police: Body found in Israeli forest is missing American hiker | fox4kc.com  
Police: Body found in Israeli forest is missing American hiker | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police: Body found in Israeli forest is missing American hiker

Posted 1:33 pm, August 28, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 The father of missing Yeshiva student Aaron Sofer, 23 of New Jersey, joined police and volunteers to search the Jerusalem Forest Wednesday, August 27, 2014. Aaron went missing while hiking Friday. 
(CNN) — A body found in a Jerusalem-area forest is that of missing American Aaron Sofer, Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said Thursday.
Forensics investigators were working to determine the cause of death, Rosenfeld said.
Sofer, 23, was reported missing Friday by a friend who was hiking with him. The young man was a Yeshiva student, studying in Israel.
Meir Lichtenstein, a Lakewood, New Jersey, committeeman who is a friend of Sofer’s family, told reporters that though the investigation was continuing, the family believes that death was accidental and no foul play was suspected.
“There is some closure to the fact that this may very well have been an accidental death as opposed to their son being abducted,” he said.
Lichtenstein said Sofer was “not the most experienced hiker” and may have suffered an “accident related to his walking in a rough terrain.”
“I say that with caution because the investigation is still ongoing,” he said.
Family joined search
On Monday, Sofer’s father, Moshe Zvi Sofer, joined police and hundreds of volunteers searching the forest outside Jerusalem where his son disappeared.
Moshe Zvi Sofer traveled to Israel with his wife from their home in Lakewood, New Jersey, and the couple offered a 100,000 shekel (about $28,000) reward for whoever found their son, Sofer’s father said in a video posted online.
Sofer’s friend lost contact with him as they walked together. The friend reported the disappearance to authorities, Rosenfeld said earlier this week.
“It is not clear if the disappearance was personal (or a) kidnapping,” Rosenfeld said. “It’s not clear at all.”
Lichtenstein said Sofer’s family “very strongly supports Aaron’s friend and believes that he had absolutely nothing to do with this and that it was an accident.”
Sofer will be buried in Israel, Lichtenstein said, and Shiva will be observed in New Jersey.
Sofer’s disappearance came two months after what Israeli authorities have called the revenge killing of Palestinian teen Mohammed Abu Khedair, 16.
His body was found in the Jerusalem Forest on July 2, just miles from where Sofer went missing.
Two minors and an adult were indicted in the killing. Prosecutors allege the killing was retaliation for the deaths of three Israeli teens whose bodies were found in the West Bank in June. One of those Israeli teens also had American citizenship.



Filed in: News Topics: Aaron Sofer 











 






Parisi Artisan Coffee
Specialty Coffees- Order Online and Join the Coffee Club!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

UK woman accused of harassing Madeleine McCann family found dead


News

KCK police investigate suspicious death of man found in possible stolen SUV


News

4-year-old Florida boy found safe; police investigate bodies


News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham


News

Family autopsy released in Michael Brown shooting; woman gives officer’s side of story



 


News

Man found in Troost Lake identified


News

Police: Remains discovered are those of missing Holly Bobo


News

Craigslist contact leads to two killings, suspect’s suicide, cops say


News

Family members question homicide of 23-year-old shot in KCMO


News

Remains found in Mexico identified as those of missing American



 


News

Investigation follows tweet claiming lack of evidence to prosecute in Ferguson


News

New York man dies after chokehold by police


News

Police find body of missing Lenexa woman






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















