Once missing teen Abigail Hernandez is home, but case is murky | fox4kc.com  
Once missing teen Abigail Hernandez is home, but case is murky | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Missing New Hampshire teen Abigail Hernandez is home, but case remains murky

Posted 11:14 pm, July 27, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 
(CNN) — A search for clues. A grainy sketch of a man’s face. A teen reunited with her family but struggling to eat.
New Hampshire teen Abigail Hernandez returned home last week, more than nine months after she went missing on the way home from school in a case that drew national attention and concerns by authorities that she may have been abducted. But the mystery of her disappearance has only deepened with the few details authorities and her family have revealed since her arrival.
Investigators said they still have many questions about the case. Last week they released a sketch of a man they said drove the teen away in a navy blue pickup truck on October 9.
“While the investigation remains ongoing, law enforcement authorities are still attempting to ascertain and confirm information as to whether this man or any others who may have been involved with Abigail’s disappearance took her against her will, enticed her away, detained her or concealed her whereabouts for the last nine months,” New Hampshire’s Office of the Attorney General said in a statement.
Authorities say Hernandez, who was 14 when she disappeared, “had no known means to facilitate her disappearance on her own or provide herself with food, shelter and other necessities over the past nine months.”
Investigators also released photographs last week of black pants, a gray striped sweater and a camouflage-colored National Guard bag, asking for information from anyone who “saw Abigail Hernandez or a female wearing the clothing and drawstring bag.”
In a statement Friday, her family provided few details about her disappearance, saying that they were cooperating with law enforcement and “trying to focus on the peace and joy of the moment of Abby’s return.”
“Right now, Abby is resting, extremely tired and in deteriorated health, and has lost a lot of weight. She is working to build her strength back and we hope soon she will be back on solid foods,” her family said. “We appreciate people’s vigilance as they share the sketch photo that law enforcement has distributed and we hope that very soon this long, long ordeal can come to some closure.”
In the statement, family friend Amanda Smith described Hernandez as “very thin and weak.”
“We continue to work towards getting her to eat,” she said, describing what she said was her friend’s “incredible courage.”
Investigators haven’t revealed what they think happened. They said they don’t have all the answers yet, but they plan to keep searching for them.
“We are all pleased Abigail was returned safely to her family. Law enforcement officers must now obtain satisfactory answers to the questions surrounding the facts and circumstances of Abigail’s disappearance and nine month absence,” New Hampshire Attorney General Joseph Foster said in a statement. “The individual or individuals who were involved with her disappearance and absence will now have to face the consequences of any unlawful actions.”



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News Topics: abigail hernandez 











 






Parisi Artisan Coffee
Specialty Coffees- Order Online and Join the Coffee Club!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Nathaniel Kibby arrested in the kidnapping of New Hampshire teen


News

New Hampshire teen missing 9 months found


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction


News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham


News

Police: Body found in Israeli forest is missing American hiker



 


News

Remains found in Mexico identified as those of missing American


News

Sudanese Christian woman who once faced death penalty arrives in U.S.


News

Missing nursing student Holly Bobo’s remains found in Tennessee


News

Police: Remains discovered are those of missing Holly Bobo


News

Some believe her behavior is odd, but mom not (yet) a suspect in toddler’s hot car death



 


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder


News

Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham


News

UK woman accused of harassing Madeleine McCann family found dead






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















