Afghan soldiers go missing in Massachusetts after mall trip | fox4kc.com  
Afghan soldiers go missing in Massachusetts after mall trip | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at 10 pm 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

64°







64°


Low 53°
High 75°





Wed


					48°  71°
					


Thu


					55°  61°
					


Fri


					49°  56°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Afghan soldiers go missing in Massachusetts after mall trip

Posted 10:00 am, September 22, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



(CNN) — Three Afghan National Army soldiers, who were in Massachusetts for training, have gone missing after a trip to a shopping mall, authorities said. It’s the second time in a week that Afghan security trainees in the United States have disappeared.
The three soldiers do not appear to pose any threat to the public, the Massachusetts National Guard said.
Earlier this month, two Afghan police officers training with the DEA wandered off during a sightseeing trip to Georgetown, CNN affiliate WJLA reported.
They decided they wanted to stay in the United States, but authorities found them and sent them home.
The three men currently missing in Massachusetts are Afghanistan National Army Soldiers Maj. Jan Mohammad Arash, Cpt. Mohammad Nasir Askarzada, and Cpt. Noorullah Aminyar.
They arrived in the United States on September 11 for Exercise Regional Cooperation, an annual event, the guard said, and were quartered at Joint Base Cape Cod.
The three were reported missing by base security late Saturday and were last seen at a Cape Cod mall in Hyannis.
“Base and exercise officials are working with local police and state authorities to locate the three Afghans,” the guard said.
Troops from six nations are participating in the exercise, which runs through Wednesday and will go on as scheduled, the guard said.
Roughly a dozen Afghan soldiers are still participating.



Filed in: News Topics: Missing Afghan soldiers 











 






Have a news tip?
Click here to tell FOX 4!







 

 


Popular



Viral video shows angry man confront panhandler in Oklahoma City



Royals fan loses his flag following sweep celebration, but Royals, Escobar come to the rescue



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



Officer gives young mom with limited income a car seat instead of a ticket



Dog survives being struck by car, heartworms and euthanasia attempt



In light of Ebola scare, area hospitals take necessary precautions



Residents of KCMO apartment complex say they live in filth and fear















News

Missing Afghan soldiers went to strip club before disappearing


News

Gaza cease-fire unravels; Israeli soldier possibly kidnapped


News

Soldier mauled by bear at base in Alaska


News

U.S. and Arab partners bomb ISIS in Syria


News

Israel launches ground operation into Gaza



 


News

Missing nursing student Holly Bobo’s remains found in Tennessee


News

FAA: Unresponsive plane crashes off the coast of Jamaica


News

Obama to defend airstrikes at U.N. as Syrians speak out about ISIS hits


News

President Obama authorizes ‘targeted airstrikes’ in Iraq


News

The slow, long fight against ISIS: airstrikes, failures on ground



 


News

U.S. Ebola patient: The travels and health travails of Thomas Duncan


News

Girl, 9, accidentally kills instructor with Uzi


News

Rescue efforts continue as China earthquake kills more than 380






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















