Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing | Q13 FOX News  

Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						
















Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing

Posted 7:33 PM, October 6, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 
(CNN) — Mexico’s federal troops are on the way to a southern town where 43 students went missing and where local police have been ordered to lay down their weapons.
Mexico’s federal Gendarmerie force will take over security in the southern municipality of Iguala along with the Mexican Army, the head of the country’s National Security council told reporters Monday.
Monte Alejandro Rubido Garcia, head of the commission, said President Enrique Peña Nieto had ordered the takeover, according to Mexico’s state-run Notimex news agency. Mexican Army and Federal Police forces are on the way to the municipality, where authorities are investigating the disappearance of 43 students after a night of violence last month.
Authorities have accused local police of involvement in shootouts the night of September 26, when gunmen opened fire on buses carrying dozens of students and soccer players.
Since then, 43 students from a rural teachers’ college have been missing.
Investigators found unmarked mass graves near the town over the weekend, and they say the graves could be connected to the case. State prosecutors say the remains of at least 28 people were in the graves, but the bodies were covered with gasoline and burned before they were buried, and it could take months to identify them.
 



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 GOTHAM
New Episode MON 8p
The good. The bad. The beginning. Watch Gotham on Q13 FOX.












Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68










Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















National & World News

Missing Afghan Army soldiers found by Canadian Border Services Agents


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)


Crime National & World News

Missouri governor: Highway patrol will direct security in Ferguson


National & World News

Afghan soldiers go missing in Massachusetts after mall trip


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student






National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student


National & World News

Should police get battlefield gear?  President orders review of military equipment sales


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


National & World News

$40 million lawsuit slams Ferguson police actions during recent protests






Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance


National & World News

Police scale back in Ferguson, but ‘there’s a lot of work to do’


Crime National & World News

Pennsylvania schools reopen as hunt for Eric Frein enters 11th day






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















