Detroit boy missing for nearly 2 weeks says he hid in basement out of fear  | Q13 FOX News  
Detroit boy missing for nearly 2 weeks says he hid in basement out of fear  | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







Detroit boy missing for nearly 2 weeks says he hid in basement out of fear

Posted 8:00 PM, July 10, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 08:13pm, July 10, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 





DETROIT (CNN) — A search for a 12-year-old missing Detroit boy went on for 11 days before he was mysteriously found in the basement of his own home. Now, the boy says he hid there to avoid punishment for failing to complete a severe workout routine.
The boy, Charlie Bothuell V, said in court document that twice each day he was forced to do 100 push-ups, 200 sit-ups and 100 jumping jacks. He told child welfare investigators in Michigan that he’d have to curl a 25-pound weight on each arm and do 5,000 revolutions on an exercise machine, and if he didn’t finish in less than an hour, he’d have to do the routine again, according a petition filed in Wayne County court in Michigan this week.
The Detroit boy said that he feared being “in trouble again” for not completing his work-out routine. Sometimes he couldn’t finish because he was in too much pain, he said.
Charlie made national news in June when his father Charlie Bothuell IV said his son went missing for 11 days, prompting a search that involved the FBI and that ended bizarrely when the child turned up barricaded in his father’s basement.
This week, Detroit Police Sgt. Michael Woody reiterated how surprised police were that the boy turned up in the basement. He told CNN, “It’s possible” that investigators “didn’t see” the boy while they searched the home from attic to basement.

The department is reviewing its procedures, he added.
A petition, signed Monday and filed in Wayne County juvenile court, describes allegations of abuse that the boy says he endured from his father and stepmother, Monique Arnel Dillard-Bothuell.
Neither have been charged; in fact, no one has been charged with anything in the case.
Blood found on PVC pipe
Wayne County child protective services opened an investigation of the family June 23 as FBI agents were looking into the boy’s disappearance.
Petitions seeking state custody of Charlie and his younger siblings were filed this week. They say that on June 23, the father “disclosed physically disciplining Charlie V with a PVC pipe. An FBI search of the home produced the PVC pipe with which Charlie V was disciplined. It was disclosed that blood was found on the pipe.”
On June 25, the documents say, the boy was found in the basement of the Bothuell home. He was taken to a hospital and a doctor examined him, finding a “half circular scar” on the 12-year-old’s chest.
The boy said that scar was a “result of his father driving a PVC pipe into his chest.” The child was “also observed to have old scars on his buttocks from being hit with the pipe,” the document states.
Boy says he heard authorities searching
Representatives from the state’s protective services agency witnessed two forensic interviews of the boy, according to the petitions, including an FBI interview on July 1. Charlie V made numerous allegations, saying that he was disciplined with a PVC pipe to the point that he was too sore to walk or sit and that he’d been punched by his stepmother who, he said, told him, “I can make you disappear.”
The boy said that the stepmother accused him of lying about whether he’d finished his workout, and put him in the basement on June 14.
The boy told interviewers that he showered and put on his pajamas for the evening before entering the kitchen where his stepmother was “very upset regarding the workout,” the petition states.
“Charlie V reported Mrs. Dillard-Bothuell’s voice was angry. Charlie V felt as if he did not have a choice, so he did as he was told,” it continues. “Charlie V followed Mrs. Dillard-Bothuell to the basement. She then led Charlie V to the back of the basement” and gestured to an area along a wall. The boy said that she told him, “There, back there, go!”
The petition states the boy said he climbed over a drum and that she added boxes to conceal him, and then went upstairs, called his father and said that the boy was missing, that she’d looked “everywhere” for him. Police said it was a 55-gallon drum, clarifying the petition’s description as a “5-gallon” drum.
When the stepmother came down to the basement, the petition says, she would approach the area where the boy was and say, “Shut up, stay quiet and don’t say anything no matter what you hear!”
“Charlie V reported Mrs. Dillard-Bothuell never brought him food, or anything to drink the entire time he was in the basement,” the petition states. When the house fell silent, he would run upstairs to grab food.
The boy told interviewers that he heard authorities come to the house while he was in the basement.
The Wayne County prosecutor’s office will decide whether criminal charges will be filed but had no public statement Thursday.
Police were not commenting on the boy’s whereabouts beyond telling CNN that he is living with a relative for the time being.
Another hearing is scheduled for July 17.
 



Filed in: National & World News, News 








			5 comments		




 

Ted

WTF is wrong with people?  This is his son,…Jesus Christ!!! 




							June 26, 2014 at 11:10 AM						

Reply






		Pingback: Protecting Christian homeschooling’s reputation vs. protecting abused kids, slam poetry for menstruation, children of Christian narcissists and books I’ve been reading | Elizabeth Esther 




 

Boris

Sorry to read another sad story. Do African Americans need some training on how to raise children?  




							July 10, 2014 at 11:04 PM						

Reply







 

Siree T

Yeah, because only African Americans abuse their children. Smh.




							July 27, 2014 at 7:21 PM						

Reply









 

Jack

Scam Fuck go away ! , Who gives a crap ..  




							July 10, 2014 at 11:06 PM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 HELL’S KITCHEN
New Episode WED 8p on Q13 FOX.







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















Crime National & World News News

Man admits making fake bomb threat but says he’s too overweight to face judge


Crime News

9-year-old boy is stabbed to death on playground


National & World News

Dad indicted on murder charges in son’s hot car death


National & World News

Whereabouts of officer at center of Ferguson teen shooting unknown


National & World News

From ‘sumo wrestler’ to distance runner: Why one man changed paths (PHOTOS)



 


National & World News

Judge:  Oscar Pistorius was negligent, but not guilty of murder


Crime National & World News

Body of missing Arkansas real estate agent found in shallow grave, 33 year old man arrested


National & World News

4-year-old Florida boy found safe; four bodies found near his home


National & World News

Missing British boy with brain tumor might be in Spain, police say


National & World News

Adrian Peterson: Not a child abuser, but sorry about ‘hurt I have brought’ to son



 


Crime National & World News

Cop killer chosen as college commencement speaker


News

WATCH: Rescued elephant cries after 50 years of captivity


National & World News News

Dozens of theme park employees caught in sex stings






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts











































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















