Man charged with kidnapping in mysterious 9-month disappearance of N.H. teenager   | Q13 FOX News  
Man charged with kidnapping in mysterious 9-month disappearance of N.H. teenager   | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						
















Man charged with kidnapping in mysterious 9-month disappearance of N.H. teenager

Posted 5:09 PM, July 28, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 05:22pm, July 28, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 Nathaniel E. Kibby was arrested Monday and charged with one count of felony kidnapping. (Photo via CNN) 
(CNN) — A 34-year-old man has been charged with kidnapping in the case of Abigail Hernandez, a New Hampshire teenager who went missing last October and then suddenly returned home last week — more than nine months later.
New Hampshire resident Nathaniel E. Kibby was arrested Monday and charged with one count of felony kidnapping for “knowingly confining Abigail Hernandez on October 9, 2013, in Conway, New Hampshire, with a purpose to commit an offense against her,” according to New Hampshire Attorney General Joseph A. Foster.
Kibby was arrested Monday at his home in Gorham, N.H., investigators said.
Hernandez’s case drew national attention when the then 14-year-old girl went missing last fall.  Her mother received a letter from her missing daughter, the contents of which were never revealed. And the mystery surrounding her disappearance only deepened when she suddenly returned home last week and authorities and her family revealed few details other than to say she was very thin and recovering.
“Over the course of the past week, law enforcement officers have worked around the clock to ascertain the facts and circumstances surrounding Abigail’s disappearance and return,” according to Foster’s statement.
Investigators said Hernandez provided police with details of her kidnapping that were “sufficient to warrant today’s arrest.”
Kibby’s arraignment is scheduled for Tuesday in Conway District Court.
In a statement released Monday, Hernandez, who is now 15, thanked those who searched for her while she was missing.
“My gratitude is beyond words. It’s an incredible feeling to be home and I believe in my heart that your hopes and prayers played a major role in my release,” Hernandez said.
Last week, investigators released a sketch of a man they said drove the teen away in a navy blue pickup truck on Oct. 9.
Investigators also released photographs last week of black pants, a gray striped sweater and a camouflage-colored National Guard bag, asking for information from anyone who “saw Abigail Hernandez or a female wearing the clothing and drawstring bag.”
Authorities said Abigail had no source of income and on the day she disappeared she did not have winter clothes with her.
Abigail Hernandez at 14 years of age, before her disappearance last year.
 
 



Filed in: National & World News 








			8 comments		




 

Bethany Sibilla

I pray for this little girl. Now she has dissociative disorder like me. God healher. No Little girl should no these horrors of life. But she has a fighting spirit. She will get over it




							July 28, 2014 at 6:16 PM						

Reply







 

Ilpalazzo

So she ran away from home to do reckless things and now the guy’s taking the fall for it




							July 29, 2014 at 12:47 AM						

Reply







 

Barbie

Abby LEFT on her own CAME back on her own!  Never got on her daily school bus.  Both parents emails were intercepted , acknowledging she ran away.  Why do you think the letter was not publicized.  Her mother is full of contradictions, saying Abby is thin, she is chubbier than before she left on her own.  Weak? Abby was running hugging friends.  The mother claims she cannot eat solid foods?  Abby would of been on a drip in the hospital.  Abby received hospital clearance as healthy.  Abby also mislead the FBI in the sketch.  Traumatized?  Abby was in court, with heavy sparkling eye shadow, heavy mascara & make-up, her hair done in highlights.  Far from a “victim” more of a manipulator that cost the state millions.  Note – the prosecution would not answer if they had known each other before she left.   Abby & her mother should be charged with Obstruction of Justice.




							July 29, 2014 at 3:04 PM						

Reply







 

l.

is it just me or is it strange that she was only gone for “just over 9 months” n mysteriously shows back up at home??? If I were the police, i would require her to be seen by a physician to be checked for child birth. If she was 14 n wound up pregnant with a 30 something year olds kid, that would be reason enough to “kidnap” her and get rid of the baby after birth to try and cover their tracks…..




							July 30, 2014 at 9:59 AM						

Reply







 

mai

I think you’re the smartest person here, L.




							September 10, 2014 at 1:14 PM						

Reply












		Pingback: WIS. Kidnapping: FBI Expert Testifies Against Woman Who Allegedly Left Infant In Tote In Sub-Zero Temps » Gossips 



		Pingback: Is mysterious 9-month disappearance of N.H. teenager solved with Man’s kidnapping charge? | Conservative-Warriors.com 



		Pingback: Is mysterious 9-month disappearance of N.H. teenager solved with Man’s kidnapping charge? | BuzzPo 



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 Q13 FOX NEWS AT 11
Tracking Tomorrow Tonight. 
It’s 30 minutes focused exclusively on how tonight’s developing news will impact you tomorrow. 
And how the weather you felt today will affect what you see outside in the morning.
Q13 FOX News at 11












Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68










Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


Crime National & World News

Man in bloody photo wanted in connection with mysterious Realtor disappearance taken into custody


Crime National & World News

Body of missing Arkansas real estate agent found in shallow grave, 33 year old man arrested


Crime News

Police: 60-year-old abducted Snohomish teenager, forced her to take pills


National & World News

Officials confirm remains are those of missing nursing student Holly Bobo






News

Alert store clerks rescue missing Snohomish girl; family friend says 60-year-old lured her with cookies


Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


Crime National & World News

Realtor mysteriously vanishes on the job; arrest warrant issued for man in bloody photograph


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance






National & World News

Indiana couple charged with holding woman in a dog cage for weeks


Crime National & World News

Suspect in Arkansas Realtor murder wanted to plead guilty because he wanted ‘this to be over with’


News

Officials:  Man forced kidnapped Snohomish teen to take pills, threatened to harm her






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts













































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















