Alert store clerks rescue missing Snohomish girl; family friend says 60-year-old lured her with cookies | Q13 FOX News  
Alert store clerks rescue missing Snohomish girl; family friend says 60-year-old lured her with cookies | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







Alert store clerks rescue missing Snohomish girl; family friend says 60-year-old lured her with cookies

Posted 4:36 PM, August 7, 2014, by Steve Kiggins, Updated at 05:37pm, August 7, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 
LYNNWOOD, Wash. — Two alert store clerks on Thursday spotted and helped bring home a missing 14-year-old Snohomish girl, who was found with a 60-year-old man.
The man was arrested on an unrelated, outstanding warrant.
The teenager was taken to Providence Hospital in Everett to be examined by doctors.
A family friend says the suspect met the girl, described as developmentally disabled, at a McDonald’s in Snohomish where he gave her cookies and soda and promised a free trip to Hawaii.
Q13 Fox News is no longer identifying the girl by name or showing her photo because her family believes she could have been sexually assaulted.



On Wednesday, the girl jumped on her bike to go visit a friend in Snohomish but she never made it. She was reported missing by her family Wednesday night.
“She’s just 14, that’s the third time she’s gotten to ride her bike without supervision,” said her adoptive mother, Roxanne Harwood.
Family and friends frantically searched for the girl.
Early Thursday morning, her family got the good news.
Police found the teenager 15 miles away at a Grocery Outlet store on 44th Avenue West in Lynnwood.
“All of the sudden it clicked, it was the girl on the news clip, on Facebook last night,” said store clerk Jason Thomas.
Surveillance video shows the child wandering the candy aisle of the store.
“The first thing she said, ‘I’m not missing. I like where I’m at, I’m with grandpa. Grandpa’s waiting for me outside,'” said Grocery Outlet owner Larry Brown.
Employees said the girl told them she stayed overnight in a hotel room with the 60-year-old man. They said he was arrested at a nearby McDonald’s.
Investigators have not yet identified the 60-year-old man.



Filed in: News 








			6 comments		




 

bretgarcia (@bretgarcia10)

hallo




							August 7, 2014 at 7:22 PM						

Reply







 

Modest Prude

the adoptive mom REALLY should not allow a mentally disabled child to go off bike riding or anything by herself!




							August 7, 2014 at 9:25 PM						

Reply







 

jack offerman

sarah palin is allowed to run off and ride her bike ? she’s a re/tard.




							August 8, 2014 at 12:32 AM						

Reply









 

ROGER

Hooray for the alert store clerks!!




							August 7, 2014 at 9:54 PM						

Reply







 

Mary Gillian Lomax

Great work, store clerks!




							August 7, 2014 at 11:04 PM						

Reply







 

aidanhadley

Not showing her photo because her family believes she could have been sexually assaulted?  She was all over the news already so what difference does it make now?  Is she supposed to feel shame because she was the possible victim of a sexual predator? You gotta love the hypocrisy of a media culture that bends over itself to sexualize children and then takes these kinds of puritanical steps when children become victims.




							August 8, 2014 at 1:11 PM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






CRAIG FERGUSON IS BACK!
Watch “Celebrity Name Game” weeknights beginning at 6p on Q13 FOX.







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















Crime News

Police: 60-year-old abducted Snohomish teenager, forced her to take pills


News

Missing 14-year-old girl found with 60-year-old man, taken to hospital


News

Officials:  Man forced kidnapped Snohomish teen to take pills, threatened to harm her


News

14-year-old Snohomish girl missing; sheriff asks for public’s help to find her


News

Boy sentenced to 9 years to life in prison for rape, savage assault on 8-year-old girl



 


News

Missing Washington teen found safe, sheriff’s office says


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student


News

Body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Everett woman found in car


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)


News

Kidnapped: Teekah Lewis would be 18 years old today; have you seen her?



 


National & World News

Man charged with kidnapping in mysterious 9-month disappearance of N.H. teenager


News

Bail set at $150,000 for Seattle cop accused of molesting young girl


Crime National & World News

Texas girl missing for 12 years is recovered with mother in Mexico






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts















































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















