Former FBI profiler: What agents will be looking for in Jenise Wright case  | Q13 FOX News  
Former FBI profiler: What agents will be looking for in Jenise Wright case  | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







Former FBI profiler: What agents will be looking for in Jenise Wright case

Posted 10:36 PM, August 6, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 10:37pm, August 6, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 
SEATTLE — A former FBI profiler who worked on the abduction and murder of 12-year-old Zina Linnik in Tacoma in 2007 says FBI agents trying to solve the disappearance of 6-year-old Jenise Wright of Bremerton have to play catch-up.
Her family didn’t report her missing for a full day after she disappeared from her home last Saturday because they thought she was out playing.
“Well, of course, the first 24 hours are the most critical in any investigation like this where a child goes missing,” said David Gomez, who also worked at the FBI training facility at Quantico, Va.



Gomez says agents are probably doing what’s called a bifurcated investigation.
“You would have separate teams of investigators, one working the active investigation and developing a rapport with the family and helping them to work through this tragedy, and a separate team that’s going to look at the things that are maybe less comfortable, like the background of any family members or any prior events that would be affecting this investigation.”
Agents may ask Jenise’s mom and dad to write down everything they did Saturday and Sunday so they are locked into a story. They could also conduct behavioral analysis interviews to see how they react to questions.
“Are they direct? Do they look away? Are they looking up? Are they struggling for words beyond what is caused by emotion? Does their emotion appear to be feigned or is it true to life?” asked Gomez.
The main thing is to quickly clear them or any family members so the investigation can focus on other possible suspects. Both parents have taken polygraph exams but no results will be released. Kitsap County deputies have stressed the family is cooperating with investigators.
“If my children went missing, I would hope that the police would focus on me and my wife until we are excluded as suspects,” said Gomez.
If you have any information on what happened to Jenise Wright, call 1-800-CALL-FBI.
 



Filed in: News 








			1 Comment		




 

Misty M

I think it’s someone inside the park that saw Jenise previously and knew she was left unsupervised. I’m no profiler, that’s just my opinion. 
I hope they find who killed that precious little girl before they can harm another child.




							August 9, 2014 at 2:53 PM						

Reply






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 RED BAND SOCIETY
New Episode WED 9p
See Steven Spielberg’s latest project. Watch Red Band Society on Q13 FOX.







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















News

SISTER OF MISSING 6-YEAR-OLD: ‘It’s heartbreaking … trying to hope for the best, pray for the best’


News

Body of missing 6-year-old Jenise Wright found: ‘This is going to be a criminal’ probe


Crime News

Parents of 6-year-old Jenise Wright say teen accused of killing her was family friend


News

Intensive search for missing girl: ‘Jenise Wright is one of ours … we want her back’


Crime News

Death of 6-year-old Jenise Wright ruled a homicide; DNA being collected



 


News

MISSING CHILD: Police looking for 6-year-old girl last seen Saturday night; other children removed from home


Crime News

Authorities arrest teen in death of 6-year-old Bremerton girl


News

STILL MISSING: Authorities hunt for new clues in 6-year-old’s disappearance


News

‘Jenise is gone, but we can and will find justice for her’


News

‘Jenise was a bright star in our lives:’ Memorial service held for slain 6-year-old girl



 


News

Jenise Wright’s parents still don’t know when they will regain custody of their kids


Crime National & World News

Texas girl missing for 12 years is recovered with mother in Mexico


News

Police: Innocent family’s car torched, another scratched with reference to Jenise Wright’s murder






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















