Body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Everett woman found in car  | Q13 FOX News  
Body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Everett woman found in car  | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

69°







69°


Low 58°
High 69°





Wed


					56°  67°
					


Thu


					55°  68°
					


Fri


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast




 







 PHOTO GALLERY: 12s head to Washington to watch Hawks on MNF						



 LIVE BLOG: Seahawks vs. Washington on Monday Night Football						








 







Body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Everett woman found in car

Posted 6:36 PM, August 12, 2014, by James Lynch, Updated at 06:47pm, August 12, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



 
EVERETT — A body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Ethel O’Neil of Everett was found inside her car in bushes off of 12th Street NE in Lake Stevens, police announced Tuesday.
At about 3:15 p.m. the Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office’s helicopter rescue team found the 1987 Chevy Nova belonging to O’Neil, who has been missing since July 16, police said.  The vehicle was located in bushes off the 13400 block of 12th St NE in Lake Stevens.
“The flight crew investigated and found the occupant inside the vehicle to be deceased,” Everett police and the Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office said in a joint news release.  “At this time, there is no identity of the occupant. The Snohomish County Medical Examiner’s Office will take custody of the body to make identification and notify family as well as establish cause and manner of death.”
The Everett Herald said police detectives don’t suspect foul play at this point.
FROM OUR EARLIER STORY ON ETHEL O’NEIL:
Even at 89, Ethel O’Neil is a fiercely independent woman.
She drove herself everywhere, but family members say it is not in her nature to go this long without talking to them.
“It’s been really bad because it’s that not knowing. You never think it’s going to happen to you and then when it does you really don’t know what to do,” O’Neil’s son Patrick O’Neil said.
She was driving her steel blue 1987 Chevy Nova with Washington license plate ADP – 6803.
She was last seen in Marysville asking for directions near the corner of 88th Place Northeast and 67th Avenue Northeast.
Earlier that same day she was caught on surveillance video picking up a prescription at the Everett Walgreens on Evergreen Way.
Family and friends have posted fliers all over the area but so far no one has come forward with information.
“We want her found and we think the way we do that is by finding that car,” O’Neil’s Daughter-N-Law Nancy O’Neil said.
With no leads on what might have happened to her, her family turned social media to spread the word about her disappearance.
“It was a great way of getting the flier out there, getting people to recognize her face to get her face out there, granddaughter Katy O’Neil said.
All the family can do now is wait and pray for her safe return.
“We’ve tried everything we can think of and its turned up nothing,” Patrick O’Neil said.
 



Filed in: News 








			3 comments		




 

Misty M

Unfortunately where I live in South FL this happens way to often. I really hate to say this, but a lot of the missing senior people that went missing while driving, are found in canals. It’s not only senior people, but teens & adults of all ages. I truly pray that is not the case here & she is found safe.




							August 11, 2014 at 10:18 AM						

Reply







 

Slam1263 (@IKnowBO)

“Daughter-N-Law”?
Seriously?




							August 12, 2014 at 9:51 PM						

Reply






		Pingback: Body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Everett, WA woman Ethel O’Neil found in car | Q13 FOX News | I Have Vanished 



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 Q13 FOX NEWS AT 11
Tracking Tomorrow Tonight. 
It’s 30 minutes focused exclusively on how tonight’s developing news will impact you tomorrow. 
And how the weather you felt today will affect what you see outside in the morning.
Q13 FOX News at 11







 




Popular



Baby dies after being left in hot car outside church by family friend while unsuspecting mom attends choir practice inside



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68







 


Latest News



Mexican troops head to site of mass graves, where 43 students went missing



Cop buys a car seat for child instead of ticketing mom: ‘I’d do it all over again,’ he says



Lightning strike kills 11 in Colombia



Hawks, 12s head to Washington for Monday Night Football (PHOTO GALLERY)















News

Search for missing Everett woman grows desperate


News

Sheriff’s deputy totals patrol car in early morning crash


News

Police: Man spotted texting and driving led police on high-speed chase


News

80-year-old man killed in small plane crash in Lake Stevens identified


News

Man beats 84-year-old Yelm woman, steals pickup, leads police on chase



 


News

Police: Street race may have caused deadly Tuesday morning crash


News

Missing 14-year-old girl found with 60-year-old man, taken to hospital


News

Body of 70-year-old man pulled from Martha Lake; apparent drowning


News

Suspected car thief who plunged vehicle into area water found drowned


News

Body of missing 6-year-old Jenise Wright found: ‘This is going to be a criminal’ probe



 


Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Suspected shoplifter fleeing police dies in head-on crash, 3 others seriously injured


Crime News

Missing 4-year-old girl found safe; mother in custody after allegedly running over 2 people






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts







































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















