Body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Everett, WA woman Ethel O’Neil found in car | Q13 FOX News | I Have Vanished 
Body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Everett, WA woman Ethel O’Neil found in car | Q13 FOX News | I Have Vanished



I Have Vanished
Dedicated to Locating Missing People



Search:








Home
Resources
Statistics
Glossary
Our Mission
Contact
 

Posts
Comments





missing

located

articles

events

technology

the lost

site

offers









← Madison, WI police find missing teen Flodejhia “Dee Dee” Burnett | News – Channel3000.com
Police searching for Ewing, NJ man Emmanuel Correa missing for more than a week | NJ.com →



Body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Everett, WA woman Ethel O’Neil found in car | Q13 FOX News


August 13, 2014
Leave a comment



EVERETT — A body suspected to be that of missing 89-year-old Ethel O’Neil of Everett was found inside her car in bushes off of 12th Street NE in Lake Stevens, police announced Tuesday.
At about 3:15 p.m. the Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office’s helicopter rescue team found the 1987 Chevy Nova belonging to O’Neil, who has been missing since July 16, police said.  The vehicle was located in bushes off the 13400 block of 12th St NE in Lake Stevens.
“The flight crew investigated and found the occupant inside the vehicle to be deceased,” Everett police and the Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office said in a joint news release.  “At this time, there is no identity of the occupant. The Snohomish County Medical Examiner’s Office will take custody of the body to make identification and notify family as well as establish cause and manner of death.”
[Click here for full story]


About these ads




Share this:TwitterFacebookGoogleEmailLike this:Like Loading...

Related





Filed under located
Tagged with chevy nova, deceased, dementia, ethel o'neil, everett, everett mall, reward, senior, snohomish county, update, wa 





Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 





 





  


  







Sign up for daily missing person alerts.
Top StoriesTX: 42-Year-Old Woman Almaz Gebremedhin Missing In Wylie « CBS Dallas / Fort Worth
NY - Police Search For Missing Brooklyn Teen Steven Lagos - NY1
NY - Annette Jablonski, missing woman in Steuben County | WBNG-TV: News, Sports and Weather Binghamton, New York | Local
FL - MISSING: Lori Lynn Lehman of Michigan may have been in Port Richey - Story | abcactionnews.com | Tampa Bay News, Weather, Sports, Things To Do | WFTS-TV
CT - Silver alerts on 2 teens: Missing Clinton teen Sam Foley allegedly joined by girlfriend Carolyn Lindsey, Trumbull girl, 16 - News - Shoreline Times
North Phoenix, AZ community still searching for missing girl Lydia Marie Stevens
MS - Jackson County deputies looking for missing 16-year-old girl Rebecca Anderson | Jackson County | The Sun Herald
 

















After 6 months, family of missing Duluth woman Dale Gerard can only wait















Pryor man Mike Bull missing since mid-December















Help find Sean Sidi - We need your help to find our son















Family pleads for help in case of missing man Brandon Louis





﻿










No success in search for missing Ocklawaha man John Radabaugh, Jr.















BOB HARROD - STILL MISSING















CPD Search Home of Missing Mom Shaniece Briggs















Family asking for public's help in locating Randy Chugg















Police, Family Continue Search For Robert Hoagland, Probate Hearing Set





﻿










Missing mom Moreira Monslave's friend: 'Something bad' happened





﻿










Warren police need your help to find missing man Timothy Six















Family ups reward to $20,000 in case of missing Jackson County man Joshua Adams















Tiffany Daniels Missing: Car Found Abandoned At Florida Beach















Robert Mayer's Wife Say's Missing Husband's Face 'Haunts Me'















DA reviews case of man who may have connection to Kelly Dwyer





﻿










Family waits for news of missing man Xavier Tarrand





﻿










Trenton then and now: Where is Melissa McGuinn 24 years later?





﻿










Search for Reny Jose continues















Police still searching for missing Zachary Porter





﻿










Reward offered in disappearance of missing Wall Street Journal reporter David Bird





﻿










Mother of Zoe Campos says calls need to be more specific















Yard dug up in search for missing Collingdale, Pa. woman Melissa Rodriguez





﻿










Missing in America: Derick Higgins















Jessica Heeringa investigation 6 months later: Fiance, police chief remain hopeful





﻿










Benton detectives keep cold case open for missing woman Sarah Mondragon















Search Continues for Matthew Greene Hiker Missing 2 Months















Search continues for Jessica Masker, missing since April 15





﻿










Public’s Help Wanted Locating Missing Person Cheryl Rogers





﻿










Brandon Lawson Missing for 28 Weeks No Help from Police or Media?















Disney worker missing: Search for Kristine Bruce enters second week





﻿










Family of Victoria Prokopovitz doubles reward for information





﻿










Family still struggles 10 years after disappearance of daughter April Beth Pitzer















Rochester police searching for local man George Vanderweit missing since July 5















Heather Szekeres: Why hasn't missing woman been found?





﻿










One year after her disappearance, search continues for missing Yucca Valley woman Carla Ruth Reyes















Family of Missing Oakland Toddler Daphne Webb Holds Vigil





﻿










Yahoo hires PI to find ‘brilliant’ programmer Luke Arduini who’s been missing since New Year’s Day






﻿










Justine Creech, Trenton, Ga., woman who disappeared June 4 still missing















Wife waits on call from missing Navy Chief husband Kevin Williams





﻿










Police seek info on Eric Franks missing since 2011





﻿










Search For Lynn Messer Passes One-Month Mark





﻿










Family of 11 'pedophiles' arrested in case of missing Alabama teen Brittney Wood, 19





﻿










Marine mom Chrisandra Williams vanishes before son’s graduation















Daylong search finds no trace of missing Vancouver hiker Maureen Kelly















Deborah Lee Crawford Missing After Friend Drops Her Off in Carterville















Search for missing teen Bryce Laspisa continues





﻿










6 Months Later: Stephanie Warner Still Missing















Brookelyn Farthing update: Case in danger of going cold















Isabel Mercedes Celis missing: Tucson police investigate potential tips in missing girl case















Family Renews Search For Missing New Castle Man Christopher Story





﻿










Foul play suspected in disappearance of Conway area teen Zachary Malinowski





﻿










Teresa Ann Barreras - Downey, Los Angeles County, California





Television

America's Most Wanted
America’s Most Wanted hosted by John Walsh.
APB with Tony Dunn
TNT has greenlit APB WITH TROY DUNN (working title), a new investigation series featuring Troy Dunn, the nation’s foremost expert in locating and reuniting long-lost persons.
Disappeared
A person suddenly and unexpectedly disappears; no trace, no clues, nothing but the lingering mystery they leave behind.
Find Our Missing
TV One’s Find Our Missing puts names and faces to missing people of color through dramatic and emotional storytelling.
House of Horrors: Kidnapped
Tells the gripping stories of people who were kidnapped and lived to tell.
Last Seen Alive
LAST SEEN ALIVE follows the journeys of 12 families in the hope of reuniting with their missing relatives.
The First 48: Missing Persons
The series name comes from the statistic that the odds of solving a case decrease by 50% if a solid lead is not found within the first 48 hours after the person has gone missing.
Unsolved Mysteries
Real mysteries and crimes are reenacted and detailed in order to generate tips for solving them.
Vanished With Beth Holloway
Examines unsolved cases as told by families who’ve been victimized.






Blog at WordPress.com.


The Enterprise Theme.    











Follow

Follow “I Have Vanished”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 757 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



%d bloggers like this:




 





