Vigil for Missing University of Virginia Student Hannah Graham - NBC News 
Vigil for Missing University of Virginia Student Hannah Graham - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
'Meatless Mondays' Now a Part of School Lunch Menus
Visually Impaired Learn How To Shoot
4-Year-Old Brings 200 Bags of Heroin to Daycare: Police 
Could Selling Off Prized South African Rhinos Save Them?







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search















        BREAKING: Watch Hong Kong Pro-Democracy Protests Live







Charlottesville Police Department via WVIR

                            18 days
                            



News
  
Charlottesville police released this picture of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. 
 


Vigil for Missing University of Virginia Student Hannah Graham





































More than a thousand people gathered at a vigil for a missing University of Virginia student, praying for her safe return and asking the question which has preoccupied many since the 18-year-old disappeared after an off-campus party early Saturday: “Where are you?”Classmates of Hannah Graham, 18, brought some reminders of the missing second-year-student’s hobbies to Thursday night’s candlelight vigil, like skis and an alto saxophone, which she plays. Organizers passed out her favorite sweets, Starburst candy. Friends wrote a letter which was read at the vigil, which appeared to draw around 2,000 people, in which they said “It's hard to fathom the confusion, fright, anger and sadness we've felt since you went missing ... You make things good, Hannah Graham. Where are you?”"We all just want to come be here for Hannah," said Eliza Costas, a second-year student. "We are keeping her family in our prayers and hope for the best."Graham vanished sometime early Saturday morning after she left an off-campus party, police said. Surveillance videos uncovered by investigators show the young woman interacting with someone outside a Charlottesville bar and later at a downtown mall, where a witness told police a man was seen putting his arm around the student. On Thursday police said they’re looking for that man as a “person of interest” in the case.Dean of Students Allen Groves said he remains hopeful. "Hannah we believe is still out there, and we want to bring her back and have everyone focused on this case." He said the university will continue to emphasize to students that they should always inform friends where they are going and what time they will arrive.Graham’s family has said they suspect foul play. On the University of Virginia campus Thursday, sophomore Meg Thornberry said women at the university are warned against walking alone at night by themselves. But, she added, “I don't think most people are worried about their own safety, but about Hannah's.”
















IN-DEPTHPolice Seek Person of Interest in Hannah Graham DisappearanceHannah Graham Disappearance Rattles University of Virginia StudentsSearch for Hannah Elizabeth Graham Will Be 'Aggressive'SOCIAL— Tracy Jarrett
First published September 18 2014, 8:03 PM



 

 

 

 











About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

