 Hannah Graham: Suspect in Case of Missing Coed in Custody  | KTLA  
 Hannah Graham: Suspect in Case of Missing Coed in Custody  | KTLA






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






KTLA

 Menu

News
Morning News
Contests
Traffic
Social
Events
About




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 66°
High 87°





Wed


					65°  85°
					


Thu


					65°  82°
					


Fri


					63°  82°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Hannah Graham: Suspect in Case of Missing Coed in Custody

Posted 9:27 PM, September 24, 2014, by CNN Wire 

Share this:FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 



 A file photo of Jesse Matthew. (Credit: 	C-VILLE Weekly) 
The only known suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham was in custody Wednesday night.
Jesse Matthew, who had been sought on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile, was arrested in Galveston County, Texas. He was found on the beach in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, according to that county’s sheriff’s office.
“We have a person in custody, but there’s a long road ahead of us, and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters.
He declined to go into the circumstances of Matthew being taken into custody. It was not immediately clear whether he had surrendered.
Police in Virginia are looking for missing college student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. The University of Virginia student was last heard from on September 13, 2014. (Credit: Charlottesville Police)
An extradition process is under way for the 32-year-old Matthew, who is also wanted on suspicion of two counts of reckless driving, Longo said.
Earlier, Matthew’s lawyer was mum about most everything.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” said James Camblos, who spoke outside his office in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not,” he said.
His comments came one day after authorities obtained an arrest warrant for his client, who police believe was the last person with Graham.
She was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Investigators have been looking for her since, and in an increasingly large area.
“We’re asking for a broader community search with property owners,” Longo told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360,” in an interview to air Wednesday night.
Specifically, he said he wants property owners of large parcels in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities have previously searched Matthew’s apartment and car. Although they have declined to discuss the specifics of what might have been found, potential evidence was sent to a lab for analysis.
According to Longo, Matthew willingly went to a police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest.
He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, Longo said.
Camblos confirmed that he was the attorney who met with Matthew at the police station.
“I’m not telling you anything else at this point,” he said.
Authorities are now offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
They have received 1,500 tips so far in the case, and are urging anyone with information to call the police tip line at 434-295-3851.
“We’re asking every person within the sound of my voice to help us find Hannah Graham,” Longo, the police chief, said.



Filed in: Nation/World 











 






Watch KTLA 5 News
Every newscast plus replays streamed online







 

 


Popular



CHP Asks for Help From Witnesses Who Saw Irvine Crash That Killed 5 Teens



Memorials Held for 5 Teens Killed in Fiery Crash on Way Back From Knott’s Scary Farm



Fan Critically Injured After Being Beaten in Angel Stadium Parking Lot Following Playoff Game



Teen Driver in Fiery I-5 Crash in Irvine Didn’t Have a License;  5 Others Killed







 


Latest News



Lunar Eclipse …



OC Register Facing Flood of Complaints After Switching Delivery Services



Michael Phelps Suspended by USA Swimming for 6 Months



Tutor Sought in Alleged Computer Cheating Scandal at O.C. High School Arrested At LAX



















 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
KTLA 5 News on Social Media
Watch CW Shows




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5800 Sunset Blvd. Los Angeles, CA, 90028  •
		Copyright © 2014, KTLA		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















