Witness saw man put arms around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Witness saw man put arms around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 11:01 pm, September 17, 2014, by Alix Bryan and Melissa Hipolit, Updated at 11:22am, September 18, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Charlottesville Police continue to examine new surveillance video in the case of  missing 18-year-old  Hannah Graham.
[Scroll down to view new videos]
Police have been searching for the second year University of Virginia student since Sunday, but she was last seen by friends Friday night, and last heard from around 1:20 a.m. Saturday when she sent a text, police said. Now the most recent video shows her last seen at 1:08 a.m., and they continue to search for more footage.
At a Wednesday press conference Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said they had received over 100 tips, interviewed over 50 people and had new video to examine.
Detectives visited businesses on the Downtown Mall, a pedestrian area located just over a mile away from the UVa. campus, to see if anyone had surveillance video that might show Graham’s path the night she disappeared.
Wednesday evening Capt. Gary Pleasants told CBS 6 reporter Melissa Hipolit that they examined two new videos, which showed an unidentified white male following Graham.
The first video was taken at 1:06 a.m.  from Sal’s Pizza, located at 221 E. Main St. It shows a white male walking into the cameras view, he looks over his shoulder, then steps into a doorway and Graham walks past him, police said.

After she passes, the male starts walking behind her. The second video picks up at 1:08 a.m., from a camera at Tuel’s Jewelers located at 319 E. Main St. The video shows Graham walking with the same white male some distance behind her, Pleasants said.

Pleasants then said that the man in the video came to the police station, and said he had also left his story on the tip line.


Breaking: CVille police interviewed man in new video. Says he was trying to help #HannahGraham @CBS6
— Melissa J. Hipolit (@MelissaCBS6) September 18, 2014

He told police that he was walking with her to make sure she was okay, because she seemed physically distressed and he “wanted to make sure she got safely wherever she was going.”
The man told police that he saw a black man approach Hannah, and that man put his arm around her. The unidentified man told police she didn’t react, and seemed to know him. Once those two started speaking, he said it appeared the black male was “was either known to Ms. Graham or was trying to help her.”
So he went on his way, he told police. He said the two were standing there talking when he left.

The pieces continue to connect, and a timeline take shape, as more witnesses come forward and video is shared.
The updated timeline of the last hours anyone heard from Graham looks like this:

11: 50 p.m. Friday — Graham last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in the 200 block of 14th Street NW.
12:45 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street.
12:55 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on Shell station surveillance video on Preston Ave.
1 a.m. Saturday — Witness reports seeing Graham on Downtown Mall
1:06 a.m. Saturday — Video captures Graham in front of Sal’s, continuing to walk east along the mall.
1:08 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen in front of Tuel Jewelers.
1:20 a.m. Saturday — Graham sends a text to friends saying she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets.

Police described Graham as a 5’11” white female with a skinny build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. She was last seen wearing a dark/silver/black crop top with mesh cut outs.
Her parents say they’re worried something happened to her after she left a gathering with friends Friday night in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“Hannah is beyond precious to us,” John and Susan Graham said in a statement released by police Wednesday. “We are truly devastated by her disappearance. It’s totally out of character for us not to have heard from her, and we fear foul play.”
“We are so very grateful for everyone involved in the search for Hannah. Like you, we will not rest until we find her and she come home.”
Anyone with information about Graham was asked to call the tip line with the Charlottesville Police Department at 434-295-3851 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.
This is a developing story. Below are videos from the Wednesday press conference.Part one is on top, part two below it. 









Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






 Antenna TV
Check out classic TV shows and movies on 6.2. Comcast 207|Verizon 479  







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham


News

WATCH LIVE: Press conference on missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days



 


News

Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















