Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared  | WTVR.com  
Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared  | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared

Posted 8:16 pm, September 19, 2014, by Alix Bryan 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — University of Virginia police said they’re investigating two possible sexual assaults that took place the same weekend that second year student Hannah Graham disappeared.
One of those possible assaults involves another female UVa. student.
University of Virginia Police Chief Michael Gibson says that a student reported she was sexually assaulted near Wertland street early last Sunday morning, Sept. 14.
Gibson said the second incident occurred early Monday morning, not far away, in the 200 block of 15th Street NW.
In that case, the chief says the female victim was a Charlottesville resident.
“Let me make something clear, and I do so respectfully, and we can have this conversation at another press conference — this conversation is about Hannah Graham,” Chief Tim Longo said at a Friday press conference.

When pressed by a reporter if the incidents were related, Longo replied, “don’t have any reason to believe that.”
“The issue, and I’ll say this, and then I would like stay on point is: the university and I will continually work towards — and I really think we’ve done a better job of it over the years — but we will always work towards communication,” Longo said.  “So we not only fulfill our obligation to the community to make sure that things are properly disseminated, and not just to a 6’oclock in the morning media group, but to also make sure that the university fulfills its legal obligation under the Clary Act.”

Graham was reported missing on Sept. 14, and was last seen and heard from by friends early Saturday morning.
A week after the night she was last seen, her parents said “we continue to be optimistic that Hannah will soon be returned safely to us. We repeat our previous appeal to contact the Charlottesville Police Department if you have any information that could help the Department’s inquiry.”
They ended by appealing to students: “For those students planning to unwind this weekend, please be extra vigilant when you are out and walk with a buddy.”
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.
Searches will continue throughout the weekend, with volunteer help requested.
All surveillance videos can be seen here.
All reports filed on this case can be found here.
[viral zone=”big-story”
 



Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Police: Man with dreads went into bar with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington



 


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know


News

Sexual assault filed against Jesse Matthew at Christopher Newport University in 2003


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















