Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham

Posted 10:17 pm, September 15, 2014, by Alix Bryan and Melissa Hipolit, Updated at 05:37am, September 16, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 


CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. – Police released new surveillance pictures of Hannah Elizabeth Graham, as the search continued Monday night for the teen, who they believe went missing on her way home from a party.
The second year University of Virginia student was last heard from on September 13 when she sent a text to friends at about 1:20 a.m. Saturday.
Police said Graham left alone from the party at 14th and Wertland Streets, in an area not from her house which she knew pretty well. Around 45 minutes later police said Hannah texted friends with the message that she was lost in the same area.
Police said she was “fairly well intoxicated.”



“On Sunday, her friends and family realized that none of them had seen or had contact with her since Friday night and a call was placed to the Emergency Communications Center by her friends, reporting her missing,” said Charlottesville Police Captain Gary Pleasants.

Sophia Lamrissi-Garcia spent last Friday night partying not far from her friend Hannah, at one of her sorority events.
She thought about walking home alone but she opted not to, she said. “Don’t know why, but I decided to take a cab.”
Police said Graham decided to find her way home, alone.
These pictures released by police are of Graham in her apartment building, around 9:30 p.m., the Friday she went missing. At the request of her family the address is not being released.
 
Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (8 images)










 



“At that point in the night you think you’re doing the right thing walking alone but it’s not always the right decision to make,” Sophia said.
The police presence and search team have startled students, some who say they are having a difficult time coming to grips with Graham’s disappearance.
“I saw her on Thursday…she seemed really happy,” said neighbor Sam Blum, who is also on the ski team with Graham.“…Downtown Charlottesville, I wouldn’t expect that.”
The Charlottesville Police department, Albemarle County Police department and Virginia State Police are all searching for Graham.
Police described the 18-year-old Northern Virginia native as a 5’11” white female with a  skinny build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. Graham was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs.
Anyone with information about Graham was asked to call Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.


Same-sex couple exchanges marriage vows in ceremony outside Richmond court


Teen now charged with first-degree murder in death of ‘tiny hero’ Marty Cobb


Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed


As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






 Antenna TV
Check out classic TV shows and movies on 6.2. Comcast 207|Verizon 479  







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’



 


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police announce new clues in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail



 


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















