New clues in search for Hannah Graham at University of Virginia | WTVR.com  
New clues in search for Hannah Graham at University of Virginia | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Police announce new clues in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 2:35 pm, September 16, 2014, by Scott Wise, Shelby Brown and Melissa Hipolit, Updated at 01:31am, September 17, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, 18, was last seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street at about 12:45 a.m. Saturday, Charlottesville Police Capt. Gary Pleasants revealed Tuesday.
Police have not yet released photos or video of Graham outside the pub.


UPDATE: Police say #HannahGraham was seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady's Pub at 12:45 a.m.  Crews searching that area.  @CBS6
— Melissa J. Hipolit (@MelissaCBS6) September 16, 2014

The pub is about a 14-minute walk from the spot were Graham sent a text to friends to tell them she was lost, according to CBS 6 reporter Melissa Hipolit. That text was sent at about 1:20 a.m. Saturday. That was the last time anyone heard from the second-year student from Northern Virginia. Police said Graham was “fairly well intoxicated” at the time she was last seen.
The timeline for the last moments which Hannah was spotted are as follows:
11: 50 p.m. Friday she was last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in the 200 block of 14th Street NW.
12:45 a.m. Saturday she was seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street.
1:20 a.m. she sends a text to friends saying she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets.
Although, now police believe that final text was not sent from the place where she said she was. 

“Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends. She is highly responsible and organized,” her family said in a statement released through the University Tuesday.
“We express our sincere gratitude to law enforcement and everyone who is involved in the search for Hannah. We also thank the University for the full attention they are devoting to the situation. The kindness and support of so many – her friends at U.Va., particularly her friends on the Ski Team, her friends from high school, our neighbors, and the larger community – mean so much to us at this difficult time.”

The search for Graham continued Tuesday as police and volunteers searched around Preston Avenue in Albemarle County. A tip to police indicated Graham may have been seen in that area.


Searchers say #hannahgraham may have been seen in Preston Ave area. That's why crews scour area. pic.twitter.com/JG1cZOV4Yo
— Shelby Brown (@ShelbyBrownCBS6) September 16, 2014

“It’s hard to be here, to see the young faces. We want to find her,” a search volunteer told CBS 6 reporter Shelby Brown.


Vol. searcher "It's hard to be here to see the young faces. #We want to find her" #hannahgraham pic.twitter.com/mKCFjlT2Zt
— Shelby Brown (@ShelbyBrownCBS6) September 16, 2014

Police described Graham as a 5’11” white female with a  skinny build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. Graham was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs.


Police release new pictures of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham http://t.co/wY0zmlQJJR pic.twitter.com/1qzMFnYANS
— CBS 6 WTVR Richmond (@CBS6) September 16, 2014

Anyone with information about Graham was asked to call Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.


Same-sex couple exchanges marriage vows in ceremony outside Richmond court


Teen now charged with first-degree murder in death of ‘tiny hero’ Marty Cobb


Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed


As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’




Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, University of Virginia 











 






Heroes Among Us
Who is the hero in your life? Click here to nominate them so Greg McQuade and CBS 6 News can share their story.







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

Police now think UVa. student Hannah Graham’s last text was incorrect


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham


News

WATCH LIVE: Press conference on missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know


News

Morgan Harrington’s mom says ‘possibility of good outcome’ exists for Hannah Graham



 


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















