All surveillance video of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham | WTVR.com  
All surveillance video of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham

Posted 6:37 pm, September 18, 2014, by Alix Bryan, Updated at 07:32pm, September 18, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 


This picture was taken of Hannah Graham the night she disappeared. It was taken around 9 p.m. Friday, Sept. 12, at her apartment.
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Police have been searching for second-year University of Virginia student Hannah Graham since she was reported missing on Sunday, Sept. 14.
She was last seen shortly after 1 a.m. Saturday, Sept. 13 and she sent a text to friends at 1:20 a.m. that she was lost in an area that she would be familiar with, not far from her own housing. Additionally, as surveillance video indicates, Graham would not physically be able to be in the location where she texted she was lost, because it is 1.5 miles away.
On Thursday, a person of interest was named and a reward offered.
Police initially described the man as a black male in his late 20s to early 30s, about 5’10” or 5’11” tall and weighing between 250-285 pounds. The man was wearing black jeans and a white t-shirt and was described as having a closely shaved head as well as a goatee and a slight “beer belly.”
Police later described a person of interest as Jesse Matthew Jr. This person can be seen in the two of the videos below.  At Friday’s press conference the person of interest was described as a black, dread locked male, 6’2″ and 32 years of age, weighing around 270 pounds.
The reward is for $50,000. If you have information that could help police, call 434-295-3851.
All stories about the missing student are filed under this tag. 
Below is the timeline of events, and corresponding videos are below that. A photo gallery shows pictures of Hannah, below the videos.


11:50 p.m. Friday — Graham last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in the 200 block of 14th Street NW.
12:45 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street.
12:55 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on Shell station surveillance video on Preston Ave.
1 a.m. Saturday — Witness reports seeing Graham on Downtown Mall
1:06 a.m. Saturday — Video captures Graham in front of Sal’s, continuing to walk east along the mall.
1:08 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen in front of Tuel Jewelers.
1:20 a.m. Saturday — Graham sends a text to friends saying she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets.






Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (6 images)








 




One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police announce new clues in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police search for ‘person of interest’ in UVa. student Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

WATCH LIVE: Press conference on missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’



 


News

One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















