Dreadlocked man went into bar with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Dreadlocked man went into bar with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Police: Man with dreads went into bar with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 6:05 pm, September 19, 2014, by Alix Bryan, Updated at 01:09pm, September 20, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo gave an impassioned speech about missing second-year student Hannah Graham at Friday’s press conference.
“If you live in the city of Charlottesville, if you attend the University of Virginia, if that lady has touched your life in any way, you have the responsibility to help us find her,” he said.
The chief said the press conference was a way to explain how they got to this place in the investigation, which has been ongoing since Sunday, Sept. 14, when friends and family realized no one had seen or heard from Hannah since early Saturday morning, Sept. 13.
A search warrant was executed Friday morning, for a vehicle belonging to a person in the 100 block of Hessian Hill Way. There was then sufficient evidence to execute a search warrant of the home.
“I am not at liberty to disclose any items that we may have taken from that car, any items that we may have taken from that residence,” Longo said. Those items are still being evaluated, he added.
“We have reason to believe she inside a bar on the mall, with an individual who lived on Hessian Hill Way,” Longo said.
He referenced video from Sal’s Restaurant, that shows a dreadlocked man originally walking west bound on the mall. The video shows the dreadlocked man cross the mall, and start walking behind Hannah, eastbound.



The next video, taken from Tuel Jewelers at 1:08 a.m., shows the dreadlocked man walk with Hannah and his arm is around her waist, confirmed Chief Longo.

Longo said at the press conference that “from witness accounts they entered Tempo Restaurant on 5th street,” off of the mall. The man purchased alcohol, police said.



Police stop short of calling him “suspect” or “person of interest”
“People saw Hannah and people saw him, and people saw them together,” Longo said. “And it’s entirely possible that Hannah Graham may have gotten into his vehicle,” he said, “the vehicle we searched today.”
Within 15 minutes they were gone from bar, Longo said, and he is pretty sure they left in the dreadlocked man’s car.
The car was described as a 1998 burnt orange Chrysler Coupe, that was parked somewhere along 4th Street or somewhere along the mall.



“Somebody got out of it, somebody got back into it, and someone got back in it,” he said. “If you remember seeing  someone get back in it, and you remember seeing it drive away, we need to hear from you.”

Longo did not call the dreadlocked man a suspect, and stopped short of calling him a person of interest. He said “we are interested in him.”
There is no probable cause for his arrest right now, Longo said. There was a “legally insufficient legal basis to detain him –not in the opinion of the Commonwealth Attorney — so he is not in custody.”
“But we know who he is,’ Longo said. “I’ve described his car.”
“There will come a time when I release his name,” he said.
But right now, this man is not charged.
“Our goal is to make an arrest that will lead to a conviction,” Chief Longo said.
“Today was productive, from an investigative standpoint,” he said.  “It advanced the investigation.”
“It has not got us to the point we need to be at, no.”



Police call for more video, and volunteers join search
Police said they have received more than 400 tips since Sunday.
Longo again pleaded with all business owners and homeowners who have surveillance video to contact them, regardless if they think it is important.
The person police are interested in right now was described at Friday’s press conference as a black, dreadlocked male, 6’2″ and 32 years of age, weighing around 270 pounds.
The suspect described by police before, likely given by the male also seen in the Sal’s Restaurant video — who contacted police to say he saw Hannah — was different. That man was described as a black male in his late 20s to early 30s, about 5’10” to 5’11”  tall and weighing between 250-285 pounds.
That original suspect was described as  wearing black jeans and a white t-shirt and having a closely shaved head as well as a goatee and a slight “beer belly.”
“They want their daughter back, they want to know what happened to their little girl, that’s all, and that’s what I want and that’s what you want,” Longo said.
He said over 1,500 people have signed up to search on Saturday, and possibly Sunday.
A $50,000 reward is now being offered in hopes of soliciting tips that could lead police to Graham. The City of Charlottesville and the University of Virginia are each offering $10,000. In addition, some local residents and businesses have contributed $30,000 to the reward.
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.
All surveillance videos can be seen here.
All reports filed on this case can be found here.





One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






 Antenna TV
Check out classic TV shows and movies on 6.2. Comcast 207|Verizon 479  







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

WATCH LIVE: Press conference on missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared



 


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police search Charlottesville apartment for clues into disappearance of UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink



 


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police made ‘tactical decisions’ handling missing UVa. student Hannah Graham case


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















