Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: CBS 6 News at 11 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

62°







62°


Low 56°
High 81°





Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					53°  77°
					


Fri


					59°  81°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 7:05 pm, September 23, 2014, by Scott Wise, Alix Bryan and Melissa Hipolit, Updated at 06:51am, September 24, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Charlottesville Police announced that Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr.  is now wanted for abduction with intent to defile Hannah Elizabeth Graham, along with two counts of reckless driving.
Graham, an 18-year-old University of Virginia student, was reported missing on Sunday, Sept. 14, but no one has seen her since early Saturday, Sept. 13.
“We reached that point that the Commonwealth felt we had probable cause to seek an arrest warrant,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said at Tuesday’s 7 p.m. press conference.  With this charge, Matthew becomes a suspect, charged with a Class 2 felony for abduction with intent to defile.

Police conducted a second search of Matthew’s Albemarle County apartment  in Hessian Hills on Monday. Longo said the specific clothing they were looking for was removed from the apartment and “sent to a lab for analysis.”  Additionally three bags of evidence were removed.
The chief said Tuesday that police are still waiting on certain information and did not detail the results of any forensic testing on evidence taken from Matthew’s car or apartment, as was originally expected, other than to say they had enough evidence to issue a warrant.
“Once we have that information, we will be very forthright,” Longo said. “You know we have been working very hard over the past almost nine days, in relation to this case.”



CBS 6 Legal Analyst Todd Stone said that it only takes probable cause to charge for abduction, but that there must be some evidence suggesting sexual nature because of the “intent to defile.”
On Sunday police had issued an arrest warrant against Matthews on two counts of reckless driving. After he walked into the police station on Saturday to meet with a lawyer, police said Matthews got into a car and drove away from the station with another person. While investigators followed the vehicle, they said the car drove off at a dangerous speed.

“State and federal authorities who were overtly monitoring his movement saw him get into a car and leave a location to Albemarle County at a high rate of speed,  driving in a matter that was reckless and placed others in danger,” Chief Longo said. Longo said he would not speculate on why Matthew sped off, but said investigators are “aggressively pursuing his location.”
Hannah Graham’s disappearance and Matthew’s description
Graham was last seen on surveillance camera early Saturday, Sept. 13. Her friends last heard from her around 1:20 a.m. that Saturday, when she sent a text saying she was lost in an area where she could not possibly have been, according to police.
The text said she was lost near her apartment, at 14th and Wertland Streets near the college, but surveillance video shows her over a mile away, leaving a restaurant named Tempo off of 5th Street.

Graham was seen leaving Tempo with Matthew, who police said bought drinks for them. Graham was also spotted a little earlier, walking eastbound down Main Street on the Downtown Mall, with Matthew’s arm on her waist.
Prior to that he was seen walking westbound along the Charlottesville downtown mall where numerous shops, bars and restaurants are located.  In the video shown below, Matthew cuts across the mall and begins heading eastbound, following Graham.



Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. is described as a black, dreadlocked male, 6’2″ and 32 years of age, weighing around 270 pounds. Matthew is reportedly driving his sister’s vehicle, a light blue Nissan Sentra with Virginia plates and the tags VAC4575.


PIC of Jesse Matthew w/ short & long hair, wanted for ABDUCTION of #HannahGraham http://t.co/WAppz42DKh pic.twitter.com/WWbVr2tjHY
— CBS 6 WTVR Richmond (@CBS6) September 24, 2014

Now that he has been charged with a felony crime, more police agencies can become involved, said Stone.
Police said that in addition to his home state of Virginia, he has known associates in Washington D.C., Maryland, Pennsylvania and New York.
A $50,000 reward is now being offered in hopes of soliciting tips that could lead police to Graham.
Anyone with information regarding Graham’s whereabouts should call (434) 295-3851 or 1-800-THE-LOST.
All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Lightning strike kills 11 tribe members during ritual, in Colombia



As Virginia same-sex unions take place, Family Foundation vows fight



18 irritating things you want to avoid doing at airports



Dog survives heartworms, car accident, even euthanasia attempt















News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

FBI, Virginia State Police investigated possible link between Alexis Murphy and Hannah Graham


News

WATCH: Lawyer for Jesse Matthew, suspect in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, goes off on reporter


News

Private school ‘vetted’ suspect Jesse Matthew Jr. as volunteer football coach


News

Don’t assume there is ‘irrefutable DNA evidence’ against Jesse Matthew



 


News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’


News

Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

‘He’s as gentle as they come,’ says dad of abduction suspect in Hannah Graham case



 


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Police made ‘tactical decisions’ handling missing UVa. student Hannah Graham case


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,633 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















