Ace News Desk 2014  | UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance 
Ace News Desk 2014  | UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance




Menu
Skip to content
#AceNewsDesk:`Publisher’s – Groups – Social – Media – Books – Music – Have Your Say’







Ace News Desk 2014 
`Important News, Views and Opinions '


Search










09.24.14


        	by #AceNewsGroup 


UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance


#AceNewsGroup:#AND2014 
Originally posted on WTVR.com:
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — University of Virginia President Teresa Sullivan issued a statement regarding campus safety in the wake of second-year student Hannah Graham’s disappearance.
The statement was posted on a page where updates are provided concerning Graham’s missing person case. Graham, age 18, was last seen by friends when she left a party and walked about a mile and a half on her own, to the downtown mall area in Charlottesville.
Sullivan’s safety announcement states that patrols have been increased and the number of vans available to students has been increased to help with safe rides.
Her letter is below.
To the University Community:
For more than a week, we have hoped and prayed for Hannah Graham and her family. Her safe return remains our highest priority, and I continue to urge you to share with police any information that might be related to the case by calling the dedicated…
View original 308 more words


About these ads




Ace News Desk:TwitterFacebookTumblrPrintMoreGooglePocketEmailLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

		This entry was posted in #AceNewsDesk. Bookmark the permalink.
			


Post navigation
← Private school ‘vetted’ suspect Jesse Matthew Jr. as volunteer football coach Don’t assume there is ‘irrefutable DNA evidence’ against Jesse Matthew →



Please leave a comment and l will always reply :) Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 



 


Connect



							Facebook						



							Twitter						



							Linkedin						



							Tumblr						



 
Search



Follow me on TwitterMy Tweets  Recent Posts 

Spanish Nurse & Kid from Miami USA – Possible Ebola & Obama


Ebola drugmakers’ shares up sharply


Over 3,000 register to vote after Michael Brown shooting


Teen from west Africa becomes ill in Miami with “Ebola like” symptoms


**BREAKING** Ebola Patient in Dallas Has Died – Reports


Ten Pennies Worth       
Mike Adams & Dav… on The CDC Does Nothing As Ebola…Opinion – Sino… on Opinion – Secret Report…Syrian Revolution’s… on Caucasus Emirate eulogizes sla…Organophosphates kil… on Behind The Secret Walls Of The…Opinion – Some… on Opinion – Secret Report… 
 Ace RT News‘Stop ISIS!’ Kurdish protesters storm Dutch parliament in The Hague (PHOTOS, VIDEO) October 6, 2014Several dozen Kurds have stormed the Dutch parliament building in The Hague, making their way inside the lobby following a spontaneous demonstration against Islamic State fighters attacking the Kurdish town of Kobani in Syria.Read Full Article at RT.com RT‘Keeper played well’: Team takes heart from 0-22 defeat October 6, 2014Tenth-tier English football club Cheadle Town has become an overnight Twitter sensation after releasing unusually positive comments following a 22-0 thrashing by Russian Under-19s in a friendly game.Read Full Article at RT.com RTNetanyahu says settlement criticism 'against American values', scores US scorn October 6, 2014Israel's prime minister has stated that US criticism of new Jewish settlements is “against American values,” adding that the idea of Israel ceasing its building efforts in Jerusalem is “anti-peace.” The White House responded by calling the comments “odd.”Read Full Article at RT.com RT170 kg of explosives destroyed in Russia's Dagestan October 6, 2014Russian security forces have prevented a series of potentially “resonant” terrorist attacks, destroying almost 170 kg of explosives in the southern Republic of Dagestan. Two policemen and a militant were killed in the operation.Read Full Article at RT.com RTRussia’s deployed nuclear capacity overtakes US for first time since 2000 October 6, 2014Russia has 1,643 nuclear missiles ready to launch – one more than the US – according to an official State Department report. Both countries have been upgrading their active nuclear arsenals since the outbreak of the Ukrainian conflict.Read Full Article at RT.com RTSpanish nurse tests positive for Ebola after treating victim in Madrid October 6, 2014A nurse who treated two Ebola patients at a Madrid hospital has become infected with the disease herself, health officials said.Read Full Article at RT.com RTRadioactive reindeer: Mushrooms blamed for Cesium spike in Norway October 6, 2014​Unexpectedly high levels of radioactivity have been found in Norway’s reindeer this autumn – almost 30 years after a radioactive cloud spread in the atmosphere of the country following the Chernobyl tragedy, say the country’s scientists.Read Full Article at RT.com RTNATO promises to protect Turkey against ISIS threat October 6, 2014NATO will not abandon Turkey if it is attacked by Islamic State fighters which are closing in on the member state's border from Syria, the alliance's secretary-general, Jens Stoltenberg, said.Read Full Article at RT.com RT2,000 evacuated as ISIS flag raised on outskirts of Kobani, Syria October 6, 2014The black Islamic State flag has been raised over a building on the outskirts of a strategic town of Kobani on the Syrian-Kurdish border, according to various sources. However, Kurds defending the border town say that the city has not yet fallen.Read Full Article at RT.com RTDetention extension? Australian spy agency’s power to hold without charge reviewed October 6, 2014Following Australia’s passing of draconian anti-terror laws late September, the country took another step in the direction. This may allow its security services to detain anyone without charge even before other methods of questioning have been exhausted.Read Full Article at RT.com RT Ace HPUK NewsPictures Of The Day: Photos From Tuesday 7th October 2014 October 7, 2014Pictures of the day from The Huffington Post brings you the very best news and sports images, from around the world chosen and created by our own photo editors, Elliot Wagland, Tahira Mirza and Michael Cripps.      Michael Cripps'Grantchester' Review Episode 1 - Robson Green, James Norton Charm In 1950s Period Crime Drama October 6, 2014Grantchester, the quaint little Cambridgeshire village previously best known for housing poet Rupert Brooke, writer Jeffrey Archer and the world's highest concentration of Nobel prize winners, has been given a new lease of life by this period detective drama, starring Robson Green as a policeman uncommonly assisted by a hot-under-the-collar vicar Sidney […] Caroline FrostArnis Zalkalns, Suspect In Alice Gross Murder, Confirmed As Decomposed Body Found In Wood October 6, 2014A decomposed body found in woodland on Saturday is that of Arnis Zalkalns - the prime suspect in the Alice Gross murder investigation, Scotland Yard said. A post-mortem examination of the body found in Boston Manor Park has been held and it has been formally identified as 41-year-old Zalkalns of Ealing, west London. Alice, 14, from Hanwell, west London, went […] Paul ValeGeoffrey Holder Dead: Bond Villain Baron Samedi Dies October 6, 2014Geoffrey Holder, a Tony Award-winning director, actor, painter, dancer and choreographer who during an eclectic show business career led the groundbreaking show "The Wiz" to Broadway, pitched 7-Up on TV and played a scary villain in a James Bond film, has died. He was 84. Holder died Sunday of complications of pneumonia at Mount Sinai St. Luke […] Paul ValeSpanish Nurse Is First Person In Europe To Test Positive For Ebola October 6, 2014In the first known transmission of the current outbreak of Ebola outside West Africa, a Spanish nurse who treated a missionary for the disease at a Madrid hospital has tested positive for the virus, Spain's health minister said Monday. The female nurse was part of the medical team that treated a 69-year-old Spanish priest who died in a hospital last mon […] Paul ValeJustine Greening Is 'Very, Very Scared' Of The Daily Mail, Claims Lib Dem Minister Colleague October 6, 2014International development secretary Justine Greening is "very, very scared" of the Daily Mail, according to the Lib Dem minister in the department. Taking part in a Q&A session with Lib Dem members at the party's conference in Glasgow on Monday, Lynne Featherstone offered advice about how activists could defend the coalition's policy […] Ned SimonsShrien Dewani's Love Letter To Anni Dewani Reveals Rocky Relationship In His Murder Trial October 6, 2014A revealing letter written by businessman Shrien Dewani to his murdered wife Anni has been read out in a South African court, where he is standing trial for her murder. The letter, written in May 2010, six months before Anni was found shot dead in a taxi in South Africa, says she was "precious" to him but also reveals a rocky side to their relation […] Louise RidleyGraphic Footage Of Anni Dewani's Body Shown To Court In 'Honeymoon Murder' Trial October 6, 2014Graphic footage of Anni Dewani’s body has been shown to a court in South Africa as the murder trial of her former husband began in sensational circumstances. The footage showed forensics officers opening the door of the abandoned taxi where Anni Dewani died, showing her lying stained with blood on the back seat, with her long hair moving in the breeze. MORE: […] Louise RidleyISIS Flag Flies Over Syrian Border Town Of Kobane As US-Led Air Strikes Fail To Subdue Militants October 6, 2014Militants have erected the black flag of the Islamic State over a building in the strategically important town of Kobane, Syria – just one mile from the border with Turkey. The area has witnessed intense fighting in recent weeks, with Kurdish militia battling to retain control of the town from the encroaching Islamists hordes. The symbolic raising of the fla […] Paul ValeWild Weather Strikes UK As 61-Year-Old Dies After Being Hit By Falling Masonry October 6, 2014A 61-year-old man has died after he was hit by falling masonry during windy conditions. Humberside Police said it was too early to say whether the stormy weather was responsible for the incident in Bridlington, East Yorkshire, this afternoon. Officers were called to Cliff Street in the seaside town just before 1pm today after reports the falling masonry hit […] James Martin Ace HPUS NewsAn error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later. Ace NYT NewsAfter Death of New Jersey Boy From Enterovirus 68, Worry Grows Among Parents October 7, 2014The virus, which has existed for decades, was never known to have spread widely until this year and the fact that there’s little treatment for it is fueling concerns. By MARC SANTORAMeg Whitman Finds a Vision for HP October 7, 2014By splitting Hewlett-Packard into two new entities, Meg Whitman is putting her own, decisive stamp on the iconic company she has led for three years. By QUENTIN HARDYEbola Infects Spanish Nurse, a First in West October 7, 2014The nurse contracted the illness while treating a Spanish missionary who was infected in Sierra Leone and flown to a hospital Madrid. By RAPHAEL MINDER and DENISE GRADYNationals 4, Giants 1: Playoff-Tested Pitcher Rescues the Nationals Against the Giants October 7, 2014Doug Fister tuned out the orange towels, the panda hats and the pressure of looming elimination, working seven shutout innings for his seventh quality start in a row in the postseason. By TYLER KEPNERBig Score for Georgia Tech, After Alum Wins Bid for a Relic October 7, 2014Ryan Schneider, who paid $40,388 for the ball from Georgia Tech’s 220-0 rout of Cumberland 98 years ago, plans to present it to the university. By MIKE TIERNEYStudy Finds Shifts in Charitable Giving After Recession October 7, 2014In 2012, the share of income that was donated by Americans earning $200,000 or more fell 4.6 percent since 2006, but it rose 4.5 percent among those earning less than $100,000. By JESS BIDGOODLas Vegas Schools Groan From Growing Pains October 7, 2014Teachers are scrambling to educate students without the classrooms they need and with no prospect of new ones being built any time soon, as people move back. By ADAM NAGOURNEYSupreme Court Delivers Tacit Win to Gay Marriage October 7, 2014The Supreme Court’s decision was a major surprise and suggests that the justices are not going to intercede in the wave of decisions in favor of same-sex marriage at least until a federal appeals court upholds a state ban. By ADAM LIPTAK35 Overlooked Parks in Poor New York City Neighborhoods to Get Makeovers October 7, 2014Mayor Bill de Blasio is expected to announce plans to spend $130 million on play areas in low-income areas across the city. By LISA W. FODERAROIncreased Screening for Ebola Is Being Weighed, Obama Says October 7, 2014President Obama called the fight against Ebola “a top national security priority,” but did not specify how screening procedures would be changed. By KEVIN SACK Ace Reuters NewsSouth, North Korea ships fire shots at disputed sea border October 7, 2014SEOUL (Reuters) - A South Korean naval ship fired warning shots on Tuesday after a North Korean patrol boat crossed a disputed sea border off the peninsula's west coast and fired shots back before retreating, a South Korean defense official said.    Hong Kong democracy protests fade, face test of stamina October 7, 2014HONG KONG (Reuters) - Pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong rolled into early Tuesday with hundreds of students remaining camped out in the heart of the city after more than a week of rallies and behind-the-scenes talks showing modest signs of progress.    Street fighting rages in Syrian town as Islamic State moves in October 7, 2014MURSITPINAR Turkey (Reuters) - Street fighting raged between Kurdish defenders and Islamic State militants who advanced into Kobani on Monday after subjecting the Syrian border town to an assault lasting almost three weeks, residents and fighters said.    Brazil's Rousseff, Neves race for support in election runoff October 7, 2014SAO PAULO/BRASILIA (Reuters) - A tight runoff campaign for Brazil's presidency kicked off on Monday with leftist incumbent Dilma Rousseff and pro-business rival Aecio Neves racing to win over supporters of the third-placed candidate after she was knocked out of the election.    Brazil's Rousseff, Neves race for support in election runoff October 6, 2014SAO PAULO/BRASILIA (Reuters) - A tight runoff campaign for Brazil's presidency kicked off on Monday with leftist incumbent Dilma Rousseff and pro-business rival Aecio Neves racing to win over supporters of the third-placed candidate after she was knocked out of the election.    Hong Kong democracy protests fade, face test of stamina October 6, 2014HONG KONG (Reuters) - Pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong rolled into early Tuesday with hundreds of students remaining camped out in the heart of the city after more than a week of rallies and behind-the-scenes talks showing modest signs of progress.    U.S. sees North Korean leader's absence, talks as tactical October 6, 2014WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A surprise visit by a senior North Korea delegation to South Korea and the disappearance from public view of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un for the past month have triggered speculation about Kim's health and the stability of his government.    Street fighting rages in Syrian town as Islamic State moves in October 6, 2014MURSITPINAR Turkey (Reuters) - Street fighting raged between Kurdish defenders and Islamic State militants who advanced into Kobani on Monday after subjecting the Syrian border town to an assault lasting almost three weeks, residents and fighters said.    Mexico's president vows to find miscreants responsible for massacre October 6, 2014CHILPANCINGO Mexico (Reuters) - Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto vowed on Monday to hunt down those responsible for the apparent massacre of dozens of students in the southwest of the country that authorities say involved local security officials.    Dearth of doctors drags on China private healthcare drive October 6, 2014SHANGHAI (Reuters) - As China tries to privatize an overburdened public healthcare system, private hospitals face a shortage ... of doctors.     Ace Food & DrinkAn error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later.Archives 
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014

Categories 
#AceFriendsNews

#AceNewsDesk

Ace Friends History

Uncategorized


Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com 
 
 


Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
The Newsworthy Theme.		
















Follow

Follow “Ace News Desk 2014 ”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 853 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com











Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



%d bloggers like this:





 





