<<<<<<< HEAD
Police-Involved Shooting « CBS Chicago

Police-Involved Shooting « CBS Chicago

=======
Suspected gunman caught in killing of 9 at historic black church in S.C. - Orlando Sentinel
Suspected gunman caught in killing of 9 at historic black church in S.C. - Orlando Sentinel


    Get unlimited digital access to OrlandoSentinel.com. Try it now for ONLY $0.99.     
>>>>>>> origin/master




<<<<<<< HEAD







=======
      News  US & World News           Suspected gunman caught in killing of 9 at historic black church in S.C.             Caption Cynthia Hurd's funeral Joe Raedle, Getty Images A program is handed out before the funeral of Cynthia Hurd, 54, at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on June 27, 2015. A program is handed out before the funeral of Cynthia Hurd, 54, at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on June 27, 2015. (Joe Raedle, Getty Images)     See more galleries     Caption President Obama Joe Raedle, Getty Images President Barack Obama delivers the eulogy for South Carolina state senator and Rev. Clementa Pinckney during Pinckney's funeral service June 26, 2015 in Charleston, South Carolina. President Barack Obama delivers the eulogy for South Carolina state senator and Rev. Clementa Pinckney during Pinckney's funeral service June 26, 2015 in Charleston, South Carolina. (Joe Raedle, Getty Images)     See more galleries      By Tribune wire reports  contact the reporter     Homicide   Crime   Barack Obama   Dylann Roof   Charleston Church Shooting    Suspected gunman in custody after church massacre in Charleston, S.C.       It was an act of "pure, pure concentrated evil," Charleston's mayor said — a black community's leading lights extinguished in a spray of bullets, allegedly at the hands of a young white man who was welcomed into their Bible study session. And so the nine victims at The Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church joined the ever-lengthening list of America's racial casualties.In one blow, the gunman ripped out part of South Carolina's civic heart: a state senator who doubled as the church's minister, three other pastors, a regional library manager, a high school coach and speech therapist, a government administrator, a college enrollment counselor and a recent college graduate. Six women and three men who felt called to open their church to all.   9 people were killed in the Charleston church shooting: Who they were James Queally, Christine Mai-Duc and Kurtis Lee A gunman who opened fire Wednesday night at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., killed nine people: six women and three men. Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten formally identified the victims Thursday, confirming that the deceased included... A gunman who opened fire Wednesday night at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., killed nine people: six women and three men. Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten formally identified the victims Thursday, confirming that the deceased included... ( James Queally, Christine Mai-Duc and Kurtis Lee ) Dylann Storm Roof, 21, had complained that "blacks were taking over the world" and that "someone needed to do something about it for the white race," according to a friend who alerted the FBI. He was arrested with his gun after an all-night manhunt, authorities said.President Barack Obama called the tragedy yet another example of damage wreaked on America by guns. NAACP President and CEO Cornell William Brooks said "there is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people." Others bemoaned the loss to a church that has served as a bastion of black power for 200 years, despite efforts by white supremacists to wipe it out."Of all cities, in Charleston, to have a horrible hateful person go into the church and kill people there to pray and worship with each other is something that is beyond any comprehension and is not explained," said Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. "We are going to put our arms around that church and that church family." lRelated 
US & World NewsDylann Roof: Racist jokes and black friends -- a man of contradictionsSee all related8  Surveillance video showed the gunman entering the church Wednesday night, and Charleston County Coroner Rae Wilson said the gunman initially didn't appear threatening."The suspect entered the group and was accepted by them, as they believed that he wanted to join them in this Bible study," she said. Then, "he became very aggressive and violent."Roof's childhood friend, Joey Meek, called the FBI after recognizing him in the surveillance footage, down to the stained sweatshirt he wore while playing Xbox videogames in Meek's home the morning of the attack."I didn't THINK it was him. I KNEW it was him," Meek told The Associated Press after being interviewed by investigators. Meek said Roof recently used his birthday money to buy a Glock pistol. When the two of them were drinking together a few weeks ago, Roof began railing about black people and remarked that he had "a plan," Meek said. He did not say what the plan was, but Meek said it scared him enough that he took the gun out of Roof's car and hid it in his house until the next day.Roof was arrested without incident Thursday in Shelby, North Carolina, after a motorist spotted him and tipped police, and waived extradition back to South Carolina, where he was held pending a bond hearing, Charleston Police said.His previous record includes misdemeanor drug and trespassing charges. He wasn't known to the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Alabama, and it's not clear whether Roof had any connection to the 16 white supremacist organizations operating in South Carolina, but he appears to be a "disaffected white supremacist," based on his Facebook page, said the center's president, Richard Cohen.Meek said he and Roof had been best friends in middle school, where "he was just a quiet kid who flew under the radar." Roof then disappeared and showed up again several weeks ago, seeming even more quiet and withdrawn.

cComments



@Tacojohn This is the most anti-science comment I've ever read. Do you think race is a factor in 80% of NBA players being black?
Otown Right Guy 3
at 7:49 PM June 22, 2015



Add a comment
See all comments
>>>>>>> origin/master




<<<<<<< HEAD


Chicago




Radio.com


CBS Local Sports


CBS Sports Radio


Tailgate Fan


Atlanta


Baltimore


Boston


Cleveland


Connecticut


Dallas


Denver


Detroit


Houston


Las Vegas


Los Angeles


Miami


Minnesota


New York


Philadelphia


Pittsburgh


Sacramento


San Francisco


Seattle


St Louis


Tampa


Washington






SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS


























Sponsored By






























CBS 2
Welcome to CBS 2 on CBSChicago.com! CBS 2 is joining forces with the most trusted local CBS RADIO stations in Chicago to give you the best Chicago has to offer as CBS Local. CBS 2 […]
WBBM Newsradio
Welcome to WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM, The Home of Chicago Bears Radio and Chicago Cubs Radio, on CBSChicago.com! WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM is joining forces with the CBS 2 Television and 670 The […]
670 The Score
Welcome to 670 The Score, the home of White Sox radio, on CBSChicago.com! The Score is partners with CBS 2 TV and WBBM 780, and they give you the best Chicago has to offer. 670 […]






Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube






















Home


News


Sports


Health


Audio


Video


Best Of


Events


Traffic


Weather


Contests


Directory


Travel


Deals


Circulars


Autos










 




 






Police-Involved Shooting
















Man With Gun Shot By Cops On West Side


Chicago police officers shot and wounded a man armed with a gun Tuesday afternoon in the South Austin neighborhood.


CBS Chicago–08/30/2011














No Bond For South Loop DUI Suspect Shot By Police


A suspected drunken driver who was shot by police early Friday after fleeing officers who found him passed out with a gun in a Jeep on a South Loop street has been charged.


08/28/2011














Man Shot By Cops Charged With Aggravated Assault


An 18-year-old man who was shot by Chicago police officers has been charged with aggravated assault for allegedly pointing a gun at the officers, who were investigating the sound of gunfire.


CBS Chicago–08/24/2011














Harvey Man Shot And Killed By Cop He Tried To Run Over


A Glenwood police officer shot and killed a 39-year-old man who tried to run him down early Friday morning in nearby south suburban Harvey.


08/19/2011














Cops Fatally Shoot Man During Domestic Disturbance


 A man was shot by police and two officers were hurt during a domestic disturbance Wednesday afternoon on the West Side.


CBS Chicago–08/03/2011














Boy, 13, Shot By Police Charged With Assaulting Officer


A 13-year-old boy shot by police last week will appear for a court hearing Aug. 15 after being charged with allegedly assaulting a police officer.


08/01/2011














Man Critically Wounded In Police-Involved Shooting


A man was critically wounded Monday night when he was shot by police on the West Side. No officers were injured.


07/25/2011














Police Fatally Shoot Man In Gresham


Officers fatally shot an armed man who reportedly was using a female as a hostage in the Gresham neighborhood on the South Side early Sunday.


07/17/2011














Officer Fatally Wounds Armed Suspect In Austin Neighborhood


A police union spokesman says a Chicago police officer initially withheld returning fire to avoid harming innocent bystanders. 


07/16/2011














Park Erupts Into Melee; Man Shot By Police


A South Side park erupted into chaos Sunday afternoon when a shoot-out between police and an alleged gunman interrupted families’ Father’s Day celebrations.


CBS Chicago–06/19/2011














Man Fatality Shot By Police Outside His Home


Chicago Police shot and killed a man outside his Humboldt Park home Wednesday night. He is the third person shot, and second killed, on that block in the past three days.


WBBM Newsradio–06/15/2011














Cops Shoot Man During Burglary Call


Chicago police officers shot and wounded a man on the West Side near the United Center while responding to a burglary in progress Sunday morning.


06/05/2011














Suspect Shot After Foot Chase By Police


Grand Central Gang Enforcement officers were on a mission when they saw a suspect inside a vehicle point a handgun at a group of people before the vehicle drove off.


05/31/2011














Cops Shoot Suspect Who Pointed Gun At Crowd On NW Side


Police shot a male early Monday on the Northwest Side after he twice pointed a gun at officers while fleeing a traffic stop.


05/30/2011














Man Critically Wounded In Police Involved Shooting


The Independent Police Review Authority is investigating a police shooting that left one man in critical condition in the South Austin neighborhood. 


CBS Chicago–04/11/2011














Cops Shoot Man Who Allegedly Pulled Gun On Officer


Police officers shot and wounded a man late Friday night when he allegedly pulled out a sawed-off rifle during a foot chase on the South Side.


04/09/2011














2 Charged After Shootout With Police


Two men have been charged — one with attempted murder, both with armed robbery and resisting arrest — after a shootout with a police sergeant following an apparent armed robbery on the South Side early Friday.


03/26/2011














Suicidal Man Shot, Killed After Threatening Cops With Knife


Police officers in west suburban Naperville shot and killed a suicidal man who was threatening them with a large knife early Tuesday morning.


CBS Chicago–03/22/2011














Man Shot After He Points Fake Gun At Police


A man who ran from police conducting a gang and drug investigation was shot by officers when he pointed a gun at them. The gun was determined to be a fake, police said.


03/12/2011














Man Injured In Second Police-Involved Shooting This Week


The man was struck by a round fired by a Chicago Police officer but did not suffer life threatening injuries, authorities said.


02/25/2011










more
 




previous
 








Listen Live




 


 
Most Popular News
2015 A Record Year For Tornadoes In Chicago Area
The Chicago area has set a record for the most tornadoes in a single year, according to National Weather Service data. 
 
463
2 Killed, 7 Injured In High-Speed Crash In Robbins; Drag Racing Suspected
A couple from south suburban Robbins was killed Thursday night, then their minivan was struck by two vehicles that appeared to be drag racing, and blew a stop sign.
 
185
Off-Duty Chicago Police Officer Dies After Motorcycle Crash
Tuesday afternoon, 35-year-old Jonathan Ho was riding a motorcycle at 95th Street and Vincennes Avenue, when it collided with another vehicle, according to Chicago Police and the Cook County medical examiner’s office.
 
230
Woman, 70, Attacked On Zion Bike Path
A 70-year-old woman was brutally attacked early Thursday while out for her morning walk on a popular bike path in north suburban Zion.
 
135
In-Flight Internet Provider Gogo Opens Chicago Headquarters
Gogo moved from the suburb of Itasca, Illinois, to a building in downtown Chicago that houses offices of other tech companies like Twitter and Uber. The site, which used to be called River Center, was renamed The Gogo Building.
 
71
Eight Wounded In Thursday Shootings Across Chicago
Most recently, two men were shot late Thursday in the West Side Austin neighborhood. The men, ages 19 and 20, were standing outside in the 1500 block of North Linder about 10:25 p.m. when shots were fired in their direction from a group of males standing on the corner across the street, according to Chicago Police.
 
80




Follow 
CBS Chicago
























Follow @CBSChicago












Like us on foursquare




































Follow More Stations and Personalities






 
Contests & Promotions
Blue Collar Bears Fan Of The Week
 
August 27, 2015
The Village of Bedford Park's Blue Collar Bears Fan Of The Week has officially kicked off. Nominate yourself, a family member, or friend for a chance to win a weekly $100 Gift Card To Hugo's Frog Bar & Fish House! 
Win Tickets To See Mayweather In Las Vegas
 
August 19, 2015
Twelve-time, 5-division world champion Floyd “Money” Mayweather and 2-time world champion Andre Berto touch gloves on Sept. 12 at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas and CBS Sports Radio wants you to be there!
Chicago Bears Miller Lite Kickoff Concert Online Giveaway 
 
August 18, 2015
Celebrate NFL Back to Football week at a free concert by Chicago's own Fall Out Boy, Friday, September 11th at the Park West in Chicago! Click here for your chance to win! Must be 21+ 
Tito’s Handmade Vodka Golf Outing And 19th Hole Party
 
August 3, 2015
Sign up now for your chance to win a twosome in the 2015 Tito's handmade Vodka golf outing and 19th hole party September 8th at Indian Lakes Resort. 
Latest Videos
 


 


More Contests & Promotions…
 


Twitter Updates



				RT @
dodgerman
: 2015 A Record Year For Tornadoes In Chicago Area 
 cbsloc.al/1LGzANK
 
24 minutes ago





				NOW: Live streaming of CBS2’s newscast. One click and you’re in the loop. Starts now: 
 CBSChicago.com/watch
 
#LIVE
 
33 minutes ago




 














News Via Email
 




Download The Free App
 




New Podcast Network
 




Download Our New Weather App!
 










 










News




Local


Investigative


Politics


Consumer


Health


Weather


Traffic






Sports




Bears


White Sox


Cubs


Blackhawks


Bulls


Podcasts


Blogs






Scores & Stats




NFL Football


MLB Baseball


NBA Basketball


NHL Hockey






Contact Us




CBS 2


WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM


670 The Score


Connect


Mobile






Corporate




About Us


Advertise


Business Development


Contact


Mobile


Connect










Chicago Business Listings




Restaurants


Bars & Clubs


Shopping


Professional Services


Search Listings








By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our 
Video Services Policy


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Your California Privacy Rights


Mobile User Agreement


Ad Choices


Advertise With Us


Contest & Promotion Rules


EEO Reports


WBBM-TV Public File


Internships


CBS Radio Jobs


CBS Television Jobs


Deals


 
Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP


 










Facebook


Twitter


RSS






Other CBS Local Cities 




CBS Atlanta


CBS Baltimore


CBS Boston


CBS Charlotte


CBS Chicago


CBS Cleveland


CBS Connecticut


CBS Dallas


CBS Denver


CBS Detroit


CBS Houston


CBS Las Vegas


CBS Los Angeles


CBS Miami


CBS Minnesota


CBS New York


CBS Philadelphia


CBS Pittsburgh


CBS Riverside


CBS Sacramento


CBS San Francisco


CBS Seattle


CBS St. Louis


CBS Tampa


CBS Washington










©2015 CBS Local Media,
 
a division of CBS Radio Inc.
 
All rights reserved.












Buy Tickets
Order Food
 


More


Channels
Buy Tickets
Order Food
Your Home
Contests
Mobile Alerts
Email Alerts
Daily Deals
50% Off From ATE Accessories
 




















Log In
Register
 




Follow Us


Facebook


Twitter


Youtube












 
























Listen Live








AM/FM Stations




93 XRT


US 99.5


KHiTS 104.3


B96


670 The Score


WBBM NewsRadio






Featured Shows & Multimedia




Play.It


The Spiegel & Goff Show


CBS Sports Radio


Radio.com








Advertise On Our Streams






























 

=======
683



 But on his Facebook page, Roof displayed the flags of defeated white-ruled regimes, posing with a Confederate flags plate on his car and wearing a jacket with stitched-on flag patches from apartheid-era South Africa and Rhodesia, which is now black-led Zimbabwe.And when Meek asked what was troubling Roof, "he started talking about race," the friend said.Spilling blood inside "Mother Emanuel," founded in 1816, evoked painful memories nationwide, a reminder that black churches so often have been the targets of racist violence.A church founder, Denmark Vesey, was hanged after trying to organize a slave revolt in 1822, and white landowners burned the church in revenge, leaving parishioners to worship underground until after the Civil War. The congregation rebuilt the church and grew stronger. Martin Luther King Jr., brought the 1960s campaign for voting rights to its pulpit. Its lead pastor, state Sen. Clementa Pinckney — among the dead — recalled his church's history in a 2013 sermon, saying "we don't see ourselves as just a place where we come to worship, but as a beacon and as a bearer of the culture.""What the church is all about," Pinckney said, is the "freedom to be fully what God intends us to be and have equality in the sight of God. And sometimes you got to make noise to do that. Sometimes you may have to die like Denmark Vesey to do that."Pinckney, 41, was a married father of two and a Democrat who spent 19 years in the South Carolina legislature after he was first elected at 23, becoming the youngest member of the House."He had a core not many of us have," said Sen. Vincent Sheheen, who sat beside him in the Senate. "I think of the irony that the most gentle of the 46 of us — the best of the 46 of us in this chamber — is the one who lost his life." The other victims were Cynthia Hurd, 54; Tywanza Sanders, 26; Myra Thompson, 59; Ethel Lance, 70; Susie Jackson, 87; and the reverends DePayne Middleton Doctor, 49; Sharonda Singleton, 45; and Daniel Simmons Sr., 74.Jackson's niece Cynthia Taylor said she spoke with one of the survivors of the shooting. She said Felecia Sanders told her she played dead while lying on top of her granddaughter to protect her, and that's how she made it out of the church alive.U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch said the attack would be investigated as a hate crime.Meek said his friend had become an avowed racist."He said he wanted segregation between whites and blacks. I said, 'that's not the way it should be.' But he kept talking about it," Meek said.Obama, who personally knew the slain pastor, was one of the few politicians to call for stricter gun control."I've had to make statements like this too many times," the president said. "At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries."    This shooting "should be a warning to us all that we do have a problem in our society," said state Rep. Wendell Gilliard, a Democrat whose district includes the church. "There's a race problem in our country. There's a gun problem in our country. We need to act on them quickly." Flowers tied to a police barricade outside the church formed a growing memorial, two months after another memorial appeared at the scene in neighboring North Charleston where Walter Scott was shot in the back by a white police officer. That shooting of an unarmed black man prompted South Carolina to pass a law to equip police with body cameras statewide. Pinckney co-sponsored it.Associated Press  Copyright © 2015, Orlando Sentinel           









                      Related Content




 Homicide

 Crime

 Barack Obama

 Dylann Roof

 Charleston Church Shooting
 US & World News  Dylann Roof: Racist jokes and black friends -- a man of contradictionsAlready in his young life, 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof was a study in contradictions. News  Raw video: Mass shooting at Charleston, S.C., churchPolice responded to a call of a mass shooting at a church in South Carolina on June 17, 2015. (WCSC-TV Charleston) US & World News  Obama on Charleston shooting: 'I've had to make statements like this too many times'President Obama offers his remarks the day after nine people were shot and killed at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C., on June 18, 2015. (Video: AP, photo: EPA) Breaking News  Suspect in attack on elderly woman now in custodyThe man who allegedly stabbed his elderly neighbor Saturday is now in custody according to the Orange County Sheriff's Office. Breaking News  Eight people rescued from three airboats stranded in EvergladesAn airboat that ran aground in the Everglades touched off two failed rescues over the weekend by friends and family, leaving eight people stranded until a Broward Sheriff's Office helicopter plucked them to safety. Technology  Nintendo's Satoru Iwata dies at 55; under him, Wii created hordes of new gamersNintendo President Satoru Iwata, who had led the company since 2002 and presided over the launch of the monumentally successful Wii video game console, died Saturday. He was 55. Breaking News  3-alarm blaze near UCF destroys apartment complex buildingErin Johnson was studying for an organic chemistry exam at her apartment Sunday afternoon just before the building caught fire, leaving her and 74 others without a place to live. Go For Launch  It's showtime for Pluto; prepare to be amazed by NASA flybyPluto, reveal thyself, and Earthlings, enjoy the show.


                                Comments               





LoadingHome News Classified Sports Entertainment Weather Business Lifestyle Health Travel Opinion Neighborhoods Videos & Photo Varsity Cars & Trucks El Sentinel GrowthSpotter Partner Sites Advertise Contact/About Public Notices Enter to win Shop Terms: Update Privacy:Update Member Center Manage Account Newsletters News Alerts Mobile Apps Rewards Digital Copy FAQ News Tips About Our Ads Privacy:Update Terms: Update Contact Us Pictures: Cause 4 Paws pet rescue pub crawl in OrlandoNews Breaking News Local News Obituaries Crime Politics Education Nation/World Neighborhoods Orange Seminole Lake Osceola Volusia SunRail Lottery Traffic Mug Shots Beth KassabJon BusdekerPolitical PulseReligion WorldRide With MeSchool ZoneScott MaxwellPictures: 30 best high schools in FloridaPictures: Most dangerous cities in FloridaClassified Find a Job Jobs Cars & Trucks Find a Car Real Estate Rentals Foreclosures ForSaleByOwner Obituaries Public Notices Merchandise Garage Sales Celebrations Place an Ad HOA & Condo BlogSenior HelpersLuxury homes in OrlandoSafest 2014 carsSports Orlando City World Cup UCF Knights Florida Gators FSU Seminoles Orlando Magic Varsity Golf UM Hurricanes Solar Bears Predators Recruiting Mike Bianchi More Sports VarsityChopping BlockKnights NotepadSwamp ThingsCollege Gridiron 365Magic BasketblogFlorida RecruitingEn FuegoOpen MikeDavid WhitleyFrom the Sports EditorOn the PitchRide, Run, Work OutBrant ParsonsBrian SchmitzGround & PoundWrestlingNCAA CollegePictures: Orlando City vs DC United PreseasonPictures: 2015 Orlando City Media DayEntertainment Events Events App Restaurants Bars & Clubs TV Movies Theater & Arts Music Horoscope Comics Games/Puzzles Celebrity Gay & Lesbian Party Pics The Artistic TypeThe DishSoundboardTheme Park RangersTV GuyTrailer TalkCheck out our new FREE events appWeather Radar Hurricane HQ Storm Guide Marine Orange Seminole Lake Osceola Volusia Disney & Parks Pictures: 25 things to do on a rainy day in OrlandoPictures: Lightning in Florida and around the worldBusiness People On Move Disney/Travel Technology US Business Real Estate GrowthSpotter Deals/Shopping Cars & Trucks Tourism Health Jobs & Working Find a Job FIND BUSINESS Brinkmann on BusinessFrugal ForceTech CheckTheme Park RangersTourism CentralFuel-Efficient CarsUpdated: Top 25 Orlando-area most valuable propertiesClosed for business: Orlando-area retail and restaurant closingsLifestyle Food/Recipes Home/Garden Health Breast Cancer Fitness Travel Deals/Shopping Pets Religion Lottery Celebrations Summer Camps Pool Guide Animal CrazyRun, Ride, Work OutFlorida 360Gone ViralJon BusdekerThe ListMoms at WorkTom's DigsStates ranked by obesityRainy day activitiesHealth Fitness Marijuana Medicare Guide Breast Cancer Ride, Run, WorkoutVital SignsSenior Helpers (Sponsored)Celebrities battling illnessesDo You Know Your Superfoods?Travel Lake County Explore Fla Offers Daily Disney Cruises Hidden Orlando Attractions Harry Potter Beaches Destinations Springs Bike Trails Bike Week Theme Park RangersFlorida travel calendar for JulyFlorida Travel Tips & DealsOpinion Ticked Off! Letters Editorials Columnists Scott MaxwellBeth KassabGallery: Orlando Sentinel syndicated cartoonistsPictures: Orlando power brokersNeighborhoods Altamonte Apopka Casselberry Clermont/S Lk College Park DeLand/Volusia Disney Area Downtown Orl Dr Phillips East Orange Eustis/N Lk Heathrow I-Drive Kissimmee Lake Mary Lake Nona Leesburg Longwood Maitland MT Dora/N LK Ocoee Oviedo Pine Hills Sanford South Orlando St Cloud Tavares/N LK UCF Area Universal West Orlando Windermere Winter Garden Winter Park Winter Springs More Areas Pictures: Cause 4 Paws pet rescue pub crawl in OrlandoVideos & Photo Videos Photos News Video Sports Video Magic Video Varsity Video Politics Video Travel Video Theme Parks Your Photos Buy Photos Florida 360Jon BusdekerOrlando Sentinel Originals on HuluEagle takes a visit to the vetVarsity Scores Recruiting Football Boys BBall Girls BBall Baseball Softball Volleyball Wrestling See All Sports Video Super 60 VarsityFlorida Recruiting2014 Varsity Football Media DayMedia Day Photo BoothCars & Trucks Find a Car New Car Deals Used Car Deals Car Reviews Car Care Fuel-Efficient Motorcycles Sell Your Car El Sentinel Parques Negocios Deportes Patria Contactenos Promocionate Anuncios Suscribete GrowthSpotter HypeOrlando Forum MyFoxOrlando Media Kit Place an Ad Classified Ads About Our Ads Brand Extra Ad Policy Contact Us Manage Account Site Feedback News Tips Submit Letter Enter to Win Rewards Mobile Apps Blogs RSS Reading by 9 Marketplace Archives Work For Us Sentinel Store Buy Photos Back Issues Archives Buy Reprints Buy Tickets Shop Orlando Travel Deals Local Ads 



>>>>>>> origin/master



 


<<<<<<< HEAD

























=======
   
>>>>>>> origin/master






