<<<<<<< HEAD
Behind the Hate Crime Massacre in a Black Charleston Church - The Daily Beast 
Behind the Hate Crime Massacre in a Black Charleston Church - The Daily Beast
The Daily Beast
Politics
Entertainment
World
U.S. News
Tech + Health
BeastStyle
Books
Games
 
Written by
Nico Hines 
Jason Ryan 
Katie Zavadski 
facebook
tweet
email
SUBMIT
SUBMIT
SUBMIT
SUBMIT
SUBMIT
POST
PSYCHO
06.18.15
8:09 AM ET
Behind the Hate Crime Massacre in a Black Charleston Church
The killer waited his time in the pews, then gunned down black people at a prayer meeting before fleeing.
A lone white shooter 
massacred nine people
 during a prayer meeting at one of the South’s most venerable black churches last night.


The shooter, a young man dressed unremarkably in a sweatshirt, jeans, and Timberlands, sat inside the church in 
Charleston, South Carolina
, for about an hour alongside his intended targets before opening fire.


GALLERY: Remembering the Victims of Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church (PHOTOS)
Randall Hill/Reuters
At around 9 p.m. ET, after reportedly telling one member of the congregation that he was 
sparing her
 so that she could spread word of his heinous attack, he fled into the night.


FBI officers suspect that man was Dylann Roof, 21, from Columbia, South Carolina. His uncle told Reuters that he recognized his nephew when he saw the surveillance photo of the wanted man. “The more I look at him, the more I’m convinced, that’s him,” said Carson Cowles.
=======
Police search for shooters in two morning shootings | Fox 59 
Police search for shooters in two morning shootings | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police search for shooters in two morning shootings

Posted 4:55 PM, June 28, 2015, by Jim Scott 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 



×
Police search for shooters in two morning shootings


 


INDIANAPOLIS,Ind. (June 28, 2015)–Metropolitan police continue to look for two gunmen in separate shootings Sunday morning.
Shortly before 2 a.m. police were called to the 1400 block of Charing Cross Drive on the city’s south side on a report of a man shot in the head.  That scene is near Madison Avenue and East Thompson Road.
31-year-old Bradley R. Kelley was taken to Eskenazi Hospital in good condition.
Around 8:50 a.m. police and medics were called to the west side on a report of a person shot multiple times.
Police did not find anyone in the 600 block of Auburn Street.  According to investigators, that is where the shooting occurred but the victim then drove himself to the 5000 block of West Washington Street where police located him.
Police say the victim was shot at least twice in the hip area.  He was taken to Eskenazi Hospital.
Investigators searched the area but were unable to locate a suspect.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



PHOTOS: Areas of central Indiana flooded after overnight storms



Heavy flooding and water rescues Sunday morning



Police arrest driver in motorcycle crash that killed a passenger



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Morgan County residents clean up after flash flooding overtakes homes and creates a muddy mess



Closing arguments to begin Monday morning in Richmond Hill Trial



New Mexico Amber Alert teen found safe in Indianapolis, suspect in custody



Tornado rips through Johnson County; damage repairs underway





 






>>>>>>> origin/master




<<<<<<< HEAD
His uncle said Roof was given a .45-caliber pistol by his father for his 21st birthday in April.




Three men and six women were slain by the gunman at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on Charleston’s Calhoun Street. Police said there were three survivors.


Within hours of the crime, police said they believed they were dealing with a hate crime.


Among the dead was Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, 41, a respected community leader with a bright future in the church. His former mentor told The Daily Beast that his murder will deepen racial tensions in a community that is still splintered more than 154 years after South Carolina declared that it would secede from the Union to defend slavery. 


“His loss is an incalculable loss for our church and for the state,” said Joseph Darby, the presiding elder of the 32 AME churches in the southern part of the state. “He was a caring pastor, a progressive advocate, and a very nice guy, with a wife and two daughters. A very down-to-earth, good person.”


Although distinctions are made between such killings and “terrorism,” for the sake of comparison one may note that in the 2013 
Boston Marathon bombing
, while many were badly injured, three people were killed by two improvised explosive devices. In Charleston, one man with what appears to have been one gun killed three times that many.


If a white supremacist proves to have been behind this attack, it will have been one of the most horrific in civil-rights history, coming 52 years after the Ku Klux Klan detonated explosives at a black church in Birmingham, Alabama, killing four girls.


Darby, a former pastor of the Morris Brown AME Church a few blocks from the shooting, said police were increasing security at all of his churches but insisted that they would remain open despite fears of further attacks. “Hopefully there will be no more, but nobody is closing down church. They have tried to engage in that kind of racist terrorism since the beginning of America. It hasn’t worked yet, and it won’t work now,” he said. “People play divisive political games to stir up racists because sometimes that means they go to the polls to vote; sometimes folks that are less able take up a gun and do something stupid.”


Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the slain pastor, told MSNBC that she had spoken to one of the survivors who said the gunman had reloaded five times during the attack. When they tried to talk him into putting the gun down, she said: “He just said, ‘I have to do it. You rape our women and you’re taking over our country.”




Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen said the full might of the America’s law enforcement would do “whatever we have to do” to catch the suspect. “From the time this call came in, we have resources coming from all over the East Coast,” he said during a press conference Thursday morning. But the gunman is still at large and still considered extremely dangerous.


Racial tensions were heightened in the region after a white North Charleston policeman was 
filmed shooting
 and killing Walter Scott, a black man, who was running away from him in April.


GALLERY: Charleston Church Shooting Aftermath (PHOTOS)


David Goldman/AP
Reporters for Charleston’s 
Post and Courier
 
captured some of the emotion
 in the streets. “I’m lost, I’m lost,” John Quil Lance told one of them:


“‘Granny was the heart of the family.’ He said his grandmother had worked at the church for more than 30 years. ‘She’s a Christian, hardworking; I could call my granny for anything. I don’t have anyone else like that.’ He said he didn’t know her condition. ‘I don’t even know if she’s alive now.’ He threw his hands up. ‘I don’t even know if my grandmother is alive.’ He paced up and down Ashley Avenue, and his thoughts gathered momentum. ‘What was this guy thinking? That dude shot a bunch of elderly people! Now people are going to be afraid to go to church. I don’t know what’s going to come of this. I’ll tell you this, I’m not the only one praying tonight.’ At 12:45 a.m., as word spread about the deaths, Lance fell to the ground and sobbed. ‘Somebody better get that [expletive].’”


Eight people were killed inside the church and another victim died in an ambulance on the way to the hospital.


For Charleston Mayor Joe Riley, the horror of Wednesday night began to unfold when he heard his landline phone ringing. His gut told him right away there was a problem.


He picked up the receiver to find city Police Chief Greg Mullen on the line.


“How are you?” asked the mayor.


“Very bad,” said the chief.


Riley soon learned of the nightmare that taken hold of downtown Charleston. He changed into a coat and tie and headed toward the church, ultimately joining family members of the victims at a nearby hotel. There, he says, people were “weeping and holding each other, praying.”


“It was a very heartbreaking experience,” said the mayor. “The most inventive novelist couldn’t come up with something that deranged… It shows a hateful and deranged mind.”


Riley, a Democrat who has been mayor since 1975, said last night’s church shooting would motivate him to renew his call for stricter gun laws.


“This is just a very tragic and heartbreaking example of why this is needed,” he said.


South Carolina State Representative Wendell Gilliard, a friend of Pastor Pinckney, said the loss of his colleague must become a moment to inspire gun-control reforms.


“We should not go around insisting on being able to carry guns in every place,” said Gilliard. “You know what we should be armed with?” he asked. “Dignity, respect, and love for all mankind.”


how do i comment?
share
tweet
SUBMIT
email
SUBMIT
SUBMIT
SUBMIT
SUBMIT
POST
Get The Daily Beast In Your Inbox
Cheat Sheet
A speedy, smart summary of news and must-reads from across the Web, and the latest original stories on politics, entertainment, and more from The Daily Beast. Delivered weekday mornings and afternoons.
Daily Digest
Start your day and finish your day with the smartest, sharpest takes from The Daily Beast. Delivered every weekday morning and afternoon.
By clicking "Subscribe", you agree to have read the 
Terms of Use
 and 
Privacy Policy
Subscribe
Thank You!
You are now subscribed to the Cheat Sheet. We will not share your email with anyone for any reason
You are now subscribed to the Daily Digest. We will not share your email with anyone for any reason
You are now subscribed to the Daily Digest and Cheat Sheet. We will not share your email with anyone for any reason
Follow The Daily Beast
Follow @thedailybeast
About us
Contact us
Jobs
Advertise
Help
Mobile Site
Privacy
Community Policy
Terms & Conditions
Copyright & Trademark
© 2014 The Daily Beast Company LLC
=======


Crimetracker News

Four people dead after 11 shootings over 3 days across Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Nine people shot in in two days as violent Memorial Day carries into Tuesday


News

Police search for suspects after man shot while mowing lawn on east side


News

Police investigating double shooting on far east side


News

Police identify elderly couple seriously hurt after attack in house on Indianapolis’ west side



 


News

Two people shot outside strip club on Indy’s near west side


News

Police investigating drive-by shooting that killed one man, injured 3 others


Crimetracker News

Victim takes suspect’s gun in early morning shooting


Crimetracker News

Man in serious condition after shooting on near west side of Indianapolis


News

Police: Robbery motive in northeast side shooting



 


News

Police in Lawrence investigating after person shot


News

Police search for suspect who shot man on the far east side of Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Homeowner, suspect shot in two incidents on northwest side






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















>>>>>>> origin/master
