New witness comes forward in controversial police shooting | FOX2now.com 
New witness comes forward in controversial police shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







New witness comes forward in controversial police shooting

Posted 10:48 pm, May 13, 2015, by Andy Banker 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS (KTVI) – A new witness came forward Wednesday with another side to a controversial St. Louis Police shooting.
A St. Louis Police Officer shot Jennifer Morgan-Tyra, 39, multiple times Friday, at her brother’s home in the 4200 block of Chippewa in South St. Louis during a domestic disturbance.
Morgan-Tyra is the wife of a St. Louis City Sheriff’s Deputy.
Her family is outraged.
Karla Nicholson, who was at the center of the disturbance, spoke with FOX 2 in an exclusive interview.
“I was sitting on the bed and she’s standing here and they’re back here by the kitchen yelling, ‘drop it, drop it’,” Nicholson said, recalling the details of the shooting.
She said she was the woman Morgan-Tyra’s family has referred to as the ‘intruder’ in the incident.
Morgan-Tyra certainly pointed a gun at Nicholson.
Nicholson said Morgan-Tyra’s family looked at her as a bad influence on Morgan-Tyra’s brother, Mike, who lives at the home and still deals with a traumatic brain injury suffered 7 years ago.
Mike Morgan said he called his sister to help him get Nicholson out of his house.
But both Nicholson and police said Nicholson was no intruder.  She was a frequent overnight guest; Mike Morgan had even given her own key, they said.
Also Mike Morgan told FOX 2 he tried to take the gun away from his sister to protect Nicholson before police arrived but his sister refused to drop it.
Nicholson said both women called 911 and that she was on the phone with police throughout the incident.  There should be an audio recording, she said.
“I heard ‘drop the gun, drop the gun’.  I just heard it repeatedly, 3-4 times.  She didn’t do it, the next thing you know ‘pop, pop, pop’,” Nicholson said, referring to the shots fired.
Morgan-Tyra’s family members said she remained on life-support Wednesday with 11 bullet wounds.
She never pointed the gun at police, they said, even though she faces felony charges for allegedly doing just that.
“I want the truth.  I can’t believe they shot my sister up with all those bullet holes.  Now they’re going to try to sweep it under the carpet,” said Morgan-Tyra’s sister, Rebecca Morgan.  “She would have never pointed a gun at an officer.  She just didn’t drop that gun fast enough.”
But she wasn’t in the room when it happened.
Nicholson was.  Though she thought police did the right thing, she wanted the Morgan family to know how heartsick she was and that she was praying for Jennifer.
“I feel like police were in for their lives…I just want to tell (the Morgan) family that I’m sorry for Jennifer getting hurt,” Nicholson said, breaking into tears.
She also said she was not armed with a screwdriver as earlier reported.
Though Morgan-Tyra pointed a gun at her, she never pointed the gun at police, Nicholson said.

38.627003
-90.199404



Related stories

Family of woman shot by police disputes their story
Police shoot armed woman in south St. Louis




Filed in: News Topics: new witness, police shooting, south st. louis, st louis police 













 






STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Family of woman shot by police disputes their story


News

Charges filed against woman who shot at police officers


News

Police shoot armed woman in south St. Louis


News

Woman shot overnight in south St. Louis


News

Circuit attorney responds to protesters in VonDeritt Myers Jr. case



 


News

Police: 4 critically wounded in St. Louis shooting


News

Linda McLaughlin’s disappearance detailed by police


News

6 St. Louis police shooting protesters get summonses


News

St. Louis police officer arrested after investigation finds guns, heroin & cash


News

Elderly woman killed while sitting on back porch



 


News

Family frustrated south St. Louis murder suspect not under arrest


News

Police reportedly shoot Affton ‘Person of Interest’ in Alton


News

Circuit Attorney: Officer won’t face charges in shooting death of VonDerrit Myers






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















