Police Search for Suspect After Man Shot Multiple Times in South Sacramento | FOX40 
Police Search for Suspect After Man Shot Multiple Times in South Sacramento | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police Search for Suspect After Man Shot Multiple Times in South Sacramento

Posted 10:04 PM, April 22, 2015, by Genny McLaren 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





SOUTH SACRAMENTO-
Chatting in their car put one couple in harm’s way Wednesday night.
Sacramento County sheriff’s deputies learned of a shooting when a wounded man in his mid-20s drove to Mutual Housing at Sky Park to call for help.
He was attacked just around the corner.
Deputies found bullet casings in front of 7029 Sixth Parkway.
They say the victim and his wife were sitting in a car there when they somehow got into a heated argument with man walking down the street.
That man apparently pulled a gun and fired repeatedly into the car, only striking one occupant.
Neighbors right next door were stunned at what they heard.
“I got up from a nap and all I heard was like six shots.  And I looked outside and all I seen was a lady running this way,” said Dominic McClure.
James Hollis heard the gunfire from several blocks away and said there was no mistaking the sound.
“I thought it was a shooting but I didn’t know where it was. I was kind of surprised it was over here,” he said.
The suspect in this case was last seen on foot and has not yet been arrested.
As of 10:30 p.m. Wednesday, the injured man was in surgery.
Investigators say his wounds are life-threatening, but that he was awake and able to talk to them before being taken to the hospital.



Filed in: Local News 













 






Like FOX40 on Facebook!
Join the conversation by commenting on the FOX40News Facebook page







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












Local News

Suspect in Carmichael Shooting, Standoff Identified


Local News

19-Year Sheriff’s Deputy on Administrative Leave After Shooting


News

One Dead, One Injured in Two North Sacramento Shootings


Local News

Officer Involved Shooting in Rancho Cordova


National and World News

South Carolina Police Shooting: Authorities Release Dash Cam Video



 


Local News

Sac County Deputy Shoots Suspected Gunman in North Highlands


Local News

One Shot to Death, Two Suffer Gunshot Wounds at Rancho Cordova Party


Local News News

Happening Now: Burglar in Rancho Cordova Found Inside Garbage Can and More


Local News News

Man Shot and Killed in Rancho Cordova, Deputies Searching for Shooter


Local News

New Details Emerge about Man Shot Multiple Times by Officer



 


Local News

Fatal Drive-by Shooting in South Sacramento Leaves One Dead


Local News

Deputies: Shootout between Cars Leads to Crash, Power Outage in South Sac


News

Charleston Vigil In Sacramento






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















