One dead, two wounded in south St. Louis shooting | FOX2now.com 
One dead, two wounded in south St. Louis shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







One dead, two wounded in south St. Louis shooting

Posted 9:07 am, April 4, 2015, by Jeff Bernthal, Updated at 11:16am, April 4, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS, MO (KTVI)- St. Louis Metropolitan Police are investigating a triple shooting in South St. Louis.  One person is dead and a suspect is in custody.  Police identify the victim as 27-year-old Darryl Simms of East St. Louis.  He was shot in the chest, back and side.
According to police, the shooting happened at 6:28a.m. Saturday, near the back door of a duplex in the 5200 block of Jamieson.  Police say the victims were outside and the suspect was inside the apartment.
One of the victims is in critical condition after being shot in the upper torso.  The third victim was shot in the arm and side and is in serious condition.  A 4th person was with three who were shot.  Police say the suspect knew at least one of the victims.  The do not believe this was a random act of violence.
“I never thought something like this would happen on Jamieson,” said one resident who heard the gunshots.  “I was shocked.”
James Glock lives near the scene of the shooting.  He says recent reports of violence leave him feeling less optimistic about the future.
“I don’t think it’s every going to change, or at least not in my lifetime,” said Glock.  “But always hope.”
Police have not revealed whether there was a clear motive for the shooting, or whether more arrests could be made.  As of Saturday evening, the suspect had not been charged.​

38.585241
-90.306991









Filed in: News Topics: Delor, Jamieson, shooting, st louis, three wounded 













 






Watch FOX 2 Now!
Watch our newscasts from the comfort of your phone or computer 24/7.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

2 dead, 3 injured in St. Louis area shootings


News

Violent night in north St. Louis


News

3 killed, 2 wounded in three separate shootings across St. Louis


News

St. Louis tallies 75th homicide overnight, at least four others shot


News

Murder charges filed in south city triple shooting



 


AM Show

Two men shot, killed on Mother’s Day in St. Louis


News

1 dead, 5 injured in 3 separate double shootings across St. Louis


News

1 dead, 2 shot in North St. Louis County


News

Multiple shootings in St. Louis leave 9 people wounded


News

Suspect charged in Saturday’s deadly shooting in South St. Louis



 


News

Woman shot overnight in south St. Louis


News

Shooting wounds two in north St. Louis Saturday night


News

Man killed in North St. Louis at gathering






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















