Deputy charged in Tulsa police shooting | FOX2now.com 
Deputy charged in Tulsa police shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Deputy charged in Tulsa police shooting

Posted 4:17 pm, April 13, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 



TULSA, OK — The Tulsa County deputy who shot and killed a man instead of using his Taser now faces a manslaughter charge.
Video shows Reserve Deputy Robert Bates announcing he is going to deploy his Taser after an undercover weapons sting on April 2, but then shooting Eric Courtney Harris in the back with a handgun.
In a written statement, Tulsa County District Attorney Stephen A. Kunzweiler said Bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter involving culpable negligence, defined by Oklahoma law as “the omission to do something which a reasonably careful person would do, or the lack of the usual ordinary care and caution in the performance of an act usually and ordinarily exercised by a person under similar circumstances and conditions.”
Investigators’ efforts to defend Bates and the other deputies involved in the arrest have sparked a mounting chorus of criticism online.
Police say Bates thought he pulled out his Taser but “inadvertently” fired his gun. They’ve painted Harris as a dangerous, possibly PCP-addled illegal gun dealer who had recently sold methamphetamine to undercover police and who fled police that day in such a way as to give the impression that he had a gun in his waistband.
Though Harris was later determined to be unarmed, Sgt. Jim Clark of the Tulsa Police Department, who has been brought in to review the case, excused the behavior of Bates and the officer who is heard cursing at Harris.
Clark said Bates, who was also one of the department’s benefactors, was the “victim” of something called “slip and capture,” where in a high-stress situation, you intend to do one thing and instead do something else.
By Catherine E. Shoichet and Jason Morris
Chandler Friedman and Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to this report.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News 













 






Watch FOX 2 Now!
Watch our newscasts from the comfort of your phone or computer 24/7.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Memo: Violations benefited Tulsa reserve deputy


News

Deputy who shot man in Tulsa will turn himself in


News

Oklahoma sheriff puts restriction on reserve deputy program


News

Deputies in Tulsa shooting reassigned after threats, disturbing video surfaces


News

Did volunteer deputy in Tulsa shooting pay to be a cop?



 


News

Reserve deputy in Tulsa shooting says he did required training


News

Tulsa sheriff’s employees were told to forge Bates’ training records


News

Video released of deadly shooting in Tulsa after police chase


News

Police video shows killing of black Oklahoma suspect


News

Tulsa shooting casts spotlight on volunteer police programs



 


News

5 things to know for your New Day — Tuesday, April 14


News

5 things to know for your New Day — Friday, May 1


News

Teen charged in deaths of rural northwest Missouri couple






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















