Police release surveillance photos of armed robbery suspects | FOX2now.com 
Police release surveillance photos of armed robbery suspects | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Police release surveillance photos of armed robbery suspects

Posted 9:54 pm, May 1, 2015, by Anthony Kiekow 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS (KTVI) – Investigators with the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department released surveillance photos Friday of suspects in two terrifying armed robberies at businesses in south St. Louis.
Surveillance cameras captured the first suspect in action at the Family Dollar on South Jefferson. He stormed into the business just after 8:55 p.m. Thursday, demanding money and pointing a gun at the cashier. After stealing an undisclosed amount of cash, the suspect slipped away on foot.
Police said he was a black male, ages 18 to 25 years old, about 5’7” tall and weighing around 140 pounds. He was wearing a Chicago Bulls hat, long sleeve shirt, black shorts, black shoes, and he was carrying a Nike bag.
The AutoZone on South Kingshighway was also targeted by crooks Thursday night. It happened half an hour earlier at 8:25 p.m. The three armed suspects in the AutoZone robbery were also caught on camera. However, their faces were covered, so police are hoping their clothing leads helps officers locate the suspects.
The first suspect was wearing jeans, a red shirt, gray sweatshirt, gloves, white shoes, and a white mask over his face. The second suspect was wearing a blue sweatshirt with a gray hood and black shoes. The third suspect was wearing a dark blue hooded jacket and black shoes with a white stripe on the heel.
Police said the suspects demanded cash from the registers and safe. They also forced two customers to their knees and swiped their purses. All three escaped after the robbery.
No one was hurt during either robbery.
Anyone with information on either case is encouraged to call CrimeStoppers at 866-371-TIPS.

38.627003
-90.199404




Filed in: News Topics: armed robbery, Crime 













 






Watch FOX 2 Now!
Watch our newscasts from the comfort of your phone or computer 24/7.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Police hope surveillance photos will help identify robbers


News

Police search for man who robbed Moto Mart in north St. Louis


News

South City woman carjacked in her garage


News

Man shot in Penrose neighborhood during armed robbery


News

Official: Police shoot, kill suspect in south Chicago suburb



 


News

Violent night in north St. Louis


News

St. Louis man charged in Belleville armed robbery


News

Police nab suspect after winding chase through St. Louis


News

Man shot in armed robbery in north city neighborhood


News

Two men wanted for armed robbery of North County loan store



 


News

Steak N’ Shake robbed in Bellefontaine Neighbors


News

Police investigating officer- involved shooting in St. Louis


News

Family Dollar robbed in North St. Louis County






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















