Family of woman shot by police disputes their story | FOX2now.com 
Family of woman shot by police disputes their story | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Family of woman shot by police disputes their story

Posted 9:59 pm, May 11, 2015, by Andy Banker 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS (KTVI) – A is family outraged after a loved one was shot by St. Louis Police, Friday night. That woman, Jennifer Morgan-Tyra, 39, is the wife of a St. Louis City sheriff’s deputy and the daughter of a former police officer. Her family said she was hospitalized on life-support Monday night with at least 11 bullet wounds.
She’d also been charged with 2 felony crimes:  assault on a law enforcement officer and armed criminal action. She was shot while actually trying to help police, her family said.
Mike Morgan told a FOX 2 crew how things unfolded in his kitchen in the 4200 block of Chippewa. The home was condemned Monday, with Morgan given 10 days to get out. It remained it substantial disrepair when Morgan reenacted the events of Friday night.
“She had the gun in a downward position,” he said of his sister.
He said a long-time female acquaintance with a record of drug use and prostitution was in his home refusing to leave.  She was threatening him with a screwdriver, he said. He called his sister to help him get the woman to leave. Morgan-Tyra pulled a gun on the woman, he said. Both women called police for help. Two officers responded.
Morgan-Tyra was on the cell phone with her husband while holding the gun in her other hand, Mike Morgan said. The two officers ordered her to drop the weapon. Mike Morgan told her to drop it. So did her husband, he said.
“She had the gun in a downward position.  She’s hesitating,” he recalled.
Police opened fire as she dropped the gun and began raising her hands, he said.
“She would have never pointed a gun at an officer.  She just didn’t drop that gun fast enough,” said Morgan-Tyra’s sister, Rebecca Morgan.  “As she dropped the gun out of her hand they started shooting her… she went to turn … to step out of the way because I guess she’s thinking they could go in the room and get the intruder.  They started shooting her.”
She did not witness the shooting but said the family was a strong “police family”, always supportive of police officers.
She was outraged by the initial police version of what happened: that it appeared only one officer shot Morgan-Tyra only one time when Morgan-Tyra raised her gun toward two officers; that Morgan-Tyra tried to fire her weapon but it misfired.
Still police repeatedly stressed the initial report was only “preliminary” with emphasis on the word “appears” in describing the events.
A police source now confirms at least 7 shots were fired by police; that a bullet was lodged in Morgan-Tyra’s weapon but it was unclear if she fired it.
There was little doubt the officers sensed an imminent threat of great bodily harm to all of those around Morgan-Tyra and were forced to make a split-second decision, police sources said.
Morgan-Tyra’s family conceded it was a tense, confusing scene but felt police were too quick to shoot.
“Had they shot me, oh well – but they shot my sister,” lamented Mike Morgan, who still copes with the effects of brain trauma from a blow to his head at work 7 years ago.
Rebecca Morgan said the initial police account only added to the family’s pain.
“It’s not right they’re making my sister out as some kind of crazy person trying to kill cops,” Rebecca Morgan said.  “I want the truth.  I can’t believe they shot my sister up with all those bullet holes.  Now they’re going to try to sweep it under the carpet…my hearts broken.  Police officers were my heroes, not anymore.”
A police source said the home was a known “flop-house” with keys left outside for people to come and go.
Police said along with the initial police investigation, the Circuit Attorney, and the department’s new Force Investigative Unit, would be following up to see if the shooting was justified.
The two officers involved are on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigations.


Related stories

Police shoot armed woman in south St. Louis




Filed in: News Topics: distrubance call, family, shooting, st louis police 













 






STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

New witness comes forward in controversial police shooting


News

Charges filed against woman who shot at police officers


News

Linda McLaughlin’s disappearance detailed by police


News

Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer


News

Family frustrated south St. Louis murder suspect not under arrest



 


News

Family of missing Sunset Hills woman issues statement on divorce


News

Police: Ferguson woman found shot to death in car


News

Family issues new plea for safe return of missing Sunset Hills grandmother


News

Florissant teen gunned down in Spanish Lake


News

Missing Sunset Hills woman’s car located



 


News

Woman shot overnight in south St. Louis


News

Four wounded in overnight shootings


News

Multiple shootings in St. Louis leave 9 people wounded






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















