Nine Killed in Shooting at Black Church in Charleston - The New York Times 



Nine Killed in Shooting at Black Church in Charleston - The New York Times







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









U.S.|Nine Killed in Shooting at Black Church in Charleston
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1dLv95b




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





U.S. 
Nine Killed in Shooting at Black Church in Charleston

By JASON HOROWITZ, NICK CORASANITI and ASHLEY SOUTHALLJUNE 17, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






Police officers outside the church.

Credit
            Richard Ellis/European Pressphoto Agency        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
CHARLESTON, S.C. — A white gunman opened fire Wednesday night at a historic black church in downtown Charleston, S.C., killing nine people before fleeing and setting off an overnight manhunt, the police said.At a news conference with Charleston’s mayor early Thursday, the police chief, Greg Mullen, called the shooting a hate crime.“It is unfathomable that somebody in today’s society would walk into a church while they are having a prayer meeting and take their lives,” he said.The police said the gunman walked into the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church around 9 p.m. and began shooting.Eight people died at the scene, Chief Mullen said. Two people were taken to the Medical University of South Carolina, and one of them died on the way.“Obviously, this is the worst night of my career,” Chief Mullen said. “This is clearly a tragedy in the city of Charleston.”City officials did not release information about the victims and did not say how many people were in the church during the shooting. Hospital officials declined to comment.
Photo






A man knelt across the street outside the Emanuel A.M.E. Church after a shooting on Wednesday in Charleston, S.C.

Credit
            Wade Spees/The Post and Courier, via Associated Press        


Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. said the city was offering a reward for information leading to the arrest of the gunman, whom the police described as a clean-shaven white man about 21 years old who was wearing a gray sweatshirt, bluejeans and Timberland boots. Chief Mullen described him as “extremely dangerous.”“To walk into a church and shoot someone, is out of pure hatred,” the mayor said as he walked away after the news conference.Law enforcement officers from the F.B.I.; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division; and other agencies were assisting. Chief Mullen said the police were tracking the gunman with police dogs.Around 10:45 p.m., police officers escorted a man in handcuffs who appeared to match the attacker’s description. But officials said later that they were still searching for the gunman.In the first hours after the shooting, the police blocked reporters and passers-by from approaching the church, opposite a Marriott Courtyard hotel, because of a bomb threat. Many among the cluster of media workers were political reporters in town to cover campaign events of Hillary Rodham Clinton and Jeb Bush.
Photo






Worshipers down the street from the church on Wednesday.

Credit
            David Goldman/Associated Press        


Helicopters with searchlights circled overhead, and a group of pastors knelt and prayed across the street.“The question is, ‘Why God?’,” a man wearing a shirt bearing the name of the Empowerment Missionary Baptist Church said during the prayer.Later, a group of church leaders gathered at the corner of Calhoun and King Streets, a few blocks from where the shooting occurred, and held an impromptu news conference. Tory Fields, a member of the Charleston County Ministers Conference, said he believed the suspect had targeted the victims because of their race.“It’s obvious that it’s race,” he said. “What else could it be? You’ve got a white guy going into an African-American church. That’s choice. He chose to go into that church and harm those people. That’s choice.”
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
The church is one of the nation’s oldest black churches. The pastor, the Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, is a state senator. It was not clear whether he was at the church at the time of the shooting.
Continue reading the main story
















17


Charleston


52


Aquarium


Shooting
at church


17


30


30


1 mile


Emanuel
A.M.E.
Church









 


JUNE 18, 2015
            By The New York Times; aerial image by Pictometry        


The Gothic Revival church was built in 1891 and is considered a historically significant building, according to the National Park Service.The congregation was formed by black members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church who broke away “over disputed burial ground,” according to the website of the National Park Service.In 1822, one of the church’s co-founders, Denmark Vesey, tried to foment a slave rebellion in Charleston, the church’s website says. The plot was foiled by the authorities and 35 people were executed, including Mr. Vesey.The church houses the oldest black congregation south of Baltimore, the Park Service said.Gov. Nikki R. Haley said in a statement that she and her family were praying for the victims.“While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we’ll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another,” the governor said. “Please join us in lifting up the victims and their families with our love and prayers.”Late Wednesday, the campaign staff of Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida who is seeking the Republican nomination for president, said he was canceling appearances planned for Thursday in Charleston because of the shooting. Mrs. Clinton was in Charleston on Wednesday, but an aide said she had left the city before the shooting.


Jason Horowitz and Nick Corasaniti reported from Charleston, and Ashley Southall from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on June 18, 2015, on page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: South Carolina Police Search for Shooter at Black Church.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












