Watch President Obama Sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at Eulogy for Reverend Killed in Charleston Shooting | whotv.com 
Watch President Obama Sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at Eulogy for Reverend Killed in Charleston Shooting | whotv.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: SoundOff 

WHO-HD Channel 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






whotv.com

 Menu

News
Mega Doppler-S
Sports
On 13
Contests
Events







Weather 

84°







84°


Low 75°
High 93°





Mon


					76°  97°
					


Tue


					73°  94°
					


Wed


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 Latest Severe Weather Watches and Warnings						








 







Watch President Obama Sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at Eulogy for Reverend Killed in Charleston Shooting

Posted 2:47 pm, June 26, 2015, by CNN, Updated at 02:57pm, June 26, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleEmailRedditTumblr 



WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama on Friday eulogized the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, one of the victims in last week’s church massacre, calling him a “man of God who lived by faith.”
“We are here today to remember a man of God who lived by faith,” Obama said. “A man who believed in things not seen. A man who believed there were better days ahead, off in the distance. A man of service who persevered knowing full well he would not receive all those things he was promised, because he believed his efforts would provide a better life for those who followed.”
The President’s remarks both memorialized the victims and touched upon the current controversy surrounding the Confederate flag and what he said was a need for more gun control in the wake of the tragedy.
“By taking down that flag we express God’s grace,” he said.
Obama finished his remarks by breaking into song, joining the assembled in a rendition of “Amazing Grace.”
Friday’s funeral service for Pinckney isn’t the first time Obama delivered a high-profile eulogy, and with a year and a half remaining in office, it may not be the last.
But when the President stood in historic downtown Charleston to remember the slain pastor and eight others shot down in their church last week, his speech moved beyond just grief for the victims — Obama stepped directly into a national conversation about race in which he plays a central role.
The President, first lady Michelle Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, a bipartisan host of high-level members of Congress and Hillary Clinton headed to TD Arena for the memorial service a week after a 21-year-old man opened fire at a Bible study inside Charleston’s Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.
The shooter declared he was there to “kill black people,” and an online manifesto attributed to him contained white supremacist screeds.
Obama, responding to the shooting hours into its aftermath, said the attack “raises questions about a dark part of our history” and called racism “a particular threat to our democracy and our ideals.”
Later, speaking during a podcast interview, he candidly addressed new questions about American racism prompted by the attack, using the N-word to explain that suggestions the country has been “cured” of racism are misguided.
The shooting in Charleston left Obama “shaken,” according to Rep. James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat who spoke with Obama the morning after the incident.
Unlike past times Obama has confronted an act of violence, he knew the highest profile victim of the Charleston shooting personally. Obama met Pinckney as an early supporter of his 2008 presidential bid. Biden met the pastor and state lawmaker less than a year ago at a prayer breakfast in the state capital.
That personal connection differentiated Friday’s eulogy from the funerals Obama keynoted after previous shootings. So, too, are the renewed questions on race spurred by the shooter’s apparent motivations.
Around the country, traditional symbols of the Confederacy have come under renewed scrutiny, including the Confederate flag that flies at the South Carolina State House.
Obama himself used some of his bluntest language to date on race during an interview with comedian Marc Maron on Friday, saying that just because the N-word is no longer used frequently in public, “that’s not the measure of whether racism still exists or not.”
The moment was a distant cry from the earlier days of Obama’s presidency, when he studiously avoided discussing race or the implications of his election to office.
“I think that the President has grown very weary of having to circumvent these issues, which a lot of people thought was the appropriate thing for him to do as President of the United States,” Clyburn said. “But I think he has reached a conclusion that he needs to meet this issue head-on.”
Ryan Julison, who is a spokesman for Walter Scott’s family, told CNN “The family of Walter Scott will attend today’s funeral for Reverend Pinckney. They want to show the same support to the community that the community showed to them.”



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: Barack Obama, Charleston Church Shooting 













 






 Follow Channel 13 News on Twitter
 @WHOhd    Follow #13Now







 

 


Popular



Widow Shocked to See Husband’s Death Featured on Reality Show



Woman Reveals Comment Allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle That Led to Raid



Waukee Schools Superintendent Has Message for Governor, Legislature







 


Latest News



FaceOFF: Surprising to See Monte Morris Cut from U.S. Pan American Games Team



What’s Bugging Andy: Online Petition to Keep Adventureland Log Ride



I Think: Major League Baseball All-Star Game Needs Fixing



Former SoundOFF “Intern” Harrison Barnes Asks for Higher Final Grade after Winning NBA Title





 












News

Obama Set to Eulogize Pastor in Charleston Shooting


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina


News

Confederate Flag’s Half-Century at South Carolina Capitol Ends Friday


News

Charleston Shooting Victim Funerals Begin, As Confederate Flag Falls in Other States


News

‘A Man of Character': Obama Delivers Emotional Eulogy for Beau Biden



 


News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call a Hate Crime


News Politics

Wisconsin Man Threatens to Kill President Barack Obama


News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images of Roof


News Politics

Why Obama’s N-Word Was Shocking


News

Charleston Church Shooting: Questions Swirl Around Suspect Dylann Roof



 


News

Obama and Castro Meet, Launch New Era of U.S.-Cuba Ties


News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


News

No Plans for Tighter Security at Des Moines Church Following Charleston Shooting






 





Mobile Apps13WarnMe Weather iPhone App
Android App
News iPhone & iPad App
Severe Weather Android App
Severe Weather iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1801 Grand Ave. Des Moines, IA 50309  •
		Copyright © 2015, WHO		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “whotv.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,326 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















