2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody | fox13now.com 
2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: Sports Page 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

81°







81°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					67°  91°
					


Tue


					66°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody

Posted 10:55 am, May 10, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (6 images)





Inline



 




By Joe Sutton and Ben Brumfield

CNN


(CNN) — Two police officers were shot dead in Mississippi late Saturday. It was the first time in 30 years that an officer was killed in the line of duty in Hattiesburg, the mayor said.
Officers Benjamin J. Deen, 34, and Liquori Tate, 24, were making a traffic stop when they were shot, Mayor Johnny DuPree said.
They were taken to a hospital, but did not survive.
“The men and women who go out every day to protect us, the men and women who go out every day to make sure that we are safe, were turned on tonight,” DuPree said.
Police have apprehended two suspects, Marvin Banks and Curtis Banks, he said.
After the shooting, the suspects stole a police vehicle, which they used to flee. It was later found abandoned, according to CNN affiliate WDAM. The two men both have criminal records.
Police also took a woman into custody who was with the suspects at the time of the shooting, WDAM reported. They have not said whether she was involved. DuPree told CNN a third suspect was taken into custody, but did not disclose the gender.
Deen was named the city’s officer of the year in 2012, according to The Clarion-Ledger in Jackson, Mississippi. Tate had recently graduated from the police academy.
Deen leaves behind a wife and two children. Tate was not married and had no children, DuPree said.
After visiting the crime scene, the mayor went to the hospital, where he tended to family members until early Sunday.
“You have to search for words you say to family members how much we love them; we are here to support them,” he said. The city is making grief counselors available to the slain men’s fellow officers.
DuPree vowed that the perpetrators of the attack would face justice.
Police in Oxford, Mississippi, sent out condolences in a tweet.
“Both Hattiesburg Police Officers have died. Terrible. Prayers to the entire community and families,” it read.


CNN’s Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.


The-CNN-Wire
™ & © 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.




Filed in: News Topics: 2 mississippi officerrs shot, shooting 













 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Neighbor who dialed 911 speaks after suspect fatally shot by police responding to child abuse call


News

Suspect in New Orleans cop killing had access to guns in patrol car, police say


News

LAPD chief concerned if officer’s fatal shooting of unarmed man was ‘justified’


News

71 arrested after acquittal of Cleveland police Officer Michael Brelo


News

Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home



 


News

Video released of deadly shooting in Tulsa; police say deputy accidentally used firearm


News

Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.


News

Police: Cincinnati man calls 911 on self, kills responding officer


News

Suspect in NYPD cop shooting faces attempted murder charges


News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video



 


News

NYPD officer Brian Moore, who was shot in head, dies


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City


News

Dallas police HQ shooting: Suspect killed during standoff






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,102 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















