Explosives Found, Suspect Cornered after Gunfire Targets Dallas Police HQ | FOX40 
Explosives Found, Suspect Cornered after Gunfire Targets Dallas Police HQ | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Explosives Found, Suspect Cornered after Gunfire Targets Dallas Police HQ

Posted 5:46 AM, June 13, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


DALLAS, Texas (CNN)–
At least one attacker opened fire on Dallas’ police headquarters early Saturday, riddling windows and police cars before fleeing in a van to a suburban restaurant parking lot, where officers surrounded the vehicle in a standoff that has lasted for hours.
Officers exchanged gunfire with the attacker or attackers at both sites, and as dawn broke in Texas — hours after the attack began at 12:20 a.m. (1:20 a.m. ET) — they still were watching the vehicle and negotiating with the driver in the parking lot of a Jack in the Box restaurant in Hutchins.
No injuries were immediately reported, but police are dealing with a parallel threat they discovered after the attack began — at least two pipe bombs that were found outside the police headquarters.
One of the bombs exploded as a bomb-squad robot tried to move it. Police posted a picture on Twitter that appeared to show that vehicles were damaged in the blast.
The bomb squad detonated the second device. By 7 a.m. local time, police said they determined there was no longer a threat at the headquarters building, but police still were searching the area for more explosives.
Parts of the initial attack were caught on video by several people nearby, including residents of an apartment building across the street.
Witnesses told police they believed more than one person opened fire on the police building from various locations, and the vehicle appeared to be an armored van.
“There might be up to four suspects,” Police Chief David Brown said.
Windows shattered at police headquarters, and bullets pierced squad cars.
Police returned fire and gave chase as perhaps one or more suspects jumped into the van, Brown said. Brown said it appeared one person appeared not to make it on board in time, but it wasn’t clear whether that person was arrested.
Security has been beefed up at Dallas police stations and at Dallas City Hall, he said.
SWAT team negotiates

The chase ended at the restaurant parking lot in Hutchins.
A SWAT team was negotiating with a suspect in the vehicle who gave the name James Boulware. Police said that they cannot independently confirm that it is the suspect’s real identity.
Police found a previous record of domestic violence by a man under that name. The suspect told police that he was angry because they took away his child and labeled him a terrorist.
He threatened to blow them up and broke off negotiations, Brown said.
At one point, police used a .50-caliber rifle to “disable” the vehicle, police said.
Investigators are looking into whether a van sold in Newnan, Georgia, on eBay last week may be the van used in the Dallas attack, a source familiar with the investigation said. They are investigating, among other things, who may have purchased the vehicle.
Former Marine captured video

The crackling sound of the shootout got the attention of former Marine Rick Birt, who lives near the police headquarters.
“We heard loud noises, my wife asked if I thought they were shots,” he said. “I went over to the window and put one of them up. And we heard more shots being fired, and I turned to my wife and said, ‘Yeah, that’s definitely gunfire.'”
He got his cell phone and recorded video. After the van fled, police informed him and his wife that they had to evacuate their building.
“They’ve instructed us that we may be out of our home for a while,” he said.
Police had discovered the suspicious bags right across from it.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News 













 






Circle FOX40 on G+!
Join the conversation by circling FOX40 on Google+







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












National and World News News

Dallas Police HQ Attack: Suspect Believed Killed During Standoff


Local News

Man Arrested After Explosive Device Found During Tracy Traffic Stop


National and World News News

70 Killed in Kenyan University Shooting


National and World News

Judge Says of Dallas Suspect: ‘I Knew He Was Going to do Something’


National and World News

Officials: Two Gunmen Killed Outside Muhammad Cartoon Contest



 


National and World News

Police: Nine Dead in Texas Shooting Involving Rival Biker Gangs


National and World News

Capitol Police Destroy Pressure Cooker in Suspicious Car on National Mall


Local News

Business 80 Traffic Diverted after Police Find, Detonate Pipe Bomb


National and World News

Security Guard Killed During Shooting at U.S. Census Bureau


Local News

Attempted Traffic Stop Ends in Car Dealership Wreck



 


National and World News

Texas Shooting Suspect Linked Himself to ISIS in Tweets


Local News

Alert the Bomb Squad: Suspicious Package Turns Out to be 8-Track Tape


Local News

Fatal Drive-by Shooting in South Sacramento Leaves One Dead






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















