Suspect sought for shooting at occupied vehicle in Burlington | myfox8.com 
Suspect sought for shooting at occupied vehicle in Burlington | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Suspect sought for shooting at occupied vehicle in Burlington

Posted 3:40 pm, April 7, 2015, by Paul Choate 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Dennis Lee Mebane  


×
Suspect sought for shooting at occupied vehicle in Burlington


 Dennis Lee Mebane 


BURLINGTON, N.C. — Police are searching for a man accused of making death threats and shooting into an occupied vehicle.
Dennis Lee Mebane, 51, of Burlington, is wanted by police for communicating threats, discharging a weapon into an occupied vehicle and assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill.
At about 3:15 a.m. Tuesday, officers responded to a report of shots fired in the 800 block of Chandler Avenue.
Officers met with a female victim who said she had been giving Mebane a ride. She told officers Mebane said he was “going to hurt someone and some would die.” The victim reported that Mebane also threatened to kill her.
The victim said Mebane was in the back seat and that she observed that he was armed with a handgun. She said she dropped off a passenger in the 800 block of Chandler Avenue and Mebane got out of the back seat to get into the front seat.
The victim drove away, leaving Mebane in the 800 block of Chandler Avenue. She said Mebane then began to fire shots at her vehicle as she left, striking the vehicle twice.
Officers have so far been unable to locate Mebane.
Anyone with information is asked to call Crimestoppers at (336) 229-7100.

36.095692
-79.437799




Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

One dead, one injured in Burlington shooting


News

1 arrested, 1 sought in Burlington homicide


News

Suspect killed after opening fire on officers outside Dallas police headquarters


News

Shooting suspect still sought after wild afternoon in Greensboro neighborhood


News

Arizona officer who drove into suspect justified, chief says



 


News

Man accused of leading deputy on chase in Burlington, shooting patrol car, crashing into another


News

Burlington man accused of stabbing, killing brother on Fourth of July


News

Man charged in robbery, kidnapping at Burlington convenience store


News

Escaped female inmate captured in Burlington


News

Man arrested in connection with Winston-Salem home break-in where children nearly shot



 


News

Marine vet says he could ‘have been just another unsolved murder’ after Winston-Salem gunfight


News

2 injured in shooting in Greensboro


News

Burlington police searching for hit-and-run driver






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















