Police ask help finding suspect accused of stealing money at South Jordan Walmart | fox13now.com 
Police ask help finding suspect accused of stealing money at South Jordan Walmart | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police ask help finding suspect accused of stealing money at South Jordan Walmart

Posted 11:12 am, July 9, 2015, by Ashton Edwards, Updated at 11:14am, July 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 


South Jordan PD looking for woman accused of theft.
SOUTH JORDAN, Utah – Officers are asking the public for help identifying a woman they say was involved in a theft at Walmart back in April.
Authorities said a victim accidentally left an envelope with cash at the register after paying at the Walmart at 11328 S. Jordan Gateway.
The suspect was caught on surveillance video taking the envelope and leaving the store.
South Jordan Police said the suspect is a Caucasian woman with dark, medium-length hair.
They said the woman appears to be in her 30s, about 5’6″ and 180 pounds.
She was wearing a white patterned shirt, blue jeans and was pushing a boy in a cart.
Officers said they would like to speak to anyone with information at (801) 840-4000 referencing case 15F004641.
Callers can remain anonymous.

40.546194
-111.901355




Filed in: News Topics: crime, south jordan 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



 



			5 comments		




 

trevor

That’s definitely a Great Value camera… You would think Wal-Mart could afford a better one.




							July 9, 2015 at 12:11 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Tina

That’s not theft that’s finders keepers ppl. If I find money and I don’t turn it in…like most ppl wouldn’t …. that makes me a jerk not a thief. That’s a shotty thing to do by not being honest and turning it in. Shes a dishonest person not a thief. She didn’t steal a purse or something from the store and personally in my opinion I feel this is abuse of surveillance video. Yes even if it was mine I’d think that because I feel we need to use that for real thieves and kidnappers etc.




							July 9, 2015 at 1:16 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Ry

Tina, you’re an idiot. This didn’t happen out on the sidewalk, this happened at a cash register inside walmart.  Whether it was an envelope full of another customers money, or it was money from the register a cashier left out, it’s still 100% theft.  I’m guessing your moral compass is pretty much broken,  so there isn’t much of a need to go any further with mocking your stupidity. Good luck with your further incarcerations throughout your life Tina.




							July 11, 2015 at 8:20 am						

Reply
Report comment









 

Jamie

If this happened in April why are we just hearing about it now?




							July 9, 2015 at 3:11 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Ry

Tina, you’re an idiot. This didn’t happen out on the sidewalk, this happened at a cash register inside walmart.  Whether it was an envelope full of another customers money, or it was money from the register a cashier left out, it’s still 100% theft.  I’m guessing your moral compass is pretty much broken,  so there isn’t much of a need to go any further with mocking your stupidity. Good luck with your further incarcerations throughout your life Tina.




							July 11, 2015 at 8:19 am						

Reply
Report comment













 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody


News

Citizen takes action, leads South Jordan police to suspect who has at least 127 alleged victims


News

Suspect caught on camera stealing $2,000 of packages from Utah home in broad daylight


News

Police searching for car theft suspect who caused 5-car crash in West Jordan


News

Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding



 


News

Police: Suspects break smoke shop employee’s face with rock, rob store


News

Final suspect in violent smoke shop robbery turns self in, police thank public for tips


News

2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan


News

Missing driver from South Jordan rollover found hiding in trunk of realtor’s vehicle, police say



 


News

Police: Two in custody, one on run after smoke shop employee hit with rock


News

Mom who reported child abduction now accused of false police report, suspect released


News

‘Polygamous ninja’ Raven Blackwing sentenced to prison after break-in, sword fight






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts








































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















