Police seek vehicle, 2 suspects after car stolen at gunpoint in Holladay | fox13now.com 
Police seek vehicle, 2 suspects after car stolen at gunpoint in Holladay | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police seek vehicle, 2 suspects after car stolen at gunpoint in Holladay

Posted 3:00 pm, May 1, 2015, by Mark Green 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Police seek vehicle, 2 suspects after car stolen at gunpoint in Holladay


 


HOLLADAY, Utah – Police are seeking two suspects and a stolen vehicle after a woman was carjacked by a man with a gun late Thursday night outside of a bowling alley in Holladay.
The woman left Olympus Hills Bowling Lanes, 4015 Wasatch Boulevard, just after 10 p.m. Thursday and she walked past a man and woman before sitting down in her car. Once seated, the man approached and put a gun in her face and demanded the car keys.
The victim suffered a cut on her lip as a result. Lt. Justin Hoyal of the Unified Police Department said things could have been worse but the woman did what they encourage citizens to do in such situations.
“The victim did everything right, complied with the suspects and wasn’t hurt any worse than just the cut on the lip,” Hoyal said.
The suspects were last observed traveling west toward Wasatch Boulevard. The vehicle is a gray Subaru Tribeca with Utah license plate C50 6HH. The suspects are a white male with facial hair who was dressed all in black and a Latina woman who was described as being short.
Anyone with information about the alleged crime or who sees the vehicle is asked to contact police. UPD can be reached by calling 801-743-7000.

40.684201
-111.794085




Filed in: News Topics: carjacking, robbery, theft, Unified Police Department 








			1 Comment		




 

bob

The right thing is to comply with criminals?  No.  The right thing is to shoot them in the face.




							May 2, 2015 at 12:33 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Two in custody, two outstanding, one injured after neighbors intervene in home burglary


News

Man swaps old shoes for new pair then hits, injures employee while escaping in vehicle


News

Man in stolen car flees officer, crashes into power pole in Taylorsville, police say


News

Shoplifting suspect evades officers during chase, rams squad car to escape


News

Intoxicated man arrested for allegedly breaking into WVC home, sexually assaulting woman inside



 


News

SLC police: officer shoots knife-wielding man after responding to woman’s screams


News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City


News

Man in custody after taking ex-girlfriend, her current boyfriend on wild ride in disputed vehicle


News

Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars


News

One dead in wrong-way crash in Magna



 


News

3 arrested after armed robbery suspects fleeing from police crash SUV in Ogden


News

Unified Police: Man, 18, stabbed brother, 36, over money


News

Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















