Home | World Vision
Home | World Vision








World Vision Magazine
            



Menu


 


 





Latest
In-Depth
Prayer
Where Are They Now?
From the President
Photos
Videos
 








Home				





 



'Love will win in the end.'
Is there hope for Solani? Join WV photographer Jon Warren in his latest Life Frames post as he returns to Bangladesh.
Photo by ©2014 Jon Warren/World Vision








Humanitarian news briefs, Jan. 19 


God Space 


Photo14 photos from 2014 











©2013 Daniel Mung/World Vision


 

Page turner
Photo


A girl in India is breaking barriers with the turn of each page.



 



Snow storm over Syria, Middle East
Video


Heavy snow and a strong winter storm are barreling through the Middle East, where World Vision is working in response to the Syria crisis. 




Help in the hard places: Crises of 2014
Photo


Disasters—natural and man-made—affected millions of people worldwide in 2014. Thanks to the generous support of donors, World Vision is responding to five major crises. Here’s how your money is helping families in need. 




Typhoon Haiyan: One year later, hope rises from devastation
Photo


One year of progress in rebuilding the Philippines following Typhoon Haiyan




WV staff in Ebola crisis fight to curb deadly virus 


In Sierra Leone, World Vision staff, working with government officials and other agencies, are trying to find ways to curb the deadly virus.











After a year of conflict, hunger and hardships in South Sudan 


Hope in hard places: Haiti 


PhotoDancing on a strong foundation 







Going the distance 


Running with heart 


7 Hungry Places 








 


One year on: Typhoon Haiyan recovery


World Vision has assisted more than 1 million people with relief items and programs that support their physical and emotional recovery.






 


World wastes, loses one-third of food supply


Each year about one-third of the world’s food intended for human consumption is wasted or lost, according to the U.N.











 


Evacuations ahead of Typhoon Hagupit save lives in the Philippines
Photo


The Philippines largely averted widespread catastrophe in the wake of Typhoon Hagupit, thanks in part to aid agency preparedness.






 


Playtime with Paolo


One man's passion thrives amid harsh realities in Bolivia.










Perfect in weakness 


Pneumonia, malnutrition, and diarrhea endanger children’s lives 


PhotoMarvel-ous! World Vision’s superheroes 


 


 

 





About World Vision magazine
Write the Editor
Donate Now
Sponsor a Child
Visit worldvision.org


Connect with World Vision Magazine
Facebook
Twitter


Copyright © 2015 by World Vision, Inc.



 





Receive a monthly round-up of our most popular stories right in your inbox.


Submit





Bring World Vision news and stories to your iPhone. Download our app.


 


