AmeriCares: $19.7 Million in Aid to the Philippines 
AmeriCares: $19.7 Million in Aid to the Philippines












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
$19.7 Million in Aid to the Philippines
Large scale response addresses immediate and long-term health needs









Tweet













														  
														April 22, 2014


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                











 Photo by Matthew McDermott







In the months since Typhoon Haiyan struck, AmeriCares has provided more than $19.7 million in aid to help meet the immediate needs of survivors and restore primary health care. 
Our Haiyan response team is now working with partners to restore and expand health services including the rebuilding and rehabilitation of dozens of damaged health facilities in some of the hardest hit areas, while continuing to distribute emergency aid and coordinate relief deliveries.
A new shipment totaling $1.3 million in medical aid was sent on April 11, containing antibiotics, antihistamines, pain relievers, and wound care supplies, as well as medications to treat diabetes and heart disease. The deliveries will help restock hospitals and health clinics in areas where the health system has been disrupted. In addition to aid shipments and health facility restoration, we are working with a partner to expand their mental health and psychosocial services programming for survivors on one of the islands most affected by the storm.  
“The restoration of health clinics, provision of psychosocial services, and shipments of medicines and medical supplies will help address the needs of disaster survivors  facing elevated health risks due to loss of homes, loss of livelihoods, and lack of access to health care in the aftermath of the storm,” said AmeriCares Vice President of Emergency Response Garrett Ingoglia.  







 Photo by Matthew McDermott.




Our teams have been active throughout the islands of Cebu, Samar, Leyte, and Panay, working with partners to coordinate aid deliveries to communities where access to health care has been severely hampered.  Our response to date includes:






Our Response:

$18.6 million in medical aid
including nearly 1 million course treatments of medicines

$1.1 million in project support
to restore and rehabilitate 67 damaged health facilities and expand health care services

Medical aid shipments:  A total of $18.6 million in medicines and supplies has been shipped from our warehouses in the United States and Amsterdam, including $2 million in medical aid provided to volunteer health care teams through our Medical Outreach Program. To date we have provided nearly 1 million course treatments of medicine. Medicines and supplies were provided to the Biliran Provincial Hospital, Tacloban Department of Health, RTR Hospita and Divine Word Hospital in Tacloban, Kananga Hospital in Leyte, and Benito Ebuen Airbase Hospital in Cebu, among many other health care facilities.

Medical team support: supporting the NYC Medics and International Medical Corps teams with medicines and supplies. The teams have provided emergency medical care to survivors in hard-to-reach Guiuan, isolated Homonhon Island and San Antonio, Samar.


Project Support: $1.1 million in funding to restore and rehabilitate 67 damaged health facilities, expand health care services in Capiz, provide mental health training in Leyte and Capiz, and purchase and distribute food, water, and relief supplies to displaced families at evacuation centers in hard-hit Samar and Cebu. We’ve been working side by side with partner International Organization for Migration to restore health services in Capiz: Five facilities in Capiz are complete, more than 20 in Leyte and Cebo are now underway.

The monstrous typhoon, known locally as Yolanda dealt a massive blow to the disaster-prone island nation on November 8, 2013 and is considered one of the strongest – if not the strongest – storm on record.
Since 1985, AmeriCares has delivered more than $240 million in humanitarian aid to the Philippines, including relief supplies for survivors of October’s Bohol earthquake. Other recent emergency responses include Typhoon Bopha in 2012, Typhoon Washi in 2011, back-to-back typhoons in 2009 and Typhoon Frank in 2008.











Featured Video: 
A Survival Story in the Midst of Devastation
					 As AmeriCares emergency response team works in towns and cities of the Philippines devastated by Typhoon Yolanda, individual stories unfold of courage and perseverance in the face of great loss. On the eastern coast, the town of Guiuan was completely destroyed. Local resident, Rafino tells us about the aftermath of the storm and the difficulties he is facing going forward.  Watch Video >>















Featured Video: 
Bringing Health and Healing to the Philippines 
					 On November 20, we traveled with a NYC Medics team to hard-hit Guiuan, providing medicines and supplies to support their mobile medical clinic.  In one 5-hour period, the team treated 161 patients. "AmeriCares has significantly increased our ability to provide care here," explained Robert Bristow, Medical Director for NYC Medics.  Watch Video >>






 




Map of AmeriCares Medical Aid to the Philippines



Map: Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) 




Read More
											  
											Donate Now
















Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

