
Death toll from Nepal earthquake passes 1,000: police | WORLD - geo.tv


Death toll from Nepal earthquake passes 1,000: police | WORLD - geo.tv






 








Geo News


Last updated
10 minutes
 ago


Mobile App

Geo Careers







Geo LIVE

Geo Urdu



RSS
Facebook
Twitter







Wednesday, May 06, 2015




















Home
latest
pakistan
world
business
sport
entertainment
health
amazing
videos
archive
feedback



Home
latest news
pakistan
world
business
sport
entertainment
health
amazing
archive










Trending ►

Nepal 


Pak-China 


Yemen 


Pak-BD ODI series


NA-246


Jang/Geo Response to Allegations




Trending
 Nepal  
 Pak-China  
 Yemen  
 Pak-BD ODI series 
 NA-246 











One dead, 3 hurt in terror attack on Kurram school ground
 


Europe’s obesity crisis expands to ‘enormous proportions’
 


Zimbabwe delegation confident in Pakistan security
 


Fehmida demands withdrawal of ‘fake FIRs’ against her husband
 


Water shortage worsens in Karachi 
 


President of Maldives arrives in Pakistan
 


Nine Zero raid: ATC extends judicial remand of Ubaid K2, 8 others till May 20
 


More than 200,000 road deaths a year in China
 


Russia’s space cargo ship to burn up in atmosphere Friday
 


Police end blockade of Zulfiqar Mirza's Badin residence 
 








Feautured Videos








Salman Khan jailed for 5 years 








PCB Chairman on team fitness








UK General Elections 








You Are Here:
Home » WORLD » Story detail








WORLD








Death toll from Nepal earthquake passes 1,000: police





Posted: April 25, 2015 - 210 PKT

|
Comment
  












KATHMANDU: A strong earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday with tremors being felt across South Asia. The death toll from the massive earthquake that devastated parts of Nepal has passed 1,000, according to police."The death toll has reached 1,170," Nepal police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam told AFP."Rescue efforts are underway," he added.A landmark nine-storey tower collapsed in Kathmandu after the massive earthquake hit the Nepalese capital, with several bodies seen at the site of the disaster, witnesses and television footage showed.Around a dozen bodies were taken away from the ruins of the Dharhara tower in the centre of the capital which sustained massive damage when the 7.9 magnitude quake struck at lunchtime, according to an AFP photographer at the sceneAt the main hospital in Kathmandu, people with broken limbs and arms were being rushed in for treatment. It was unclear how many people have been injured.Images posted on social media showed massive cracks in roads and buildings collapsed in Kathmandu. Images of Nepal earthquake posted on TwitterPosted by Geo News English on Saturday, April 25, 2015Climbers caught in earthquake on EverestClimbers on Mount Everest were caught in a deadly earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday, an AFP reporter at the mountain said, with reports of a major avalanche hitting the world´s highest peak. AFP Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly said she was caught in the earthquake that ripped though large parts of the country. "We got caught in an earthquake on Everest. We are both ok...snowing here so no choppers coming," an AFP reporter said in an SMS on approach to base camp while on assignment. Two experienced mountaineers reported that panic erupted at base camp which was full of climbing teams and had been "severely damaged", while one said the quake triggered a "huge avalanche". "Running for life from my tent. Unhurt. Many many people up the mountain," tweeted Romanian climber Alex Gavan who had been preparing to climb up nearby Lhotse, the world´s fourth highest mountain. Another climber Daniel Mazur said his team was trapped at camp one higher up the mountain in the wake of the earthquake. "A Massive earthquake just hit Everest. Basecamp has been severely damaged. Our team is caught in camp 1. Please pray for everyone," he also tweeted. Everest was hit by an avalanche last year that killed 16 guides and triggered an unprecedented shut-down of the mountain. Some 700 climbers are in Solukhumbhu district that includes Everest, with 300 thought to be at base camp itself, deputy superintendent of police Chandra Dev Rai said. "We are trying to reach them to see if they are safe, but the phones are not working," he told AFP from Solukhumbhu town through which climbers pass en route to the mountain.Pakistan offers assistancePakistan has expressed solidarity and offered to provide all possible assistance in the earthquake affected areas of Nepal and India. According to a Foreign Office statement, Pakistan’s ambassadors have been directed to contact governments of both countries. The Foreign Office added that NDMA was ready to provide assistance on a short notice. Tremors felt in South AsiaIn Pakistan tremors were felt in several cities including Peshawar, Islamabad and Lahore. Tremors were felt in Indian cities including Jaipur, Patna and New Delhi. The tremors were also felt in Bangladesh where Pakistani cricketers touring the country left their hotel rooms in panic. This is a developing story and will be updated


Print this story







Tweet























‹ Previous


Next ›







More from : WORLD









More than 200,000 road deaths a year in China







Russia’s space cargo ship to burn up in atmosphere Friday







Last chance for Cameron and Miliband to break election deadlock







Salman Khan granted bail after receiving 5-year prison sentence




Comments
 
 
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments.





































Featured Videos









Salman Khan jailed for 5 years 


Watch Now








PCB Chairman on team fitness


Watch Now








UK General Elections 


Watch Now



 



Social Counters


facebook Fans 
twitter Followers
Youtube134,036 Subscribers

 





            









































































Geo TV Network



Geo SuperSports Channel




Har Pal GeoGeo Entertainment






AAG TVAagey Barho







Multimedia

Video Gallery
Photo Gallery
Youtube
Geo Blog
Archive
Exam Results
Schedule
Transcriptions
Program Profiles
Election Cell
Geo News Live





corporate

About Us
Corporate Profile
Advertising Guide
Booking Status
Tariff
Faq (General)
Faq Distribution
Career
Geo Dost
Geo Talent
Geo vision





Syndication


RSS
POD Cast
Geo Mobile
Contact Us
Site Map
Feedback
Third-party Advertisement Policy










facebook
twitter
google plus
Email
rss

Copyright © GEO TV, All rights reserved


































