AmeriCares: New Emergency Aid to the Philippines 
AmeriCares: New Emergency Aid to the Philippines












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
New Emergency Aid to the Philippines
Medicines, emergency funding helps thousands of families in need









Tweet













														  
														March 8, 2013


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                











Aid distribution for Typhoon Bopha survivors  




"Although the Philippines is prone to storms and flooding disasters, Typhoon Bopha was one of the worst storms to ever hit this part of the country." ─AmeriCares Vice President of Emergency Response Garrett Ingoglia





To help survivors of Typhoon Bopha, the most powerful storm to hit the Philippines in the past year, AmeriCares awarded two emergency grants to partners working in hard-hit areas, delivered three medical aid shipments and deployed a relief team to the disaster zone.
The deadly storm slammed the southern region of the Philippines with high wind and rain on December 3, 2012, killing 1,100 people, displacing another 900,000, and causing widespread flooding and destruction.  Seasonal flooding after the typhoon has hampered relief efforts.  AmeriCares immediately awarded $15,000 in emergency funding to help provide food, blankets, soap, shampoo and other personal care items for 1,000 families displaced by the disaster.
A new emergency grant of $60,000 has been issued to our local partner, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) on Mindanao Island to help local health care providers deal with the influx of ill and injured patients by adding extra staff, restocking affected clinics and building a temporary health station.  The assistance will help an estimated 5,000 displaced survivors in the hard-hit area.
In addition to the grants, AmeriCares response included:

Emergency Medical Shipment: An air shipment of amoxicillin has been sent to our partner IOM. The antibiotic is crucial for fighting infections and diseases that can strike survivors in flood-affected areas. 
Emergency Air Shipment: More than two thousand pounds of medical aid and relief supplies including antibiotics, gastrointestinal medicines, wound care supplies and nutritional supplements was sent to our partner, the Sovereign Order of Malta, on January 6.  The shipment was distributed to response partners helping families in Mindanao Island and the Davao region.
Emergency Medical Module: On January 7, this shipment of crucial medicines and supplies was airlifted to partner IOM from our Amsterdam warehouse. The module contains enough medical aid to help 12 local health facilities replace dwindling stocks, and provide primary care 15,000 patients for three months.







 
		In addition to emergency supplies, children received toys from our partner.
	



In mid-January, an AmeriCares relief team spent several days in Mindanao visiting storm-damaged communities, assessing unmet health care needs, and working with local partners to distribute AmeriCares aid shipments. “It was inspiring to see the strength of these communities as they work to recover,” said Lauren Camp, senior associate on AmeriCares Asia Partnerships team.
 “Although the Philippines is prone to storms and flooding disasters, Typhoon Bopha was one of the worst storms to ever hit this part of the country,” said AmeriCares Vice President of Emergency Response Garrett Ingoglia. “The devastation is incredible and the need is great.”
About 20 typhoons hit the Philippines every year, often causing death and destruction.  Long before Bopha struck, AmeriCares worked with partners to be ready for disaster. Earlier in 2012, AmeriCares launched a global pre-positioning initiative, enabling quick response to Tropical Storm Saola in August, 2012.  In December, 2011, AmeriCares collaborated with partners to help thousands of victims of Tropical Storm Washi.



Donate Now



















Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

