AmeriCares: Philippines Typhoon Haiyan: 6-Months of Progress in Restoring Health for Survivors  
AmeriCares: Philippines Typhoon Haiyan: 6-Months of Progress in Restoring Health for Survivors 












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














News






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  Newsroom  News











More News



                                                                                                                           Philippines
Philippines Typhoon Haiyan: 6-Months of Progress in Restoring Health for Survivors 









Tweet













														  
														May 7, 2014


 TAGS:  
Asia-Eurasia , 
 Emergency , 
Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines 





                                                  .
												
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
												
										                                











 Photo by Matthew McDermott




“One of the difficulties in any kind of huge humanitarian response is getting the right resources at the right time and AmeriCares has done a great job getting on the ground quickly, identifying needs and getting the right medications here at the right time.” Rob Bristow, MD, MPH, Medical Director, NYC Medics





Our large-scale Typhoon Haiyan response – an effort that is still underway – has helped save lives, reduce suffering and restore health care services for countless survivors.  In the first 6 months, we have provided $19.7 million in medicines and supplies– enough to fill nearly 1 million prescriptions— and supported health services to protect the health of 1.3 million people.
“From the beginning of our response, we drew on our established network of strong local partners, collaborating with more than 100 organizations, including the Philippines Department of Health,” explained Garrett Ingoglia, our vice-president of emergency response.
Our response was immediate and strategic, with goals to create long-term, sustainable improvements in the health system and services:

Treat the injured and protect the health of survivors: Deliver medicines and supplies to frontline health workers.
Re-establish health services: Support medical teams caring for displaced survivors, transport urgent-care patients and provide equipment to re-open health centers.
Rebuild health facilities: Identify, prioritize and repair damaged clinics and health centers, and improve their ability to withstand future disasters.
Create healthy futures for affected communities: Introduce training to expand health workers’ skills in the areas of mental health and psychosocial support, malnutrition surveillance and disaster preparedness skills.











Featured Video: 
6 Months of Health and Progress in the Philippines
					 AmeriCares has been working with partners every day to help survivors of Typhoon Haiyan recover, rebuild and heal.   Watch Video >>





Immediate response
Before the storm struck, Our Filipino partners could immediately supply an estimated 19,000 survivors with critical medicines and relief supplies because we had pre-positioned materials in the Philippines months before this typhoon season.







 Photo by Matthew McDermott, All rights reserved.




Within 72 hours after the storm, AmeriCares team members were in the field guiding deliveries, coordinating relief and assessing damage to tar­get our response.
In the three weeks following the storm, AmeriCares had made 29 shipments to the disaster area, with enough medicine to fill 148,000 prescriptions and more than 250,000 units of medical supplies—total value more than $3 million.
In the first six months, we delivered crucial medicines to 44 health facilities in the Central Philippines, including enough medicine to fill 924,000 prescriptions.

Antibiotics for 107,000 prescriptions for people with acute infections.
Pain medications for 46,000 prescriptions.
Cardiovascular meds for prescriptions to treat 47,000 patients for three months
Diabetes prescriptions for 16,000 diabetic patients for three months
300,000 units of gauze, bandages and other wound dressings




Photo by Matthew McDermott, All Rights Reserved.



Restoring health services for survivors
The typhoon damaged or destroyed an estimated 2,000 health facilities.  Because continuity of health care is crucial to save lives and prevent the spread of disease, our team coordinated with the government and health partners to restore health services. In addition to medicines, our field team delivered equipment so staff of damaged health centers could treat survivors, and supported trans­portation services for patients and clinic staff, and salaries for health workers.

Generators for health centers to power refrigerators chilling critical vaccines.
Two health teams to serve thousands of survivors in Pontevedra and Pilar.
Transportation for patients to functioning health centers and hospitals.
Clean birth kits for damaged but functioning health center.

Repairing and rebuilding health centers










 Philippines Typhoon Haiyan 6-Month Report  (1.60 MB)
Six-Month Emergency Response Progress Report:
AmeriCares immediately launched a large-scale response
to save lives, reduce suffering and restore health care services for survivors—an effort that is still underway.




In collaboration with the Philippines Department of Health and local partners, AmeriCares is repairing 67 community health centers, mostly in hard-hit rural areas. Half of these facilities had suffered extensive dam­age and were closed, while the others were partially operational. We are providing medical equipment, replacing roofs and windows, reconnect­ing water and power and, when possible, build in measures to mitigate damage in future disasters. This work will restore health services for an estimated 1.3 million people.
67 health centers

40 rural health centers in the Western Visayas region
18 village health centers in Capiz, Leyte and Cebu provinces
Six rural health centers in Capiz, Leyte and Cebu provinces
Three urban clinics and hospitals in Capiz and Leyte provinces

“In just six months, we have made measureable progress towards restoring and enhancing health services,” said Ingoglia. “We are committed to working alongside our partners in the Philippines into 2015, and longer if need be.”





See Our Work:




Interactive Map Loads Here... please enable Javascript to use map




Map Key:    Emergency Aid     Medical Team Support     News     Health Initiatives     Active Emergencies    Closed Emergencies     Offices








Read More
											  
											Donate Now
















Read More About: Philippines Typhoons, Typhoon Haiyan Philippines



Recent News











Relief Workers Bring Aid to Families in the Philippines

12/23/14    Philippines












Emergency Medical Teams Treat Flood Survivors, Help Health Facilities in Jammu & Kashmir 

11/25/14    India












Collaboration with the National Guard Airlifts Aid to Armenia

11/14/14    Armenia












Humanitarian Aid Reaching Remote Pakistan Villages Devastated by Floods

10/03/14    Pakistan





 More News









In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Press Releases
Media Center
Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

