AmeriCares: Mylan Helps Typhoon Survivors in the Philippines 
AmeriCares: Mylan Helps Typhoon Survivors in the Philippines












Connect With Us

				                                   Subscribe to our RSS, read our blogs or follow us through social media:




     

      







Sign up for E-Updates

  Get e-updates from AmeriCares. Our privacy policy. 



First and Last Name:





Spam Control Text: 
 Please leave this field empty

 

 


 Click to Close
                                                                     







+






Home · Blogs · Media Center · Contact Us




























 Menu


Who We Are

Our People
Our Newsroom
Our Credentials
Our History
Careers, Volunteers, and Interns



Emergency Response

Active Emergencies
West Africa Ebola Outbreak
Syria Civil Conflict
Active Recoveries
Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan
Hurricane Sandy
Pakistan Floods
United States Disasters
Japan Earthquake & Tsunami
Horn of Africa/Somalia Famine
Haiti Earthquake
Southeast Asia Tsunami
Historic Emergencies
Crisis Alerts
Emergency Blog



Global Health

Global Medical Assistance
U.S. Medical Assistance
Primary Health Care
Health Initiatives
Medical Outreach
Global Health Blog
AmeriCares Free Clinics



Where We Work


You Can Help

Individuals
Fundraise for Us Online

Gift Planning
Corporations
Foundations
Medical Professionals
Student Ambassadors
Connect With Us


Donate Now



 Donate Now





  














Press Releases: 2014






















www.americares.org  Who We Are  ...  Press  2014











More Releases 


                                                                                                                             Philippines
Mylan Helps Typhoon Survivors in the Philippines









Tweet









														  
														January 2, 2014









Stamford, Conn. – Jan. 2, 2014 – Mylan has donated more than $3 million in critically needed medicines to AmeriCares for its Typhoon Haiyan relief efforts in the Philippines. The donation –the Pittsburgh-based global pharmaceutical company’s largest emergency donation to AmeriCares to date – will help thousands of Filipinos suffering with infections, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases to lower the risks of developing debilitating or life-threatening complications.
“After major disasters it can take months before essential medicines are available in the most devastated communities,” said Kate Sears, AmeriCares Senior Vice President of Emergency Response. “With help from dedicated partners like Mylan we are ensuring survivors have access to chronic care medicines that can prevent further tragedy.”
Mylan, which has more than 500 employees in the Pittsburgh metro area, has supported AmeriCares aid deliveries worldwide since 1991.
Mylan CEO Heather Bresch commented: “Mylan, one of the world’s largest generics and specialty pharmaceutical companies, is very pleased to support AmeriCares relief effort in the Philippines. Our mission to provide the world’s 7 billion people with access to high quality medicine is aligned with AmeriCares ongoing efforts to expand access to medicine through distribution to communities in need.” 
AmeriCares emergency response team was on the ground in the Philippines within days of the Nov. 8 storm. AmeriCares has been delivering aid to the Philippines since 1985 and supports a network of 150 health care facilities across the country, allowing it to quickly speed relief to disaster survivors. Over the years, the disaster relief and humanitarian aid organization has delivered more than $230 million in aid to the Philippines including relief supplies for survivors of the October earthquake and Typhoon Bopha in 2012.

About Mylan
Mylan is a global pharmaceutical company committed to setting new standards in health care. Working together around the world to provide 7 billion people access to high quality medicine, we innovate to satisfy unmet needs; make reliability and service excellence a habit; do what's right, not what's easy; and impact the future through passionate global leadership. We offer a growing portfolio of more than 1,300 generic pharmaceuticals and several brand medications. In addition, we offer a wide range of antiretroviral therapies, upon which approximately 40% of HIV/AIDS patients in developing countries depend. We also operate one of the largest active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturers and currently market products in approximately 140 countries and territories. Our workforce of more than 20,000 people is dedicated to improving the customer experience and increasing pharmaceutical access to consumers around the world. But don't take our word for it. See for yourself. See inside. mylan.com 




Donate Now
                                                                                                                                                                                    
										   
											Read More
											  
											

																
									
											
									

















Media Contacts




 Donna Porstner Associate Director, Media Relations 1 (203) 658-9579 Email Donna









Philippines Disaster Relief Fund
Please help deliver lifesaving aid to families suffering from Super Typhoon Haiyan. Your gift will be restricted to support AmeriCares disaster response in the Philippines.  
Donate Now




In This Section...



Our People
Our Newsroom

News
Media Center
Press Releases

2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003

Media Coverage
Photo Galleries
Video Library
Publications

Our Credentials
Our History
Careers & Volunteers








Donate With Confidence
Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of locally based clinics, hospitals and health care providers around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.  
Donate Now





Connect With Us
     

  






Sign up for E-Updates
  
  

 



 






Spam Control Text:   Please
				leave this field empty
			


























Search the AmeriCares Website:    











 









Sending AidWorldwide
                                                                                        Since it was established in 1982, AmeriCares has delivered more than $12 billion in humanitarian aid to 164 countries, including the United States.






OurEfficiency
  More than 97 percent of all donations directly improve the health of people in need.  Because we deliver donated medical and humanitarian aid to a trusted network of health care partners around the world, we multiply the impact of  contributions from our supporters many, many times over.









Donate  | Media Center | 
									Privacy Policy | 
									Site Map | 
									Contact Us | 
									FAQ | 
                                                                                                                                                              Careers








AmeriCares is approved by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization, and all donations are tax deductible to the extent provided by law. AmeriCares Federal Identification Number (EIN) is 061008595. Member of Reuters Alertnet.
									
88 Hamilton Avenue Stamford, CT 06902   ·   (800) 486-HELP   ·   (203)-658-9500   ·   info@americares.org
© 
									2015 AmeriCares  All Rights Reserved.                                                               
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                       
					
							






Visit other AmeriCares sites:

Select Site
AmeriCares
AmeriCares Free Clinics
AmeriCares India
Safety Net Center
U.S. Access
Medical Outreach Program








Back to top




































































    nonprofit software




 

