Nepal Earthquake: 3700 Dead; 5.1 Magnitude Tremors in Bengal, Bihar
Nepal Earthquake: 3700 Dead; 5.1 Magnitude Tremors in Bengal, Bihar



























Search









Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
RSS




INDIA EDITION
                                



AUSTRALIA EDITION

CHINA EDITION

ITALY EDITION

JAPAN EDITION

U.K. EDITION
U.S. EDITION




WEDNESDAY, 6TH MAY, 2015



International Business Times







International Business Time India






News




India


World


Politics






Sensex Plummets Over 700 Points


Telugu Actor Sivaji Shifted to Hospital After Health Deteriorates Following Hung


Destiny Prison of Elders: Where to Watch Bungie Live Stream on 6 May


Moto X Gen 3 to be Launched in 3rd Quarter of 2015: Features, Specs, Rumours






Business




Companies


Markets


Finance


Regulation






Sensex Plummets Over 700 Points


Google, Yahoo Prefer Asians as Programmers, Not Senior Executives


Salman Khan Convicted: Mandhana, Eros Shares Witness Sell-off


Infosys Shortlists Six Indian Startups for Investment: Report









Technology




Smartphones


Tablets


Internet


Games


Autos






Destiny Prison of Elders: Where to Watch Bungie Live Stream on 6 May


Moto X Gen 3 to be Launched in 3rd Quarter of 2015: Features, Specs, Rumours


Xbox One Preview Update: Now Record and Share in 60 FPS, Rumours Suggest; Likely


Lenovo A7000 Flash Sale: 20,000 Units Sold out in 39 Seconds; Registrations for 






Sport




Football


Tennis


Golf


Cricket






IPL 2015 News: Rajasthan Royals Superstar Steve Smith on Rahane, Kohli and Dravi


Manchester United Transfer News: Mendes Could Force Van Gaal to Sign Falcao, if 


IPL 2015: KXIP skipper George Bailey Blames 'Outside World' for Putting Extra Pr


Chelsea Transfer News: Mourinho, with New Deal, to Sign Four World-Class Players






Entertainment




Bollywood


Hollywood


TV


Gossip






Telugu Actor Sivaji Shifted to Hospital After Health Deteriorates Following Hung


No Heroine in Pa Ranjith's Movie Starring Rajinikanth?


Noel Gallagher Disses at Zayn Malik for Leaving 'One Direction'


'Empire' Season 2 Spoilers: Milestone Awaits Jamal? Jussie Smollett Teases Good 






Life & Style




Watch Ranbir Kapoor's Mimicry Talent; Imitates Raj, Shammi, Shashi Kapoor [VIDEO


Ranveer, Sidharth, Shraddha, Other Celebs Arrive at Special Screening of Deepika


Shah Rukh Khan, Sister Arpita Visit Salman Ahead of 2002 Hit and Run Case Verdic


Cute Pictures of Azad Khan with Mom Kiran Rao Outside their House


Sidharth Malhotra, Alia Bhatt, Shahid Kapoor and Other Celebs' out-of-Bed Look [






Photos




Bollywood


Tamil


Telugu








								Salman Khan, Deepika Padukone, Asin, Kajal Aggarwal, Irrfan Khan, Tabu Spotted a								




								Soha Ali Khan at Zoya Store								




								Asin Thottumkal Spotted at Domestic Airport								




								Salman Khan Verdict Live Photos								






IPL 2015




IPL 2015 News: Rajasthan Royals Superstar Steve Smith on Rahane, Kohli and Dravi


IPL 2015: KXIP skipper George Bailey Blames 'Outside World' for Putting Extra Pr


IPL 2015: Kings XI Punjab Considering Releasing All Foreign Players after Dismal


RCB vs KXIP Live Streaming and TV Information: Watch IPL 2015 Match Live


Watch 2nd Test Live: Bangladesh vs Pakistan Live Streaming and TV Information





Video



Technology


Entertainment


Sports


Politics






Play Election 2015: Coalition clashes in Oxford West and Abingdon as Lib Dems take on


Play Costa Rica: Volcano Turrialba spews black ash cloud


Play A-List Insider: Royal family welcome Princess Charlotte, Rihanna steals the show


Play Nepal: Police find over 25m rupees under destroyed bank









 







 





Society







Nepal Earthquake: 3700 Dead; 5.1 Magnitude Tremors in Bengal, Bihar



By 
Mugdha Variyar

April 25, 2015 11:56 IST



 














 



Share on linkedin














 
 
 
1 of 2Massive destruction in Nepal after earthquake.TwitterMassive destruction in Nepal after earthquake.Twitter/Javed Aziz Khan
Fresh 6.7 Magnitude Earthquake in Nepal, Tremors Felt in India
Almost 3,700 people have been killed after a magnitude 7.9 earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday morning with massive tremors felt in Delhi and the entire northern region of India. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) upgraded the intensity from 7.5 to 7.9 on the Richter scale. 
SEE PHOTOS of EARTHQUAKE DESTRUCTION
The epicenter of the strong earthquake was reportedly in Nepal's Pokhara, but massive tremors were felt as far as Lucknow and Patna in India.
Helpline Numbers: Nepal earthquake emergency numbers: Police range (Kathmandu) 4261 945, 4261 790 
LIVE UPDATES: 
27 April
8.00 pm (IST): Fresh tremors of magnitude 5.1 on the Richter scale shook parts of West Bengal and Bihar on Monday. A quake was also reported from Jharkhand. 
The toll in India has crossed 70. 
1.08 pm (IST): As #ThankYouPM is the top trend on Twitter in India, PM Narendra Modi used the micro-blogging platform to thank Indians. 
"If we want to thank anyone, it should be the 125 crore people of India who have made Nepal's pain their own & extended all help," Modi tweeted. 

To all those saying #ThankYouPM- appreciate the sentiment…real thanks should be to our great culture, which teaches us 'Seva Parmo Dharma'.
— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 27, 2015

11.44 am (IST): Almost a million children have been "severely affected" in the Nepal earthquake a spokesman for the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) has reportedly said. 
9.15 am (IST): The toll has risen to 3,218, Nepal officials have confirmed.
26 April
9.50 pm (IST): The death toll has reached 2,500 in Nepal, while in India, the number of casualties have risen to 65.
6.50 pm (IST): At least 22 climbers are believed to be killed in avalanches at a base camp in Mt Everest, while scores are feared buried. 
5.20 pm (IST): Several people are said to have been buried under the snow. 
10.20 am (IST): 
Indian Army calls aid mission in earthquake-hit Nepal 'Operation Maitri'. 
25 April
9.09 pm (IST): The death toll has reached a staggering 1,500 in Nepal. In India, the toll has climbed to 41. 
9.06 pm (IST): Baba Ramdev is said to have had a narrow escape in Nepal. 

Kathmandu: I thank god that my program ended just a minute before the earthquake struck: Baba Ramdev #earthquake pic.twitter.com/OkLTpb1ALe
— ANI (@ANI_news) April 25, 2015

 
8.30 pm (IST): The death toll in Nepal has climbed to 970, and is likely to rise further. 
8.25 pm (IST): Indian tourists in Nepal being flown back home. 

RT @eoiktmnp IAF Aircraft with 52 Indians onboard to leave for Delhi, more aircrafts on the way to evacuate stranded Indians in Nepal.
— Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) April 25, 2015

8.20 pm (IST): Images of destruction from Everest base camp in Nepal. About 18 people were killed in an avalanche triggered by the Nepal earthquake. 

Azim Afif: Scores dead, missing, injured at Everest Base Camp. SAR still ongoing. No definite figure so far @501Awani pic.twitter.com/nzSlJdFzRl
— Rizal Zulkapli AWANI (@rizalzulkapli) April 25, 2015

7.39 pm (IST): Chilling images surfaced from Nepal's devastation. 

Startling images of destruction in #Nepal after 7.9-magnitude quake. http://t.co/HTFQqwlmK3 pic.twitter.com/hbNohVO3FU
— Chico Harlan (@chicoharlan) April 25, 2015

  7.35 pm (IST): The Indian armed forces have been deployed for rescue and aid in neighbouring Nepal.

#NepalEarthquake Inside of C-17 aircraft being readied for take off for Nepal with rescue personnel and load. pic.twitter.com/w6nPW4zW42 — Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015

6.55 pm (IST): The death toll is nearing 900, with scores of people still to be rescued from rubble of collapsed buildings. 
The death toll in India is at 34. 
5.07 pm (IST): The death toll in Nepal continues to rise, with the current figure at 700, and the numbers are likely to rise. 
4.30 pm (IST): An avalanche triggered by the Nepal earthquake at Mount Everest killed eight people at a base camp on Saturday, reuters reported. 
4.08 pm (IST): The death toll in Nepal has risen to 449, according to police officials, Reuters has reported. This is the most disastrous earthquake to hit Nepal in over eight decades. 
4.00 pm (IST): The death toll in India has risen to nearly 20, with most deaths reported from Bihar. 
3.15 pm (IST): The death toll in Nepal has already crossed 150, with the toll likely to rise. 
3.14 pm (IST): The death toll in India has risen to nine, according to reports. 
2.44 pm (IST): This is the link to Google's Person Finder app for the Nepal Earthquake

We've just launched a Person Finder instance to help track missing persons for the #Nepal earthquake-->http://t.co/3e4pNsOALm
— Google India (@googleindia) April 25, 2015

2.33 pm (IST): Landslides have been reported in Sikkim due to the earthquake. 
2.10 pm (IST): Five deaths reported in India. 3 from Bihar. 
Home Minister Rajnath Singh had earlier said that there were no preliminary reports of damage in India. 
1.52 pm (IST): The Nepal earthquake has reportedly triggered avalanches in the Mount Everest. 
1.48 pm (IST): Nepal's iconic Dharahara Tower, also known as Bhimsen Tower, has been reportedly destroyed. 

#Earthquake in #Nepal the grand Bhimsen tower now & before in #Kathmandu pic.twitter.com/VmTZ18AZ22
— Rajesh Shenoy (@ranjalrajesh) April 25, 2015


#Dharahara (Bhimsen Tower) the 19th century, 9-storey tall tower in #Kathmandu, has collapsed b/c #Nepalquake #Nepal pic.twitter.com/A7tbEx3RIv
— Stefan Simanowitz (@StefSimanowitz) April 25, 2015

1.45 pm (IST): The Indian Defence Ministry has put Indian Air Force and the Army on standby for rescue efforts related to the earthquake. 

#NepalEarthquake MoD puts Indian Army, BRO and IAF assets on standby for any task in view of the earthquake. @airnewsalerts @MEAIndia
— Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015

1.37 pm (IST): At least two deaths in Nepal. Toll likely to increase. 
1.30 pm (IST): Quake survivors are being rushed to hospitals with broken limbs, severe injuries. 
1.12 pm (IST): Two children are among the several casualties. One child was killed on the Indian side of the border with Nepal, according to Reuters. 
1.02 pm (IST): According to social media posts, nearly 400 people are feared buried in a building collapse in Kathmandu. 

this ninth-storey dharahara is comletely destroyed. around 400 are suspected to be buried. #earthquake #kathmandu pic.twitter.com/bOF2qoAq62
— Sagar Ghimire (@nepocean) April 25, 2015

12.50 pm (IST): The United States Geological Survey (USGS) has upgraded the intensity to 7.9 on the Richter scale. 
12.45 pm (IST): There are reports of casualties from the massive earthquake in Nepal. Buildings have collapsed. 
12.40 pm (IST): "We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home & in Nepal," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. 
In Nepal's capital of Kathmandu, reports of heavy damages are trickling out, with photos shared on social media showing collapsed buildings.  
Twitter was immediately abuzz about the earthquake, with many netizens posting in the middle of the tremors.
According to social media posts, tremors were also felt in Rajasthan and other parts of the country.
Earthquake tremors were also felt in Kolkata, TMC's Derek o'Brien tweeted, adding that some buildings 'shook'.

I hop everyone is safe. Still shaking from the major earthquake. Damage in my area #kathmandu pic.twitter.com/hUAzcLoLNv
— Bibek Bhandari (@bibekbhandari) April 25, 2015


Terrible #earthquake in #Nepal. Just saved ourselves. Don't know how many killed. Roads are blocked already. pic.twitter.com/qsxITz0n1P
— Guna Raj Luitel (@gunaraj) April 25, 2015


Earthquake in the heart of Kolkata. Building in Kalighat shook #alert Serious seismic
— Derek O'Brien (@quizderek) April 25, 2015


That was a pretty scary, long earthquake, no? — Mihir Sharma (@mihirssharma) April 25, 2015


earthquake in rajasthan too..
— Fan Akshay (@SRKspartans) April 25, 2015




RelatedMajor earthquake hits off Taiwan coast as Japan lifts tsunami warning















Must Read



Singer Abhijeet Equals People Sleeping on Footpaths to Dogs


Sensex Plummets Over 700 Points


20,000 Lenovo A7000 Sold out in 39 Seconds


Mani Ratnam Visited Hospital for Checkup not Heart Attack



















IBTIMES TV


Mute
Unmute

Play

Milan Expo 2015: Violent May Day protests at No Expo anti-capitalist demonstration













Photo Gallery






Salman Khan, Deepika Padukone, Asin, Kajal Aggarwal, Irrfan Khan, Tabu Spotted at Domestic Airport





Soha Ali Khan at Zoya Store





Asin Thottumkal Spotted at Domestic Airport







Most Popular
Most Shared










Almost 5,92,281 students appeared for the odisha BSE 10th standard Matric board exam this year.

Odisha BSE 10th Matric HSC Exam Result 2015 Announced; Where to Check Grades Online










Salman Khan arrived in Mumbai for the final verdict in the 2002 hit-and-run case.

Salman Khan Gets Interim Bail for 2 Days in 2002 Hit-and-Run Case










Initial reports claim that bomb-maker Usman was killed by Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF)

Abdul Basit Usman: Philippines' Most Wanted Terrorist Killed by Bodyguard for $1 Million Bounty










Almost 5,92,281 students appeared for the Odisha BSE Class 10 Matric Board Exam in 2015.

Odisha 2015 BSE Class 10 Matric Board Exam Results to be Announced Soon; Where to Check Grades Online













Oru Vadakkan Selfie team got an overwhelming welcome in Dubai and were seen taking selfies with their fans.

Oru Vadakkan Selfie Team Nivin Pauly, Aju Varghese, Manjima Mohan, Neeraj Madhav in Dubai [PHOTOS]









The complete list of cast members and characters that will appear in the new FX series, The Bastard Executioner, created by Kurt Sutter has been revealed.

The Bastard Executioner Full Cast Revealed; Sons of Anarchy Stars Get Back in Action [POLL]









Isis militants, who have repeatedly made clear their intention to attack the US, are now trying take advantage of racial tensions in the country to recruit new members.

Isis Using Baltimore Riots to Recruit African-Americans for Waging Jihad: Report









The Humane Society International and the Wildlife Trust of India are sending animal rescue teams to Nepal.

Nepal Earthquake: Kathmandu Zoo Animals Safe; Scores of Dogs, Cats Dead, Say Animal Welfare Groups















 
						                            READ MORE	                         
					








Germanwings Co-Pilot Andreas Lubitz Practised Crash Descent During Dusseldorf-Barcelona Flight







UK Election 2015: Where to Follow 7 May Poll Action







Edward Snowden Death Hoax: Russian Interior Minister claims NSA Whistle-blower 'Died at Home'







Watch Ranbir Kapoor's Mimicry Talent; Imitates Raj, Shammi, Shashi Kapoor [VIDEO]




















													OTHER NEWS											



Sony Launches Pro-Selfie Smartphone Xperia C4 with 5mp Front-Camera
Is Michael Jackson's Son Prince a Disgrace to the Family? Paris Jackson Seemingly Thinks So
'Baahubali - The Beginning' Third Poster: SS Rajamouli Introduces Anushka Shetty as Devasena
Cannes Film Festival 2015: Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Katrina Kaif and Sonam Kapoor Not to Share Stage
Ranbir Kapoor's 'Jagga Jasoos', 'Tamasha' Release Dates Revealed
'Yeh Hai Mohabbatein' Actor Karan Patel and Wife Ankita Bhargava Thank Fans for Wedding Greetings
'Uttama Villain': Theatres 'Face Trouble' with License of Kamal Haasan Starrer
2002 Hit-and-Run Case: Fans Share Pictures of Salman Khan's Charity Work on Social Media [PHOTOS]
Robert Pattinson and FKA Twigs Leave for Romantic Vacation after Debuting as Couple at Met Gala
'Vijay 59': Ilayathalapathy to Begin Shooting for Atlee Directorial by Mid-July?

























 





Tweet











Home
Business
Technology
Sports
Entertainment
Life & Style
Photos





About us

Advertise with us
Brand


Terms of service
Privacy
Permission
Syndication
Contact


Editions:
Australia

China

India
Italy

Japan

U.K.
U.S.





© Copyright 2015 International Business Times, India Edition All Rights Reserved.

Facebook
Twitter

Google Plus
RSS



 




























