Nepal earthquake triggers avalanches in Mount Everest
Nepal earthquake triggers avalanches in Mount Everest


UK EDITIONAUSTRALIA EDITIONCHINA EDITIONINDIA EDITIONITALY EDITIONJAPAN EDITIONU.K. EDITIONU.S. EDITIONWEDNESDAY, 6TH MAY, 2015Sign inFacebookTwitterGoogle PlusRSSSearchInternational Business Times UK 



International Business Times UK

 


News
World
Business
Politics
Technology
Science
Sport
Entertainment
Opinion
Video






 




Society

Earthquake
Pakistan






Nepal earthquake triggers avalanches in Mount Everest





By 
Vasudevan Sridharan


April 25, 2015 08:01 BST















Nepalese rescue members and onlookers gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in KathmanduPRAKASH MATHEMA/AFP/Getty Images 
A 7.9 magnitude earthquake has hit Nepal triggering tremors in several cities in neighbouring India.
The powerful quake is believed to have caused avalanches in Mount Everest although the extent of the catastrophe remains to be seen.
Reuters reported that 50 people are trapped in a 19th century tower in Kathmandu that was wrecked in the quake.
Images on social media showed many collapsed buildings in the Nepalese capital. Initially, the magnitude of the earthquake was measured as 7.5 but was later revised.
Nepalese rescue members move the body of a victim from the collapsed Darahara Tower in KathmanduPRAKASH MATHEMA/AFP/Getty Images
Many cities and towns including capital New Delhi in northern India experienced the tremors. No casualties have been reported as yet. Television images showed people running out of their buildings in several Indian cities.
J L Gautam, Head Operations Seismology of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), said: "Earthquake of magnitude 7.5 occurred today (25 April) at 11.41 am between latitude 28.1 North and longitude 84.6 east. The epicentre was located in Nepal," an IMD statement said.
Even some far-off cities in Pakistan have reported feeling the effects of the quake.
The quake's depth was about 3kms which is considered as shallow. Usually, earthquakes which occur closer to the surface cause more damage than the ones that occur deeper.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reached out to Nepalese President Ram Baran Yadav and promised help.
"We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home & in Nepal," wrote Modi on Twitter. 









 Comments 





 Recommend 




 Share 










Recommend
Share
Recommend
Recommend
Share
Share
Recommend
Share








YOU MIGHT LIKE THISSponsored Content by Taboola














TRENDING ARTICLES AND OFFERSAdvertising provided by Adblade

















IBT Video





VE Day stories: I was hit by a mine while serving on HMS Belfast





Why advertise with us



Columnists




James Kelly
“If SNP's Nicola Sturgeon really wanted to break up Britain, you'd know about it







Why advertise with us




                                                                    READ MORE                                                      
                            






Tories take slender lead over Labour in final poll before election
Conservatives open up lead over Labour in ComRes poll ahead of Thursday's general election.





Rolex rioters? Milan anarchist photographed wearing '£5k watch'
Luxury brand urges government to withdraw association between its watches and May Day anarchist violence.





Salman Khan: Bollywood star guilty of hit-and-run killing
Salman Khan gets 5 years in prison for 2002 drunk driving case in which one homeless man was killed.





Burundi's president should prepare for a military overthrow
Opposition leader Pierre Claver Mbonimpa exclusively tells IBTimes UK about a potential military coup.





Graphene-coated spiders create silk strong enough to catch a plane
Spraying spiders with graphene produces super strong silk that could lead to new class of materials.





Arkansas ex-governor Huckabee announces presidential bid
The former governor of Arkansas made his official announcement during a 5 May event in Hope, Arkansas.





Hotel denies Dave Goldberg was a guest and did not die in their gym
The Four Seasons Resort has refuted claims that husband of Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg was a guest.





Netanyahu's bad blood with hardline Zionists creates crisis
Time is running out for Israeli prime minister to form a majority in the Knesset.





UAE: Smart palm trees offer free Wi-Fi on Dubai beaches
In a move to transform Dubai into a 'Smart 'City', palm tree-shaped stations are being installed on beaches.





VE Day: A short history of the day the Second World War ended for Europe
Victory in Europe Day, or VE Day, on 8 May, marks the end of WWII in Europe.





Seven arrested in Syria extremists fraud investigation
Six men and a woman seized at address in north London and Luton, as part of investigation into fraud ring that targeted...





Expo Milano 2015: Best pavilions at global food fair
The Expo 2015 opened in Milan on 1 May and will run for six months. Its theme is Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life.





Why advertise with us

 














Home
World
Business
Politics
Technology
Science
Sport
Entertainment
Opinion
Video







About us
Leadership
Meet the team
Advertise with us
Brand
Terms of service
Privacy
Permission
Syndication
Contact


Editions:
Australia
China
India
Italy
Japan
U.K.
U.S.







© Copyright 2015 IBTimes Co., Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google Plus
RSS




 












 
















