Typhoon Haiyan strikes Philippines  | Disasters Emergency Committee
Typhoon Haiyan strikes Philippines  | Disasters Emergency Committee










Disasters Emergency Committee
 


Press Centre
Donation Help
 

  





Search this site 









  Home
Appeals
How to Help
Blogs
Member Charities
About DEC


  


Home ›› Blogs ›› Typhoon Haiyan Strikes Philippines  Typhoon Haiyan strikes Philippines 8/11/2013 



 

RELATED: 




Why does aid take so long to get through?



 

 Most DEC agencies are responding with their partners to the humanitarian needs caused by the super storm.Typhoon Haiyan devastation: Daanbantayan, Cebu via @TheFreemanNews. Photo by Aldo Banaynal
DEC MEMBERS RESPONDING TO THE STORM INCLUDE:
Save the Children
British Red Cross
World Vision
CAFOD
Christian Aid
Concern
Oxfam
Plan UK
CARE International
Age International
ActionAid
Merlin
Teafund
Updated 14.30 GMT 09.11.13
Early reports suggest that over four million people have been affected by Typhoon Haiyan - known locally as Yolanda - and in the badly hit coastal city of Tacloban, some estimates suggest more than a thousand people have died and eye witnesses say hardly a single house is still standing.
More than 15 million people live in the areas worst affected by the Typhoon, including in Metro Cebu, the country's second largest city with a population of 2.5 million people. Tacloban is on the coast near where they centre of the storm made landfall and is home to 220,000 people. Many of those in the path of the storm are poor or very poor, making it more likely that their basic homes will be damaged or destroyed and that they will need support to rebuild their lives.
The authorities in the Philippines pre-emptively evacuated nearly 790,000 people and had pre-positioned food packages for nearly 500,000 people.  The army and civil authorities are now leading the relief effort with support from the UN and aid agencies.
The DEC is in close contact with its member agencies, many of whom have staff or partners alread responding in the worst affected areas. We will continue to assess the impact of the disaster against our appeal criteria as more information becomes available.
Photo: Tropical Storm Risk
The typhoon has now left Philippines waters but is expected to make landfall in central Vietnam early on Sunday morning (UK time).  Vietnamese authorities have begun evacuating 100,000 people living in low lying coastal areas to temporary typhoon shelters on higher ground.
Other Sources of Information

WEBSITES
Tropical Storm Risk
 
Met Office Storm Tracker
 
UNOCHA Haiyan update 
 
ReliefWeb - Philippines watch page
 
Philippines National Disaster Council
 

TWITTER
DEC and all our UK members 
 
Philippine Star newspaper
 
Sun Star newspaper
 
Typhoon Haiyan news aggregator
 
Philippines National Disaster Council
 
Philippines Red Cross
 
World Vision Philippines 
 
Plan Asia
 


 


 

Ebola Crisis Appeal 
Donate NowDonate Now via Paypal 

  

Gaza Crisis Appeal 
We’re still raising funds for the Gaza Crisis Appeal.
Read more...


  

Categories 
HaiyanPhilippinesStormTyphoon 

  




















 

  


Get Email Alerts


  

Blogs 

Typhoon Haiyan strikes Philippines
Hunger in Africa: why it’s happening again
Gaza Crisis Appeal Total
Growing West Africa Food Crisis
East Africa appeal raises £75m, 1.3m people helped
East Africa food crisis - Why did help arrive so late?
Public give £72m for East Africa
DEC 50TH Anniversary: Kosovo Crisis
DEC 50th Anniversary: 2004 Asian Tsunami
DEC 50th Anniversary: Asia Quake Appeal
DEC 50th Anniversary: Central America Hurricane Appeal
DEC 50th Anniversary: Earthquake in Turkey 1966
DEC Annual Report 2013-14 published
DEC Statement On The Ebola Outbreak
DEC Trustee visits Jordan to see Syria Crisis first hand
DEC welcomes Justine Greening
East Africa Food Crisis: looking back
Ebola Crisis Appeal Total
Emergency News Update
Haiti earthquake, two years on
How your support helped East Africa
India: Cyclone Phailin
Jeremy Bennett, DEC Vice Chairman, visits Jordan - part 1
Jeremy Bennett, DEC Vice Chairman, visits Jordan - part 2
Jeremy Bennett, DEC Vice Chairman, visits Jordan - part 3
Latest Syria Appeal Total
Philippines Typhoon Appeal Total
Premier League and DEC unite to tackle famine
Process vs Outcomes
South Asia Monsoon Floods
Syria Crisis: DEC visits refugees in Jordan
Syria Crisis: refugees in Lebanon, 1
Syria Crisis: refugees in Lebanon, 2
Thailand floods, Bangkok affected with 2.5 million at risk
Tropical Storm Washi - Philippines floods
UK PUBLIC DONATE £3.4M FOR SYRIA CRISIS APPEAL
UK agencies lack funds to help prevent famine in South Sudan
UK public donate £57m for East Africa Crisis
USA charity ride for Syria Crisis Appeal
Volunteer blog: My time with the DEC
Welcome to Tacloban
Why cash is the best thing you can give
World Humanitarian Day: £53 million raised by UK public for DEC appeal
£50 million raised so far, time to hold a fundraising event for DEC East Africa Appeal
UK public raises £45 million to help people of East Africa
Annual Report & reflections on 2010/11
British Red Cross launches Turkey earthquake appeal
Impact of the media coverage of disasters
New DEC website



  
 



 


Accessibility
Sign up for Updates
Comments & Complaints
Jobs & Volunteering
Useful Links
Terms & Conditions
Open Information Policy
Privacy & Data Protection
Webmail Sign In
Copyright
Member Sign In
Contact Us
COMPANY NO. 3356526 CHARITY NO. 1062638
 

  
 
 






Share













