Donate to Philippines Typhoon - Typhoon Haiyan Appeal | Oxfam GB 
Donate to Philippines Typhoon - Typhoon Haiyan Appeal | Oxfam GB










Skip to primary navigation
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content









Home


Teachers


Policy & Practice


Shop finder


Blogs




Create my Oxfam account 
Login
My Basket (0)



Search

Search

 All
 Online Shop
 Education
 Policy & Practice
 Shop Finder












What we doGet involvedShop onlineDonate






        You are here:
Home
What we do
>
Emergency response
>

        Philippines Typhoon





Philippines Typhoon Appeal













	Photo: Tessa Bunney




"Without Oxfam, we would be helpless." Generous donations to Oxfam helped Zosima and Francisco repair their damaged fishing boat and recover their seaweed farming business on Bantayan Island.







Oxfam has reached more than 850,000 people with life-saving support since Typhoon Haiyan devastated large areas of the Philippines on 8 November 2013.
Donate to the Philippines Typhoon Appeal 
If you have donated to this appeal, thank you - you helped to raise £5 million to help us save lives. If you haven't donated yet, please help us support people as they start to rebuild and recover.













    Latest updates


One year on - summary of Oxfam's reponse (PDF, 1.45MB)

Photos: Philippines Typhoon - after the storm








The situation in the Philippines








Typhoon Haiyan (or Yolanda as it's known locally) wreaked havoc across much of the central Philippines. In total, more than 8,000 people were killed, and more than four million people were forced from their homes.
In the short term, the typhoon left more than 14.1 million people in need of immediate, life-saving assistance. But it also pushed millions of poor people further into poverty and debt. Rice crops, coconut trees and fishing boats were wiped out, leaving people struggling to grow food and earn an income.
Donate to the Philippines Typhoon Appeal











	Photo: Jane Beesley




Children fill buckets at an Oxfam tap stand in Tacloban. We worked with the local water department to repair and reconnect the local water supply, getting clean water to more than 200,000 people.









Philippines Typhoon: Oxfam's response






Our immediate response focused on Northern Cebu, Leyte and Eastern Samar. Our teams faced huge logistical challenges - roads were blocked, airports closed, and electricity and water supplies cut off. But, by the end of the first week, people devastated by the typhoon were already receiving life-saving supplies of water, food and shelter. 
We're now focusing on helping people get their livelihoods back, for example by repairing fishing boats or distributing rice seeds.









	Photo: Simon Roberts




"Oxfam has given us the equipment, so let us help each other to succeed." Farmers like Crispin Miranda received chainsaws and training so they can clear land of fallen coconut trees, and sell the wood in local markets.













Water, sanitation and hygiene
In the aftermath of the hurricane, contaminated water was putting people's lives at risk. Our first priority was to provide clean, safe water to drink through tanks, pumps, pipes and by trucking water in. Sanitation was also a key issue. We built toilets, keeping them clean and maintaining the sewage system. We also built washing and laundry facilities and provided essential hygiene equipment.
Helping people get food and earn a living
The devastation Haiyan caused to people's livelihoods was immense - it badly affected their ability to work and earn a living. 74% of the fishing communities in areas affected by the storm lost their main source of income. In the short term, we provided people with emergency income so they could buy food and other essentials, like clothes and materials to repair their homes or recover their businesses. We've supported 107,000 families in the form of cash, vouchers or cash for work. We have given direct help to affected communities in coconut farming, seaweed farming, fishing
    and rice farming, such as:

Training and equipment for 9,000 families who work in coconut farming.
Helping more than 2,200 fishing families to repair their boats by establishing boat repair stations and providing training, materials and cash for work.
Providing fishing materials to more than 3,000 families who lost all their fishing materials in the storm, such as nets, hooks, crab nets, fish drying equipment.
Helped more than 800 families who rely on seaweed farming, by providing materials and training to make essential repairs to equipment. We also offered cash for work clearing debris from the community and mangroves, so that families can afford to buy their own new equipment.

Advocacy and other support
Since Typhoon Haiyan, Oxfam has published several reports to give a perspective on the situation in typhoon-affected regions, and insight and recommendations on how best to continue reconstruction. This includes recommendations for the rehabilitation of the coconut and fisheries industry, relocation and resettlement, and land tenure. Our #MAKEtheRIGHTMOVE campaign calls on the government to get resettlement and rehabilitation efforts right, and immediately put in place their disaster preparedness and climate change adaptation plans.
The emergency phase of our response provided life-saving support to millions. But challenges remain in the transition to long term development.
One year on - summary of Oxfam's reponse (PDF, 1.45MB)









            Blogs and press releases



The days after the storm - a year on from typhoon Haiyan

                                18 Nov 2014







Typhoon Haiyan - One Year On and 1 million people still living in dangerous conditions as typhoon season hits 

                                06 Nov 2014







Getting beyond relief in the Philippines

                                14 Apr 2014






View all







Other ways to help







    Emergency Response





Make a regular donation to our emergency fund so we can be there fast every time disaster hits.

Oxfam's emergency fund





    Fundraise 





Help save lives by fundraising for Oxfam with one of these simple ideas.

Fundraising for an emergency





    Emergency banners





Download an Oxfam emergency banner and help us raise money for our appeals.

Emergency banners












                            SHARE THIS.
                        

Please help us reach more people in by sharing this page with your social network.






 


























What we do
Introduction to OxfamThe impact of our workEmergency responseSouth Sudan CrisisSyria Crisis AppealEbola CrisisGaza Crisis AppealIraq Crisis AppealPhilippines TyphoonTyphoon Haiyan: After the stormCentral African RepublicMali crisisYemen crisisCountries we work inIssues we work onAbout usSign up for Oxfam email updates








Follow us on Twitter

@gscott512 Thank you for helping spread the word . Take action and sign our #EvenItUp petition: http://t.co/ZyLwfrIQ2n cheers Becky
          


Join us on Facebook





View videos on Youtube






  

Oxfam GB
2 days ago






  

Oxfam GB
2 days ago
165 likes
















Women's clothing

Vintage
Tops
Dresses
Coats & jackets
All Women's clothing



Popular brands

Barbour
Mulberry
Whistles
Per Una
Karen Millen
Boden



Shopfinder






Men's clothing

Coats & jackets
Jeans & trousers
Shirts
T-shirts & tops
All Men's clothing



Oxfam Unwrapped

Animal lovers
Parents & carers
Foodies
Bestsellers
All Oxfam Unwrapped gifts



Help






Books

Biography
Children's Books
Fiction
Languages
More Books



Music, film & video games

Music
Film
Video games
More music, film & video games



Contact us






Highlights

Oxfam Unwrapped
Vintage



Featured categories

Art & photography
Bridal
Household
Kids' clothing
Memorabilia & ephemera
Music, film & video games
Stamps & coins
Toys & games
Vinyl









What we do 
Introduction to Oxfam
The impact of our work
Emergency response
Countries we work in
Issues we work on
Working at Oxfam
History of Oxfam


Get involved  
Fundraising
Take action
Campaign with us
Volunteer with us
Philanthropy
Your company and Oxfam


Donate 
Make a one-off donation
Donate £5 a month
Pay in your fundraising
How we spend your money
Donate to a project
Leave a legacy to Oxfam
Donation FAQs


Shop 
Oxfam shop finder
Women's clothing
Men's clothing
Second-hand books
Give a goat
Donate to our shops


Oxfam

Sign up for email updates
About us
Media
Jobs
FAQs
Contact us
Terms & conditions
Privacy & cookies
Accessibility


© 2015. Oxfam is a registered charity in England and Wales (no 202918) and Scotland (SC039042).
     Oxfam GB is a member of the international confederation Oxfam.


























