Toll in devastating Nepal quake rises to 1,341: Police - The Express Tribune
Toll in devastating Nepal quake rises to 1,341: Police - The Express Tribune







Daily Express
The Express Tribune
Urdu E-Paper
English E-Paper
Watch Express News Live





Wednesday, 06 May 2015 
Subscribe







RSS
Today's Paper 
Subscribe
 beta 2.1 
















Home
Pakistan
Business
World
Sports
Life & Style
Multimedia
Opinion
Magazine
Blogs
Jobs
Classifieds
Urdu News
Live News



 Sindh
Punjab
Balochistan
KP & FATA
Jammu & Kashmir
Gilgit Baltistan
 

















TribuneToll in devastating Nepal quake rises to 1,341: Police
Share
Tweet  



Toll in devastating Nepal quake rises to 1,341: Police

PM direct­s relief goods to be dispat­ched to Kathma­ndu as soon as airpor­t become­s functi­onal; 4 planes ready to leave 

By Reuters  / Web Desk / AFP 
Published: April 25, 2015


0SHARES
Share
Tweet  
Email








Rescuers clear rubble in Kathmandu. PHOTO: AFP 











NEPAL: The toll from the massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal has risen to 1,341 people, a police spokesperson said on Saturday. The quake ripped through large parts of Nepal, and northern India, toppling office blocks and towers in Kathmandu and triggering a deadly avalanche that hit an Everest base camp.
Of the total, more than 630 were reported dead in the Kathmandu Valley and at least 300 more in the capital, with cfficials claiming at least 1,170 people are known to have died in Nepal alone, making it the quake-prone Himalayan nation’s worst disaster in more than 80 years.
But the final toll from the 7.8 magnitude quake could be much higher, and dozens more people were reported killed in neighbouring India and China.
“The death toll has reached 1,170,” Nepal police spokesperson Kamal Singh Bam told AFP, adding that rescue efforts were still underway.
Emergency workers fanned out across the Himalayan nation to rescue those trapped under collapsed homes, buildings and other debris.
Offers of help poured in from governments around the world, with the United States announcing it was sending in a disaster response team.
“Deaths have been reported from all regions except the far west. All our security personnel have been deployed to rescue and assist those in need,” Bam told AFP.
Officials said 10 people were killed when an avalanche buried parts of Mount Everest’s base camp in Nepal where hundreds of mountaineers have gathered at the start of the annual climbing season.
“We don’t have the details yet, but 10 have been reported dead so far, including foreign climbers,” Gyanendra Kumar Shrestha, an official in Nepal’s tourism department, told AFP.
“We are trying to assess how many are injured. There might be over 1,000 people there right now, including foreign climbers and Nepalese supporting staff.”
AFP Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly, on an assignment to Everest together with a colleague, was among those caught up in the chaos.
“We are both ok… snowing here so no choppers coming,” she said in an SMS on approach to base camp. “I hurt my hand – got it bandaged and told to keep it upright to stop the bleeding.”
Experienced mountaineers said panic erupted at base camp which had been “severely damaged”, while one described the avalanche as “huge”.
“Huge disaster. Helped searched and rescued victims through huge debris area. Many dead. Much more badly injured. More to die if not heli asap,” tweeted Romanian climber Alex Gavan from base camp.
Google executive Dan Fredinburg was the only climber killed so far identified.




 This is Dans little sister Megan. I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn't make it. We appreciate all of the love that has been sent our way thus far and know his soul and his spirit will live on in so many of us. All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us. Thank you.
A photo posted by Dan Fredinburg (@danfredinburg) on Apr 25, 2015 at 11:27am PDT



Lawrence You, director of privacy at Google, said Fredinburg was with three other Google employees, who all survived. He added that Google.org was contributing $1 million to response efforts.
#Everest base camp after #NepalEarthquake. #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/onGr7akAR8
— Northmen PK (@NorthmenPK) April 25, 2015

#Everest base camp 8 bodies recovered. Climbers in camp 1 and 2 are safe but stuck. #NepalQuake #NepalEarthquake
— Northmen PK (@NorthmenPK) April 25, 2015

#Everest climbers in camp 1 survived but route completely destroyed by avalanche. Climbers stuck in camp 1 and camp 2. #NepalQuake
— Northmen PK (@NorthmenPK) April 25, 2015

#Everest Camp 1 is safe as per reports, injuries reported in base camp, but no causality so far. #NepalQuake https://t.co/f74zrxP1z6
— Northmen PK (@NorthmenPK) April 25, 2015

#Makalu base camp completely destroyed but luckily climbers are safe, as per initial reports. #Everest #NepalQuake https://t.co/k2XcJSxCHQ
— Northmen PK (@NorthmenPK) April 25, 2015

But the worst damage was in Kathmandu, where the historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction, was among buildings brought down.

The Dharahara Tower in Kathmandu. PHOTO: calflier001 (L)/ AFP (R)
 

On the left is an image of the Durbar square from August 2010. On the right is an image of the square from April 25, 2015. PHOTO: AFP
At least a dozen bodies were taken away from the ruins of the 19th-century tower, according to an AFP photographer who saw similar scenes of multiple casualties throughout the city.
“It was difficult to breath, but I slowly moved the debris. Someone then pulled me out. I don’t know where my friends are,” Dharmu Subedi, 36, who was standing outside the tower when it collapsed, said from a hospital bed.
At least 42 people were known to have died in India, including 30 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the capital New Delhi had to be evacuated.
The United States Geological Survey said the shallow quake struck 77 kilometres (48 miles) northwest of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes.
The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport which was briefly closed.
Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated.
“It was horrible, all of a sudden all the water came up out of the pool and drenched everyone, the children started screaming,” Cuelenaere told AFP. “Some parts of the city fell down, there was dust rising… There were many (rescue) helicopters.”
Aftershock tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake.
USGS initially measured the quake at 7.5 magnitude and later adjusted it to 7.8, with a depth of 15 kilometres.
Nepal and the rest of the Himalayas are particularly prone to earthquakes because of the collision of the Indian and Eurasia plates.
The thrust of the India plate beneath Eurasia generates a large amount of seismic activity, the USGS says on its website.
A spokesman for Nepal’s home ministry said the government had released around $500 million as emergency funds for rescue operations.
India dispatched two military transport planes to help with the rescue and relief efforts and there were similar offers from around the region, including Sri Lanka and Pakistan.
The US Agency for International Development (USAID) said a disaster response was being flown to Nepal and that the Obama administration had authorised an initial $1 million “to address immediate needs.”
India dispatched two military transport planes to help with the rescue and relief efforts and there were similar offers from around the region, including Sri Lanka and Pakistan. China will be dispatching a 68-strong China International Search & Rescue Team to Kathmandu.
“We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home and in Nepal,” Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet.
The US is deploying a team of disaster response experts to #Nepal and providing an initial $1 million in disaster relief assistance
— WH National Security (@NSCPress) April 25, 2015

China’s official Xinhua news agency said that two people, including an 83-year-old woman, were killed in the Tibet region.
The earthquake was also felt across large areas of Bangladesh, triggering panic in the capital Dhaka as people rushed out onto the streets.
In the garment manufacturing hub of Savar, on the outskirts of Dhaka, at least 50 workers were injured after the quake set off a stampede in a garment factory, according to the private Jamuna television.
The area has a history of earthquakes, with a 6.8 magnitude quake that hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people. A magnitude 8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and eastern India in 1934.

PHOTO: EPA
The earthquake measuring 7.9 magnitude left buildings collapsed, injured many and left a pall of dust over the city, witnesses said.

PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
“Everything started shaking. Everything fell down. The walls around the main road have collapsed. The national stadium’s gates have collapsed,” Anupa Shrestha, another witness said.

PHOTO: AFP
Speaking to AFP, metropolitan police spokesperson Dinesh Acharya said “our focus is on rescue in the core areas of Kathmandu where the population is concentrated,” adding that “many houses and buildings have collapsed.

PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Initially, the death toll was expected to rise significantly as Kathmandu’s decrepit buildings, crisscrossed by narrow alleys, are home to large families.

PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A 1934 quake of magnitude 8.3 in the impoverished Himalayan nation killed over 8,500 people.
The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport, in a potential blow to relief efforts.

PHOTO: AFP
The airport’s general manager, Birendra Prasad Shrestha, said it would remain closed “for safety reasons” at least until later in the afternoon.

PHOTO: EPA

PHOTO: TWEET QUAKE

PHOTO: SHEELENDRA SHAKYA

PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mohammad Shahab, a resident from Lahore, Pakistan, said he was sitting in his office when the earthquake rocked the city near the border with India, according to The Guardian.

People take refuge at a school following the earthquake. PHOTO: REUTERS
At the main hospital in Kathmandu, people with broken limbs and arms were being rushed in for treatment.

People take refuge at a school following the earthquake. PHOTO: REUTERS
A girl died after a statue fell on her in a park in Kathmandu, a witness said, while another died in India when her house collapsed.

People take refuge at a school following the earthquake. PHOTO: REUTERS
A historic tower built in the 19th century in Kathmandu collapsed, trapping at least 50 people, Nepalese media reported. The Dharara Tower, built in 1832, had been open to visitors for the last 10 years and had a viewing balcony on its eighth floor. One body was removed from the tower and a second lay further up the road, a Reuters witness said.

PHOTO: TWEET QUAKE

People take refuge at a school following the earthquake. PHOTO: REUTERS

PHOTO: REUTERS
A Reuters reporter in Kathmandu said he had seen some buildings collapse and walls of several houses reduced to rubble.

PHOTO: AFP
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif expresses grief and sorrow
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif expressed deep grief and sorrow over the loss of precious lives in the earthquake which hit earlier today, Radio Pakistan reported.
Nawaz also called his Nepalese counterpart Sushil Koiral on Friday and extended his condolences and sympathies on the deaths caused by the massive earthquake. He expressed his deep shock at the devastation caused said that Pakistan was ready to provide every possible assistance and inquired about the nature of relief immediately required.
According to a statement released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government has instructed its diplomatic missions in Nepal and India to approach the host government to ascertain the damage caused and to convey requirements for relief assistance. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has also been readied to provide the relief assistance at a short notice.
Four C-130 planes comprising of medicines, medical team, 30-bed hospital, search and rescue experts, dry food, tents and blankets are ready to fly to Kathmandu.
To provide relief to the earthquake victims in Nepal four  C-130 aircrafts  carrying  30-bedded hospital comprising a team of doctors and specialists from the Pakistan army including surgical, medical, orthopedic, gynaecologist, anaesthisiologist, child specialist, radiologist and paramedics.
Furthermore, an urban search and rescue team of Pakistan Army, which is highly specialised for rescue during natural disasters, is also being sent. The urban search and rescue team is equipped with ground penetrating radars, concrete cutter. The team is specially trained to search people trapped in rubble. It will also carry sniffing dogs
Food items being dispatched include 2,000 meal-ready-to-eat packs, eatables, water bottles, medicines, 200 tents, 600 blankets and other necessary items. These items will be dispatched on Sunday.
President Mamnoon Hussain has also expressed deep shock and sadness over the loss of life in Nepal and Northern India.
Acting President Senator Mian Raza Rabbani has also expressed condolences over loss of life in the tragedy.
Twitter condolences 
People across the globe took to social media to share their sympathies with the people of Nepal including Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home & in Nepal.
— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 25, 2015

Prayers & condolences for the people of Nepal & around affected by the earthquake! May those harmed get help ASAP!
— Tusshar (@TusshKapoor) April 25, 2015

Earthquake is a natural phenomenon, sadly it causes huge tragic damages.
*stay strong Nepal*
— Cosetta (@Parvati786) April 25, 2015

T 1845 – O ! God .. this is Nepal earthquake ..!!! I shot a song here for 'Mahaan' with Zeenat Aman .. pray all well pic.twitter.com/Q8ZcMaB57C
— Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) April 25, 2015

Bhaktapur, #Nepal today – more from my sister. #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/GR9j6nlJSZ
— Molly Hunter (@mollymhunter) April 25, 2015

The extent of destruction in #Katmandu #Nepalquake @ibnlive via @iHunnt pic.twitter.com/3IcZKm9twz
— megha mamgain (@meghamamgain) April 25, 2015

Distressed by news of powerful earthquake in Nepal. Our thoughts & prayers are with the people of Nepal. pic.twitter.com/QkNGwLEhWo
— Maumoon Abdul Gayoom (@maumoonagayoom) April 25, 2015

My god!Massive earthquake in Nepal.So much demolition.My heart goes out to d people.Prayers!emergency contacts below pic.twitter.com/S98MnFYa8q
— Surveen Chawla (@SurveenChawla) April 25, 2015

Some friends in Sydney who come from #Nepal can't reach their families. My prayers are with them. #NepalEarthquake #Nepalquake #earthquake
— Shuja Rabbani (@ShujaRabbani) April 25, 2015






Like Us On Facebook


Follow Us On Twitter









Get News Every Evening


Your Email Address





Great! You'll get your first email soon.












Related Stories
09 Apr 2015Tremors Felt: Earthquake jolts Swat Valley16 Feb 2015Tremors: Earthquake strikes Shangla 21 Mar 2015Strong earthquake jolts parts of K-P






Reader Comments (14)




All Comments


Reader's Recommendations








zafar Iqbal

Apr 25, 2015 - 7:55PM 

Reply




My heart goes out to the People of Nepal.
Is there anything we can do sitting here in Pakistan?Recommend


 





Animal Farm

Apr 25, 2015 - 9:51PM 

Reply




@zafar Iqbal:
You can donate to organizations like UNICEF….Post that in your social media and encourage others to do soRecommend


 





Rakesh

Apr 25, 2015 - 11:29PM 

Reply




It is the responsibility of Indians to help our brothers and sisters in Nepal in all possible ways. Does anyone know places where we can donate money for a relief fund for Nepal?Recommend


 





Sasa

Apr 26, 2015 - 12:02AM 

Reply




@Rakesh: You can donate it to Prime ministers relief fund, Best way to send support instead of an NGO
https://pmnrf.gov.in/Recommend


 





Fi

Apr 26, 2015 - 12:21AM 

Reply




De javu of 2005 earthquake in Pakistan. May God be with everyone in this troubled time of Nepal. Sad!Recommend


 





usman777

Apr 26, 2015 - 1:18AM 

Reply




Whenever I have met Nepalis abroad they have had very kind words to say for Pakistan. I have no idea why (as this does not happen much). Pakistan govt. should do our best no matter how small to lend a hand to Nepal.
Rakesh, google where you can donate…. making big claims about India’s largesse on a Pakistani newspaper is not going to help anyone.Recommend


 





goggi (Lahore)

Apr 26, 2015 - 1:47AM 

Reply




In silence I feel and share the pain and grief of the people of Nepal. I am speechless. This beautiful country is the birthplace of my spiritual teacher Shakyamuni. With friends I have organized a Fundraiser.Recommend


 





mak

Apr 26, 2015 - 2:49AM 

Reply




May Allah help the people of Nepal through this devastation. My heart goes out to those who have list their loved ones, homes, livelihoods, etcRecommend


 





kulwant singh

Apr 26, 2015 - 7:42AM 

Reply




@usman777: The Govt of India immediately acted and the NDRF teams in four transport plans of the IAF three from Hinddon and one from Bhatinda reached Nepal, why you people are so jelous but we can not expect any thing better from you.Recommend


 





Tani

Apr 26, 2015 - 8:47AM 

Reply




@usman777:
He’s not making big claims but stating the facts. See which came first to relief efforts and has provided has maximum and still increasing it.
Even for economy, unlike other countries that only give loans, we give them more of aid in millions and billions and less loans. We have open border with them. Nepalis can work and buy land in india. A facility offered to no other country. Even a Saarc summit organised there they take India’s resources and cooperation without us ever objecting it. Remember the indian car your pm rejected offered by Nepal? Recommend


 





Chakbo Nepali

Apr 26, 2015 - 9:12AM 

Reply




@Rakesh: Prime Minister’s Relief Fund, as an Indian, you must have known this. 
15 IAF helicopters and 6 Fixed wing Aircrafts have been pressed into service in Nepal, Air India and Indian Private Airliners – Indigo, Jet Airways and Spice Jet are operating free sorties to Carry Relief Materials, Doctors and Associated Staffs. Indian Railways also supplying relief materials.
Delhi Gurudwara has sent 25000 packets of foods and pledged to supply every day. 15000 Strong Indian NDRF team and BRO team is carrying out Rescue and relief operation alongside Nepalese Army. Indian Army mountaineering team is in Everest Base Camp and they are pressed into rescue operations. Aero Medical Team of IAF is in Place and Indian doctors are reaching in Numbers in Kathmandu. Food, Tents and Medicines have already reached Kathmandu from India.
3000 RSS Sayam Sevaks reached here. Indian PM pledged to extend every possible help in Rebuilding efforts.
Rescue Teams from other countries are expected soon. Hope Nepal will get over from the rumbles soon.Recommend


 





Abdul Sattar Qamar

Apr 26, 2015 - 9:22AM 

Reply




May Almighty help the people of Nepal who faced a vast devastation and killing of more than 1300 people and injuring thousands of Nepalese including children and women.Pakistanis have sent four planes loaded with essential items for their immediate helpRecommend


 





Rakesh

Apr 26, 2015 - 9:56AM 

Reply




@Sasa:
Thanks Sasa.Recommend


 





shahbaaz hussain

Apr 26, 2015 - 10:39AM 

Reply




Now Nepal needs our extensive monetary and manual efforts, bare from countries of origin, we can think as humans, put ourself to extend our supports through available means from our countries.The pain is same wherever it hurts, whether in nepal or india or pakistan or anywhere in the world. we all human race need to come together.Recommend


 



 MORE 







Leave Your Reply Below Click here to cancel reply.




Name (required) 




Email 




Location 




Web 




Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.













Notify me of followup comments via e-mail






Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ.



 Notify me of new posts by email. 










Connect With
Tribune
News


Like Us On Facebook
Follow Us On Twitter







Get News Every Evening


Your Email Address





Great! You'll get your first email soon.




Pakistan Latest Stories






Spain proposes new 'kebab law'


The laws propos­es to put condit­ions on commer­cial licens­es for Kebab shops in Spain 

Web Desk










NA-125: PML-N to appeal election tribunal’s verdict in SC


Ahsan Iqbal says PML-N believ­es accept­ing electi­on tribun­al's decisi­on could set a danger­ous preced­ent 

Web Desk










One killed as 'terrorists' attack football match in Kurram school


Gunmen attack Ali Zai High School in lower Kurram­ 

Web Desk










Floyd Mayweather agrees to fight Amir Khan at Wembley


Amir has been trying to face-off agains­t Maywea­ther for over two years now 

Sports Desk










Authors boycott ceremony as Charlie Hebdo feted in New York


Some 200 of PEN's 4,000 member­s signed a letter protes­ting agains­t the choice­ 

AFP 










Qazi Khalilullah replaces Tasnim Aslam as new FO spokesperson


Source­s say Aslam, who is also additi­onal secret­ary UN, steppe­d down due to 'burden of dual respon­sibili­ty' 

Our Correspondent










NADRA will release report exposing ‘rigging’ in NA-122: Imran Khan


Says his party will initia­te crimin­al procee­dings agains­t return­ing office­rs (ROs) involv­ed in riggin­g 

Web Desk










Azhar, Younus make most of Bangladesh's no-ball woes


The pair looked in comman­d on anothe­r placid battin­g track in the series­ 

Emmad Hameed










Don’t make character assessments from what you read about me: Ranbir


The young Kapoor is tired of the media frenzy surrou­nding his person­al life 

Entertainment Desk










Nepal devastation a 'wake-up call' for Pakistan


In Pakist­an, the bounda­ry betwee­n the two tecton­ic plates cuts throug­h almost the entire length of the countr­y 

AFP 




Recent Slideshows











Let the adventure begin





A spring fling 





Sunday Snaps: May 3, 2015





Majestic Wazir Khan Mosque





Recent Videos











PPP knows how to defend Sindh: Nisar Ali Khuhro





Gone for years, but nowhere near forgotten





Election tribunal rules in favour of PTI in NA-125, announces re-polling





Zulfiqar Mirza storms police station, manhandles officials in Badin




 





More in Pakistan15 passengers injured as car falls into ravine in Islamabad






Pakistan SindhPunjabBalochistanKP & FATAJammu & KashmirGilgit BaltistanLife & Style BooksMusicTV & FilmFashionFoodGossipMultimedia SlideshowsVideosOpinion EditorialLetters
A -- Z

Blogs
BusinessWorldSportsMagazine

 
Others

About us
RSS Feeds
Google+
Subscribe to the Paper
Contact us
Careers
Style Guide
Online Advertising Tariff
Copyrights
Code of ethics





This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2015 The Express Tribune News Network.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
















































