Typhoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas — About Plan — Plan InternationalTyphoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas — About Plan — Plan International
[skip to content]

Plan International
Sponsor a child
Media

Resources

Contact

Jobs

FAQ




Plan InternationalHome
About Plan
What we do
Where we work
What you can do



You are here:
Home »

About Plan »
              
           
      

Resources »
              
           
      

Media centre »
              
           
      

Press releases »
              
           
      

          
              
              Typhoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas
           
      




How we work


Finance


Who's who


History


Contact us


Resources

News


Blog


Media centre

Press releases



Publications


Videos


Policy papers


Schools


Virtual village


FAQ



Annual review


Jobs






                
                 
              

Info


Typhoon Hagupit: Plan responds in worst-hit areas




Families sheltering in a school. Typhoon Hagupit forced 1 million people to evacuate their homes.
Plan pre-positioned relief items in communities in the typhoon's path.
Debris from the storm littered roads in Tacloban.
Many electrical posts have been damaged.
A family returning to their home after sheltering in an evacuation centre.
Plan emergency teams are assessing needs in some of the worst-hit areas.
Vital pre-positioned relief items - including shelter, water and hygiene kits - are now being distributed to affected families.



9 December 2014: Plan International emergency response teams are on the ground in the Philippines conducting quick assessments and distributing pre-positioned relief items in communities worst-hit by Typhoon Hagupit.
The typhoon, known locally as Ruby, has weakened further as it continues to head out of Philippine territory, with the state weather bureau lifting storm signals for the whole country.
The storm left in its wake more than 20 casualties, a million people evacuated from their homes and significant damage to infrastructure and agriculture.
Flooding and landslides
In Eastern Visayas, a region still recovering from last year’s super typhoon Haiyan, Plan teams report that electricity and communications are still out or intermittent in many areas. Landslides and damaged roads are hampering relief efforts in the northern towns of Eastern Samar province where Hagupit made landfall Saturday evening.
In Masbate province, where the typhoon lingered longest for almost a whole day, flooded roads and damaged bridges make it difficult for response teams to reach affected towns right after the storm.
“Now the real work begins,” says Carin van der Hor, Plan International Country Director for the Philippines.
“After being well prepared for Hagupit, Plan teams based in worst-hit provinces have started making rounds as early as Sunday to check the situation in affected areas and assess the most-pressing needs of typhoon survivors.”
Distributing aid
Plan teams in Tacloban, Borongan, Catbalogan, Catarman and Masbate are also coordinating with the national and local governments and partner aid agencies in conducting the assessments, to ensure that results feed into cohesive and efficient typhoon response efforts.
“Plan has also begun distributing pre-positioned relief in affected communities. These include 3,499 shelter kits 5,500 water kits, 5,500 hygiene kits and 4,100 infant kits enough for 14,499 families or 76,595 individuals,” says van der Hor.
“The enormous effort of the government evacuating hundreds of thousands of people from unsafe zones prevented the potential loss of many lives. Plan will ensure that this life-saving measure will be complemented as we begin timely assessment and distribution of pre-positioned relief items in affected communities.”
Aside from vital aid, Plan, as a child-centred humanitarian organisation, also ensures that affected young boys and girls are protected from harm and their unique needs addressed.
Plan and the Philippine government’s Climate Change Commission are partners in advocating child-centred disaster risk reduction and management in the country.
Find out more about Plan’s work in the PhilippinesMedia contacts:
Plan International Philippines Country Director Carin Van der Hor and Emergency Response Manager Richard Sandison are available for interview by mobile phone. Deputy Country Director for Programs Marco Savio is also available for interviews in French and Italian. To arrange interviewsand for all other media inquiries, please call Cynthia Arce, Communication Manager, Mobile: +63 (0) 917 832 5723, or Chris Sibugon, Communication Officer, Mobile +63 (0) 917 514 5738. 
 






Share this page:

Facebook


del.icio.us


Digg


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


My Space



        Send to a friend
      








Email news signup form
Sign up for news:
What will I receive?







                
                 
              




© Copyright 2015 Plan


Sitemap


Accessibility


Terms and conditions


Privacy and Cookies


Child Protection





