Plan’s Response — Where we work — Plan InternationalPlan’s Response — Where we work — Plan International
[skip to content]

Philippines
Support the appeal
Media

Resources

Contact

Jobs

FAQ




Plan Philippines
Plan Asia
Plan Home



You are here:
Home »

Where we work »
              
           
      

Asia »
              
           
      

Philippines »
              
           
      

What we do  »
              
           
      

Typhoon Haiyan response »
              
           
      

          
              
              Plan’s Response
           
      




About Plan in Philippines


What we do 

Our successes


Typhoon Haiyan response

Plan’s Response


Appeal


Impact



The Youth Reporter Project



Where we work


What you can do 






                
                 
              

Info


Plan’s Response

As the Philippines embarks on a long process towards rehabilitation after Typhoon Haiyan, Plan emergency response teams on the ground are working closely with affected children, families and communities to support them towards recovery and building back better, stronger, together.
Massive response
Typhoon Haiyan ((known locally as Yolanda) lashed through central Philippines on the morning of 8 November 2013 and was recorded as one of the most violent typhoons to make landfall. The Category 5 storm caused widespread devastation across two-thirds of the country, taking the lives of more than 6,300 people and affecting over 14 million people across 44 provinces. This included some 5 million affected children and 1.7 million displaced children. 
 More than 1.14 million houses were damaged or destroyed in the storm and all vital services were affected, including power, water supply and health services. Over 600 schools were badly damaged or destroyed.
The scale of this disaster required an unprecedented response. Plan International rapidly deployed staff and technical experts from around the world to work alongside the Plan Philippines team. Plan has worked in the country for more than 50 years and has extensive experience responding to natural disasters and other crises. We have very close links with the affected local communities, as well as the government, UN agencies and other partners.
Vital relief
Even before Haiyan hit the Philippines, Plan pre-positioned emergency supplies, including water kits and plastic sheeting for shelter, sufficient for thousands of families so that if roads became impassable, items could be quickly distributed by the community to those in need.
During the first few months of the typhoon's aftermath, Plan prioritised the delivery and provision of emergency needs, such as food, safe drinking water, medical supplies, shelter and educational resources, as well as psychological and emotional support.
For the past year, Plan’s immediate aid in 6 typhoon-affected provinces (including Plan programme unit areas and supported communities) benefitted:
Around 1.5 million people through food distribution
Over 20,000 people through water kits
More than 44,000 children with back-to-school kits 
Nearly 195,000 people through temporary shelter or support to rebuild homes
Around 21,000 children through support in child-friendly spaces



Early recovery and rehabilitation
Several months after attending to immediate needs on the ground, Plan is now shifting towards delivery of quality programmes with long-lasting benefits, which can help recovering communities prepare for future challenges and building back better and stronger together after the typhoon. These include:
transitional shelter for displaced families in Tacloban, the most devastated urban centre along the path of Haiyan
community rehabilitation through cash-for-work activities 
construction and repair of classrooms, health facilities and water systems
mobile health services, including services in maternal, newborn and child health and reproductive health
training communities in improved capacities for education, health, protection and psychosocial support for children, as well as women, in times of emergencies.



Encouraging children and youth participation
With young people at the heart of everything we do, it is highly important that we empower young survivors to be active participants in the typhoon response. Through Plan’s strategic alliances with other child-centred humanitarian organisations, rapid assessments and other forums have been organised to involve children and youth  in disaster risk reduction planning, disaster response evaluations and post-disaster needs assessments.
Plan is also engaging young typhoon survivors in more creative ways through The Youth Reporter Project, providing them not just the right tools and channels for communicating their messages, but also an opportunity for them to take charge of their future.
Support the appeal
To date, Plan has raised US$61 million to help 1.3 million Filipinos affected by Haiyan to rebuild their lives. We need another $9.5 million to complete our recovery work in badly-affected areas over a 3-year period.
More than ever, we call on the generosity of donors around the world to support our efforts for affected communities on their journey to recovery.
Please help us build back better, stronger, together for the Philippines. Donate to our disaster relief fund today.
Girls' needs
Read the action points that Plan and partners are working on to address the specific needs of adolescent girls affected by Typhoon Haiyan.
Sponsored children
Thank you to those Plan supporters who have contacted us to express their support for the children and communities affected by Typhoon Haiyan. Our thanks also to those who have asked for updates on the status of sponsored children living in the areas affected by typhoon.
We have been working round-the-clock to deliver life-saving aid to communities affected by this unprecedented disaster and have now accounted for all sponsored children. We are deeply saddened to advise that 8 sponsored children from Eastern Samar Province died during or immediately after the typhoon.
All sponsors of these children (living in Finland, Germany, Norway and the USA) have now been contacted with this news. We are sure you will join us in sending our condolences to those who are grieving for these children and the thousands more that died during this tragic storm.






Share this page:

Facebook


del.icio.us


Digg


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


My Space



        Send to a friend
      







Latest items


Now the storm has passed


In pictures: Typhoon Haiyan recovery 










                
                 
              




© Copyright 2015 Plan


Sitemap


Accessibility


Terms and conditions


Privacy and Cookies


Child Protection





