
	Typhoon Haiyan - One Year  - International Medical Corps


	Typhoon Haiyan - One Year  - International Medical Corps









































ABOUT



Mission & History
Leadership
Partnerships
Financial Reports
Ensuring Quality
Contact Us




OUR PROGRAMS



Our Approach
Program Priorities

Emergency Response & Preparedness
Capacity Strengthening
Women's & Children's Health and Well-Being
Mental Health
Clean Water, Sanitation & Hygiene


Additional Technical Expertise

Fragile States
Gender-Based Violence
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Diseases
Livelihoods & Agriculture
Logistics
Nutrition & Food Security
Pandemic Preparedness
Refugee Populations


Where We Work




HOW YOU CAN HELP



Donate
 Make a Tribute Gift
Other Ways to Give
Volunteer
Work With Us






Find us on social networks

Twitter
Facebook
YouTube




NEWS



Philippines Emergency Response
Press Releases
Feature Stories
Video
Media Coverage




CAREERS



Work With Us
See Current Openings












Search:





Search





























Typhoon Haiyan
Honoring One Year










One-year after Typhoon Haiyan devastated the Philippines, International Medical Corps‘ teams are still on the ground delivering critical health care and training services to help communities return to self-reliance.






Within 24 hours, our First Responders were able to deliver emergency medical services and relief in the aftermath of the typhoon which left widespread devastation and claimed 6,000 lives. When many international organizations left the island nation after the initial emergency ended, International Medical Corps stayed and set up programs to help victims recover long-term. Today, we are providing services in health and capacity strengthening, nutrition, mental health and water sanitation and hygiene in 17 municipalities in Leyte, the Province most affected by the typhoon.










Nutrition
International Medical Corps is working in four municipalities to implement programs that manage and treat acute malnutrition, as well as promote infant and young child feeding. International Medical Corps teams have screened over 49, 800 children for acute malnutrition, in addition to distributing supplemental foods and establishing in- and out-patient treatment centers. We also trained over 600 local medical professionals on screening children under 5 for malnutrition.
Health & Capacity Strengthening
In the Philippines and around the world, International Medical Corps is working to strengthen the capacity of local health staff to respond to the medical needs of their own communities. We implemented trainings in 7 municipalities on prevention of disease outbreaks and promotion of reproductive and maternal health. International Medical Corps trained 345 health care workers on these topics. We also trained 11 people on SPEED (Surveillance in Post Emergency and Extreme Disasters). International Medical Corps rehabilitated and repaired 21 health facilities that were severely damaged by the storm. In addition, we provided medicines and replaced medical equipment and supplies that were lost or destroyed in the typhoon.


Mental Health
As one of the few organizations to prioritize mental health, International Medical Corps has implemented psychosocial support services and enhanced the capacity of national staff in the Philippines through training and education. The program includes sensitization training to develop improved local response systems in order to help care for individuals with mental illness.
WASH
The typhoon caused large-scale damage to local water and sanitation infrastructure, which in turn threatened the health status of vulnerable communities – particularly children. Schools were especially affected and lack of adequate WASH facilities puts students at risk of communicable diseases. To respond to this need, International Medical Corps rehabilitated damaged toilets and hand-washing systems at 51 schools and continues work in 44 others. In addition, International Medical Corps hygiene promoters have provided trainings in 130 schools to 1,041 teachers. They trained 322 students and 124 teachers as hygiene champions to train others.







Watch Niño's First Responder story and hear how he's continuing to help his community recover after Typhoon Haiyan.



Watch Lorilee's First Responder story and hear how she's continuing to help her community recover after Typhoon Haiyan.



Watch The Filharmonic's musical performance at our 2014 Annual Awards Celebration.




Donate to our efforts around the world







Sign up to receive updates

***



GET CONNECTED


 Like Us on Facebook
 Follow us on Twitter
 Follow us on Instagram








RECENT NEWS

• MTV Voices: Typhoon Haiyan: How it Changed My Life 
• International Medical Corps Delivering Long-term Health Care Programs in Philippines Following Typhoon Haiyan
 
• International Medical Corps Delivering Lifesaving Medical Supplies Following Typhoon Haiyan
• International Medical Corps Fights Acute Malnutrition in Children in Philippines
• Treating the Mental Health Consequences of Typhoon Haiyan
• Music For Relief Partners With International Medical Corps in Response to Typhoon Haiyan to Provide Immediate Relief
• Wells Fargo Donates $250,000 for Typhoon Haiyan Relief Efforts
VIEW MORE 









Learn More About Our Work


Where We Work


Donate Today










 



Program Priorities
Emergency Response & Preparedness Capacity Strengthening Women’s & Children’s Health Clean Water, Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health  Additional Technical Expertise

 

About
History Our Approach Where We Work FAQ  Contact


Be Involved
Ways to Donate Gift Catalog Follow Us Work with Us


News
Press Releases Media Coverage Featured Content Videos


More
Facebook PinterestTwitter  Youtube  My Account








 

Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed by International Medical Corps under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United States License

 











Privacy Policy - Terms & Conditions - Copyright ©2013, International Medical Corps® All rights reserved









 




