
	2014_03_28_Medical Supplies to Philippines  - International Medical Corps


	2014_03_28_Medical Supplies to Philippines  - International Medical Corps













































ABOUT



Mission & History
Leadership
Partnerships
Financial Reports
Ensuring Quality
Contact Us




OUR PROGRAMS



Our Approach
Program Priorities

Emergency Response & Preparedness
Capacity Strengthening
Women's & Children's Health and Well-Being
Mental Health
Clean Water, Sanitation & Hygiene


Additional Technical Expertise

Fragile States
Gender-Based Violence
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Diseases
Livelihoods & Agriculture
Logistics
Nutrition & Food Security
Pandemic Preparedness
Refugee Populations


Where We Work




HOW YOU CAN HELP



Donate
 Make a Tribute Gift
Other Ways to Give
Volunteer
Work With Us






Find us on social networks

Twitter
Facebook
YouTube




NEWS



Philippines Emergency Response
Press Releases
Feature Stories
Video
Media Coverage




CAREERS



Work With Us
See Current Openings












Search:





Search





























International Medical Corps Delivering Lifesaving Medical Supplies Following Typhoon Haiyan
 




  International Medical Corps volunteer nurses and doctors prepare to deliver much-needed medical supplies to hard-to-reach inland municipalities in Leyte.

 

  Confronted with damaged roads and flooded paths, International Medical Corps staff carried supplies by foot, sometimes walking as far as five kilometers to reach communities in need.

 

Typhoon Haiyan hit the Visayas Region of the Philippines with wind speeds equivalent to a Category 5 hurricane. The strongest storm of 2013, Haiyan devastated parts of Leyte, Panay, and Samar Islands, causing over 6,200 deaths, affecting 14 million people, damaging infrastructure, disrupting livelihoods, and halting agricultural production.
 
As International Medical Corps rapidly deployed an Emergency Response Team, International Health Partners – UK (IHP-UK) immediately reached out to offer lifesaving Doctors’ Travel Packs. With IHP-UK’s support, we flew a pallet of nine Doctors’ Travel Packs into our logistics hub in Cebu, and then followed up with a second shipment of nine more packs a few weeks later. Each Doctors’ Travel Pack contains over 60 of the most essential medicines for an emergency setting - including lifesaving antibiotics, anti-inflammatories, analgesics, and medicines for other acute conditions. Altogether, these packs contain enough medicine to administer over 18,000 treatments.
 
International Medical Corps arrived in Tacloban, Leyte on November 18th and immediately began assessing the situation, coordinating with local authorities and international actors, and identifying the most urgent health needs. With the majority of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) initially focused on Tacloban City, International Medical Corps ventured further south in Leyte, basing its efforts in seven of the most devastated and underserved municipalities. With support from IHP-UK, International Medical Corps worked with Stanford University, Massachusetts General Hospital and Medical Teams International  to mobilize mobile medical units and provide essential medicines, supplies, primary and emergency care, and mental health and psychosocial support to underserved municipalities. From November 20-December 21, International Medical Corps mobile medical teams conducted over 14,000 consultations in 3 hard-hit regions.
 
Three months after Typhoon Haiyan hit the Visayas Region, Nurse Evangeline Matoza of the MacArthur, Leyte Rural Health Unit (RHU) describes the challenges that her facility faced in caring for the 19,000 citizens of her city. “Right after the typhoon hit,” Nurse Matoza says, “we went to the places where our patients had been evacuated… to the high school and the municipal hall. There were so many people that needed care, mostly for lacerations and other open wounds.”
 
Yet while the number of patients increased, Nurse Matoza and her colleagues were faced with dwindling supplies: “The main problem was the drug supply -- we consumed our supply of antibiotics and the first aid supplies within three days.” Relief came through government and NGO systems, but the health workers at MacArthur RHU still struggled to keep up with the high demand for health care supplies. “A few days after the typhoon, we received our first shipment of much-needed drugs and water purifiers,” she says, “but it was still not enough.”
 
“That’s why we were so grateful when the mobile medical units started,” Nurse Matoza continues. “International Medical Corps and other NGOs really helped ease the burden on us. When your teams came, they would go directly to the barangays (communities), and reach the injured people that we could not reach.” As her community moves from emergency response to building a more sustainable recovery, Nurse Matoza is grateful for the ongoing support of organizations like International Medical Corps: “You gave us supplies that we are still using to care for our patients. We need to do this to heal our community.”
 
Nurse Matoza continues, “After the typhoon, there was no one we could refer our patients to. I had one post-partum patient with complications, we thought that she might have eclampsia. Normally, I would send her to the hospital, but we had no way to get her there. So we cared for her ourselves, and we are proud to say that she is doing fine now. We are grateful that you helped us offer this kind of care.”
 
IHP-UK’s quick action and rapid donations allowed International Medical Corps to provide lifesaving medical care where those affected by Typhoon Haiyan needed it the most.










Share





Facebook





digg





Delicious





Yahoo!

















Where We Work  

Afghanistan
Kenya
Burundi
Lebanon
Cameroon
Liberia
CAR
Libya
Chad 
Mali
Darfur
Nigeria
D.R. Congo
Pakistan
Ethiopia
Philippines
Gaza
Russian Fed.
Haiti
Sierra Leone
Indonesia
Somalia
Iraq
South Sudan
Japan
Syria
Jordan
Turkey
Liberia
Yemen
Zimbabwe




 

 

**


MORE ON PHILIPPINES
December 4, 2014 - International Medical Corps Teams on Standby as Super Typhoon Hagupit Heads for Philippines
November 19, 2014 - Meet Kate: A High School Student in the Philippines Selected as a Hygiene Champion
March 28, 2014 - International Medical Corps Delivering Lifesaving Medical Supplies Following Typhoon Haiyan
March 26, 2014 - International Medical Corps Fights Acute Malnutrition in Children in Philippines 
MORE... 








 


 
 For Syrian Refugees, the War Behind, the Recovery Ahead 
The Syrian conflict has created the largest humanitarian crisis in the world today.


 
 On the Ground in India Following Massive Cyclone Phailin 
International Medical Corps’ Emergency Response Team is on the ground in India following Cyclone Phailin, a catastrophic storm roughly the size of Hurricane Katrina, that struck the country’s eastern coast in October.


 
 Q&A with Colleen Fitzgerald 
Learn more about our mental health and psychosocial programs in Libya.


 
 Critical Health Services Reach Underserved Communities in Northern Mali 
International Medical Corps is working in the north of Mali, providing emergency health, nutrition and protection services to Malians affected by the conflict.



 5-year project to reach 50,000 in DRC
The Care, Access, Safety, & Empowerment and Behavior Change Communications projects are complementary programs addressing the needs of gender-based violence survivors while also preventing future cases.















 



Program Priorities
Emergency Response & Preparedness Capacity Strengthening Women’s & Children’s Health Clean Water, Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health  Additional Technical Expertise

 

About
History Our Approach Where We Work FAQ  Contact


Be Involved
Ways to Donate Gift Catalog Follow Us Work with Us


News
Press Releases Media Coverage Featured Content Videos


More
Facebook PinterestTwitter  Youtube  My Account








 

Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed by International Medical Corps under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United States License

 











Privacy Policy - Terms & Conditions - Copyright ©2013, International Medical Corps® All rights reserved












