Super Typhoon Haiyan hits Philippines with devastating force 
Super Typhoon Haiyan hits Philippines with devastating force



Sections 


Home


Arts + Culture


Economy + Business


Health + Medicine


Politics + Society


Science + Technology


Services



              Job board 
 


            Newsletter 
 

Read on Google Play


Information

Who we are 
Our charter 
Our team 
Partners and funders 
Contributing institutions 
Contact us 
Privacy policy 
Terms and conditions 
Corrections 











US
United States





          Australia
        

          United Kingdom
        

          United States
        

















Edition:


              AU
 


              UK
 


              US
 





Job Board


Newsletter











Become an author


Sign up as a reader


Sign in













Search










    Academic rigor, journalistic flair
  




Arts + Culture


Economy + Business


Health + Medicine


Politics + Society


Science + Technology









Follow Topics



Ebola


Nobel Prize 2014


Explainer


Foundation essays US


Rosetta












Down to Earth
The heights and depths of the planet, from a flatlander





Simon Redfern
 
            Professor in Earth Sciences at University of Cambridge
          



Posts by Simon Redfern



December 16 2014
                  Curiosity catches a whiff of methane on Mars – and a possibility of past life
 


October 27 2014
                  How the air we breathe was created by Earth’s tectonic plates
 


April 24 2014
                  Underwater volcano creates huge floating islands of rock, disrupts shipping
 


January 13 2014
                  How Earth’s devastating supervolcanoes erupt
 


December 12 2013
                  Cassini spots mosaic of Titanic extraterrestrial seas
 

Articles by Simon Redfern



December 17 2014
                  Curiosity catches a whiff of methane on Mars – and a possibility of past life
 


May 1 2014
                  Massive citizen-powered climate simulation links winter floods to global warming
 


April 25 2014
                  Underwater volcano creates huge floating islands of rock, disrupts shipping
 







November 7 2013, 8.31pm EST

Super Typhoon Haiyan hits Philippines with devastating force







Super Typhoon Haiyan hits the islands at the mouth of the Leyte Gulf in the Philippines.
NASA/NOAA


With sustained winds of more than 310 km/h, or 195 mph, as it approached the Philippines, Super Typhoon Haiyan has hit land in the past few hours with terrifying force. This makes it the strongest tropical cyclone to make landfall in history.
Haiyan was earlier reported to be the most intense tropical storm in this area since Super Typhoon Tip (1979), and may even have exceeded the force of Tip. It had already been recognised to be one of the four most intense storms on modern record.
Preliminary satellite estimates of the central pressure at the eye of the storm have been reported at around 860 mbar, which if confirmed would make Haiyan the strongest storm ever recorded. Its intensity is recorded as Category 5 (maximum) on the scale for tropical storms and 8.0 (maximum) on the Dvorak scale of intensity.
The US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration reports:
The intensification of Super Typhoon Haiyan is being fuelled by “ideal” environmental conditions – namely low wind shear and warm ocean temperatures. Maximum sustained winds are currently at 195 mph, well above the Category 5 classification used for Atlantic and East Pacific hurricanes.
Tropical storms such as Haiyan are known as typhoons in the Pacific, but are the same as the storms labelled hurricanes or cyclones elsewhere. Haiyan is the strongest tropical storm since Hurricane Allen (1980) which hit the Caribbean. It appears to have surpassed Hurricane Camille (1969) in making landfall with wind speeds at Category 5 level.
Already, the reasons for such extreme weather are being scrutinised. The surface water, as well as deeper water, temperatures of the Western Pacific have provided huge amounts of energy for the storm to absorb, fuelling Haiyan’s intensification.



Deep, warm water fuels Haiyan.
NOAA


Along with devastating storms, the typhoon will bring a deluge of rain and storm surge, threatening coastal areas of the Philippines with flood and destruction. As the storm progresses across the islands it is expected to weaken and dissipate, tracking towards Vietnam.
The recent IPCC report on climate change highlighted the risks associated with changes in the patterns and frequency of extreme weather events. While individual storms such as Haiyan cannot be directly attributed to such changes, the statistics of such storms will help build a picture of how climate change is affecting the planet. Climatologists are keen to develop models that provide accurate risk factors for tropical cyclones.
As the planet and particularly the oceans heat, simple physics indicates that the energy stored is likely to increase the intensity and frequency of devastating storms like Haiyan, at great cost to coastal communities.





Republish this article

    We believe in the free flow of information. We use a
    Creative Commons
    license, so you can republish our articles for free, online or in print.
  

    Republish
  


Share


 Email


 Twitter21


 Facebook


 LinkedIn


 Reddit







 6 Comments
 


 Feed
 









← Previous Down to Earth Post
November 6 2013
            Secrets revealed of ‘dash-cam’ meteorite that rocked Russia
 


Next Down to Earth Post →
November 16 2013
            Sumatran volcano springs to life, but Etna’s blowing bubbles
 










The Conversation




Community


Community standards
Republishing guidelines


 Job Board
 
 Our feeds




Company


Who we are
Our charter
Our team
Our blog
Partners and funders
Contributing institutions
Contact us




Contact


Editorial us-editorial@theconversation.com
Support support@theconversation.com



Subscribe to our Newsletters



      Email address
    


✔







Australia
au



United Kingdom
uk



United States
us












Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
Corrections









Copyright © 2010–2015, The Conversation US, Inc.











