Everest Climbers Are Killed as Nepal Quake Sets Off Avalanche - NYTimes.com 



Everest Climbers Are Killed as Nepal Quake Sets Off Avalanche - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|Everest Climbers Are Killed as Nepal Quake Sets Off Avalanche
 
Advertisement
 



 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1DwI3ue




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








 






Advertisement





Asia Pacific 
Everest Climbers Are Killed as Nepal Quake Sets Off Avalanche

By GARDINER HARRISAPRIL 25, 2015
 
Inside








Continue reading the main story
Video





Play Video|0:35
Survivors Rescued From Mount Everest




Survivors Rescued From Mount Everest

Rescue crews airlifted survivors from the Mount Everest base camp on Sunday after Nepal’s worst earthquake in 81 years triggered a series of avalanches.

                By Carsten Lillelund Pedersen on                                                    Publish Date April 26, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by Azim Afif/European Pressphoto Agency.
                            




Continue reading the main story

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
NEW DELHI —  A year after a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest ended the climbing season, multiple avalanches caused by the earthquake on Saturday rumbled down a treacherous icefall and slammed into the mountaineering base camp, killing at least 17 climbers and injuring at least 37 others, Nepalese officials said.Alex Gavan, a hiker at the base camp, described on Twitter a “huge earthquake then huge avalanche” that sent him “running for life from my tent.” Mr. Gavan warned that many of the wounded would die if they were not evacuated soon. Nima Namgyal Sherpa, a guide at the base camp, said the avalanche caused many injuries. Nepalese tourism officials feared hundreds of climbers may have died.“Many camps have been destroyed by the shake and wind from the avalanche,” Mr. Sherpa, the base camp manager for Asian Trekking, wrote in a post on Facebook. “All the doctors here are doing our best to treat and save lives.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900APRIL 25, 2015












‘Google Adventurer’ Dies on Mt. EverestAPRIL 25, 2015












Ancient Collision Made Nepal Earthquake InevitableAPRIL 25, 2015












Firsthand Accounts of Nepal EarthquakeAPRIL 25, 2015







Tempting death has always been part of the treacherous Everest experience, but these past two years have been particularly deadly. Last year, about 30 men were crossing a notorious area known by some local residents as the Golden Gate because of the shape of its ice formations when a huge chunk of ice cascaded down the mountain’s south side around 6:30 a.m. and engulfed them, killing 16.
Continue reading the main story

Slide Show





Slide Show|6 Photos
Searching for Survivors at Mount Everest




Searching for Survivors at Mount Everest

CreditRoberto Schmidt/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        





That avalanche, and the outrage among the Sherpas  over their pay and safety conditions, forced the cancellation of the climbing  season, a key part of Nepal’s tourism industry, and Tulasi Prasad Gautam, director general of the Nepal Tourism Department, said that “climbing Mount Everest may be canceled this year as well.”In last year’s accident, no foreign climbers were killed, partly because of the early hour. The climbers were Sherpas, members of an ethnic group known for their climbing acumen and who often use Sherpa as a surname. They are paid by foreign climbers to do the dangerous tasks of fixing ropes, carrying supplies and setting up camps.Saturday’s quake struck just before noon local time, making it likely that more people would have been climbing. One of those killed at the base camp was Dan Fredinburg, a Google engineer and avid climber who had sought to take the company’s Street View project to the world’s highest mountains. “Sadly, we lost one of our own,” Google said in a statement.Arjun Vajpai, a professional mountaineer, was on Makalu, a mountain in the Himalayas southeast of Everest, near the Nepal-China border, when the earthquake struck.“We’ve had a lot of disturbance here due to the earthquake,” he said in a video he posted to Facebook from his campsite.
Continue reading the main story


            Earthquake Causes Avalanche on Everest        

            The earthquake that occurred near Katmandu, Nepal, touched off an avalanche on Mount Everest, causing injuries and deaths during prime climbing season.        















Mt. Everest summit
29,035 FT.


Mt. Lhotse
27,940 FT.


Camp 4
26,300 ft.


Upper Slopes


Camp 3
23,500 ft.


The avalanche trapped climbers on the upper slopes.


North
Face


Lhotse
Face


Camp 2
21,000 ft.


Approximate location of the avalanche that killed 16 a year ago.


Camp 1


19,500 ft.


Members of an expedition report no injuries from Saturday’s avalanche. 
“Our camp was in a good place, we got dusted but here at Camp 1 we were just fine.”


Khumbu Icefall


At least some portion of Saturday’s avalanche occurred along the Khumbu Icefall.


Base Camp


17,500 ft.


Reports of multiple deaths and injuries.









Mt. Everest summit
29,035 FT.


Camp 4


Upper Slopes


The avalanche trapped climbers on the upper slopes.


Camp 3


Camp 2


Camp 1


Members of an expedition report no injuries from Saturday’s avalanche. 
“Our camp was in a good place, we got dusted but here at Camp 1 we were just fine.”


Khumbu Icefall


At least some portion of Saturday’s avalanche occurred along here.


Base Camp


Reports of multiple
deaths and injuries.


The New York Times; 2008 Photograph by Grant Dixon/Hedgehog House, via getty IMAGES






 


            Sources: Alan Arnette, a professional mountaineer; report from Camp 1 is from RMI Expeditions blog. Photograph by Grant Dixon/Hedgehog House, via Getty Images        

APRIL 25, 2015
            By The New York Times        


In the video, he points to a mountain visible behind him and says there have been a few avalanches in the area, as well as rockfalls. Most climbers on his team were fine, he said, but he had not yet heard from climbers who moved to other camps.Ang Sherpa, an experienced guide, said in an interview on Saturday that about 800 people were already staying at the Everest base camp, which is always a somewhat chaotic collection of tents, equipment and exhausted climbers and their attendants. A helicopter rescue operation to the base camp was planned for Sunday morning, he said, when a full tally of the dead and injured should become available.Continue reading the main story

Continue reading the main story
The first word of the death of Mr. Fredinburg, the Google engineer, came in an Instagram message from his sister Megan. “I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn’t make it,” she wrote.Mr. Fredinburg had worked at Google since 2007 and described himself as “Google Adventurer.” He worked on Google’s privacy team, recently advising on high-profile projects, including the self-driving car and Project Loon, an attempt to use stratospheric balloons to deliver high-speed Internet to rural areas and the developing world.He had led a number of expeditions to the Everest area, taking images for Google’s Street View project. “While there’s nothing quite like standing on the mountain,” he wrote in a blog post in 2013, “with Google Maps you can instantly transport yourself to the top of these peaks and enjoy the sights without all of the avalanches, rock slides, crevasses and dangers from altitude and weather that mountaineers face.”
Photo






The base camp at Mount Everest after an avalanche on Saturday. At least 17 people died, and survivors struggled amid dire conditions to care for those wounded.

Credit
            Azim Afif, via Associated Press        


Tourism accounts for much of Nepal’s economy, with Everest one of the country’s biggest draws. And though money generated by people who climb the celebrated peak constitutes only a relatively small part of the country’s overall economy, it represents one of the few ways men can earn a living in Nepal.Foreign climbers pay professional tour companies and Western guides as much as $100,000 to climb, with assistance, the 29,000-foot (8,848 meters) peak. Sherpas are hired at about $125 per climb per legal load (set at 20 pounds) to ease paying climbers’ path up the mountain.The tour agencies pay several thousand dollars per climber to the Nepalese government for a climbing license, and those fees have brought the government $3 million to $4 million annually in recent years. There is also the money to the local economy for hotels, dining and cellphone rentals, as well as the hiring of local help to carry trekkers’ supplies.Ang Sherpa said he was certain that climbing would soon resume, but with the Katmandu airport shuttered after the earthquake and the entire country paralyzed, such a prediction might be premature.Though some climbers have little or no mountaineering experience, with good weather, dozens sometimes reach the summit in a single day.But limited oxygen and sudden changes in weather that can plunge climbers into blinding snowstorms and brutally cold conditions have claimed hundreds over the years, with the bodies of some of the dead remaining frozen in place for years.


Bhadra Sharma contributed reporting from Katmandu, Nepal, and Conor Dougherty from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on April 26, 2015, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Mount Everest Climbers Killed as Quake Causes Avalanche.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












