Nepal toll rises after worst quake in decades - Al Jazeera English


Nepal toll rises after worst quake in decades - Al Jazeera English 
 


















































  























al jazeera
menu
 



submit

 
Your account
          
NewsMore
Arts & Culture
Business & Economy
Environment
Health
Humanitarian crises
Media
Poverty & Development
Politics
Science & Technology
War & Conflict

All
Africa
Asia Pacific
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada

Human Rights
Sport
In Pictures
Infographics
Blogs
Weather
#FreeAJStaff
Digital Magazine
FeaturedNepal: Mental distress rises amid the devastationDemanding democratic reform ahead of the UK election

ProgrammesMoreDocumentaries

Witness
101 East
People & Power
Al Jazeera World
Fault Lines
Lifelines
Viewfinder
The System
Al Jazeera Correspondent
Africa Investigates
Special Series
Discussions

Inside Story
The Stream
Empire
Head to Head
Talk to Al Jazeera
Newsmagazine Shows

The Listening Post
earthrise
The CURE
Counting the Cost
Innovate Africa
TechKnow
reVIEW
FeaturedRebel ArchitectureMarco Polo

Opinion
Investigations
AboutMoreAl Jazeera English

About Us
Code of Ethics
Press Office
Awards
Connect

Contact Us
Mobile
Social
Channel Finder
Newsletter
Broadcast Schedule
Podcasts
Digital Magazine
Our Network

AJ America
AJ Arabic
AJ Balkans
AJ Turk
AJ Mubasher
AJ Documentary
AJ Center for Studies
AJ Training Center
FeaturedAJ+AJ Learning




 
Topics:
Migrants 
Racism 
Israel 
Burundi 
US

 



  
Life on Hold
The struggle of Syrian refugees in LebanonWatch Now

Nigeria: Failed state or African superpower? 
Nigeria: Failed state or African superpower? 












    Natural disastersNepal toll rises after worst quake in decades

Magnitude 7.8 quake east of Pokhara kills at least 1,800 people as aftershocks continue and scale of disaster unfolds.
26 Apr 2015 02:16 GMT | Natural disasters, Asia, Nepal, India, Earthquake

The government of Nepal has declared a state of emergency after a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck the country and killed hundreds of people, touching off a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest.
Officials said that more than 1,800 people were known to have died on Saturday in Nepal's most powerful quake in decades, that struck 80km east of Pokhara, about half way between the town and the capital Kathmandu.
As aftershocks continued throughout Saturday, the toll was was expected to rise significantly as the scale of the disaster became clear.
Of the dead retrieved so far, 634 were reported dead in the Kathmandu Valley and at least 300 more in the capital, a police spokesman told Reuters news agency. 
A further 36 fatalities were reported in northern India, 12 in Tibet and four in Bangladesh.
Photos posted on Twitter showed buildings left in rubble, large cracks along roads and worried residents on the streets.

Images of devastation: Nepal's earthquake destruction

The earthquake destroyed many historical landmarks, including the UNESCO World Heritage temples at Basantapur Durbar Square and the Dharara tower, both in central Kathmandu.
It has been reported that around 250 people may have been in the Dharara tower when it collapsed. At least 50 people are believed to be trapped under an ancient tower in Kathmandu which collapsed in the quake.
Emergency workers and army and police personnel, with the help of residents and bystanders, continued to work tirelessly on Saturday to clear the rubble from these sites and to rescue any survivors from under the debris, although bodies were mostly being pulled out.
As night fell the country, thousands of people were staying outdoors and found refuge in Kathmandu’s open spaces, in fear that subsequent aftershocks may cause further damage.







  







The epicentre was 80km northwest of Kathmandu. The Kathmandu valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million people and poorly enforced building regulations.
The Associated Press news agency cited a senior guide as saying that an avalanche swept a mountain near the Everest base camp. Al Jazeera has learned that at least 10 people were killed in the incident, which also left many climbers trapped.
British mountaineer Kenton Cool told Al Jazeera that the quake couldn't have come at a worse time, as it was peak climbing season at the base camp and "there's probably 1,000 people or so there". Cool said conditions for rescuers would also be difficult in poor weather conditions.
"This terrible, terrible situation has occurred at exactly the wrong time in terms of human fatality," Cool said.
"Knowing the geology and the lay of the land there, to facilitate the medical care required and to try to medivac people out of there is going to be extremely difficult, especially considering the weather conditions there right now."
Al Jazeera's Subina Shrestha, reporting from Kathmandu, confirmed reports of extensive damage to buildings.
The worst-affected area was old Kathmandu, the site of several ancient temples, and where rescuers faced large piles of rubble, she said.
As night fell in the country, tens of thousands of people camped out, fearful of going back to their homes in case of another earthquake. Already, more than two dozen aftershocks had followed the quake.








The powerful quake also triggered an avalanche that swept across Everest Base Camp [AzimAfif/AP]





The US Geological Survey said the quake hit at 11:56am local time (06:11 GMT). It initially reported a magnitude of 7.7 before revising its calculation to 7.5, 7.9 and then later, 7.8.
The USGS initally reported the epicentre to be 11km deep but later revised it to 2km.
Tremors were felt in a number of India's northern cities, witnesses said. Al Jazeera's reporters in New Delhi said the tremors were also felt across the Indian capital.
Al Jazeera's Faiz Jamil said that the first tremor in New Delhi lasted for 20 seconds and a second one followed shortly after.

Utter devastation. Locals pitch in to clear rubble, search for survivors. #kathmanduearthquake pic.twitter.com/Td9KeGGfmX
— Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015


Indian officials told the Associated Press news agency that at least 34 people were killed in the Bihar state and Uttar Pradesh state.
Al Jazeera's Maher Sattar in Dhaka, Bangladesh, reported that at least three people were killed there, including one who was killed following stampede triggered by the quake.  
Laxman Singh Rathore, director-general of the Indian Meteorological Department, said that the impact had been felt across large swathes of northern India.
"The intensity was felt in entire north India. More intense shocks were felt in eastern UP (Uttar Pradesh) and Bihar, equally strong in sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim," he said.
(Additional reporting by Juliette Rousselot in Kathmandu)





  


Volunteers help with rescue work at the site of a building that collapsed after an earthquake in Kathmandu [AP Photo]




Source: Al Jazeera and agencies

 RelatedTimeline: Nepal earthquakes
Hundreds killed and many buildings destroyed in Nepal after 7.9 magnitude earthquake strikes Kathmandu valley.
Nepal, Natural disasters, AsiaNepal's earthquake destruction
More than 3,000 dead as magnitude 7.9 earthquake hits Himalayan nation of 27 million.
Natural disasters, Asia, Earthquake, Nepal 


            Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
            are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
            or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
            global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
            accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.
     




    Featured
Nepal: Mental distress rises amid the devastation
As physical wounds begin to heal, emotional scars left by the deadly earthquake will linger for years in Nepal.
Humanitarian crises, Earthquake, Asia

Demanding democratic reform ahead of the UK election
'Occupy Democracy' campaigners say the archaic voting system fails to reflect the people's true needs and desires. 
Elections, United Kingdom, Scotland

Surviving and escaping Boko Haram's terror
More than one million Nigerians have been forced to flee their homes since the rise of the hard-line fighters.
Boko Haram, Nigeria, Africa

UK election tumbles towards a coalition finish line
Bold challenge from small political parties looks set to deliver a thrilling climax.
Elections, United Kingdom, Europe
    

 Related
Timeline: Nepal earthquakes
Hundreds killed and many buildings destroyed in Nepal after 7.9 magnitude earthquake strikes Kathmandu valley.
Nepal, Natural disasters, Asia

Nepal's earthquake destruction
More than 3,000 dead as magnitude 7.9 earthquake hits Himalayan nation of 27 million.
Natural disasters, Asia, Earthquake, Nepal
     Latest News
Air raids target Houthis after attacks on Saudi town
Deaths reported as Yemeni rebels fire rockets and mortars into the border town of Najran.
War & Conflict, Middle East, Yemen

'38 million people' internally displaced worldwide
Refugee NGO states the figures are a record high for a third year in a row, with 15 percent increase in 2014 alone.
Humanitarian crises, Human Rights, War & Conflict, Syrian crisis, Middle East
    Most viewed

Tornado rips through northern German town
Nigerian troops 'rescue dozens' from Boko Haram
Britons head to polls for unpredictable elections
Analysis: Boots on the ground in Yemen? Think again
South Africans have never really wanted Nigerians
Air raids target Houthis after attacks on Saudi town
Nigeria borrows money to pay government salaries
Dear Iran
Deaths as Yemeni rebels fire rockets into Saudi Arabia
Cover Story




 Programme HighlightsHead to HeadNigeria's future: Failed state or African superpower? Former World Bank Vice President for Africa Obiageli Ezekwesili on Nigeria as regional and global power and Boko Haram.Politics, Africa, NigeriaPeople & PowerWith This Passport I Thee Wed ...We investigate the shady world of Britain's fake marriage brokers and how they beat the UK's tough immigration rules.United Kingdom, Europe, ImmigrationearthriseMyanmar's Smart FarmersHow low-cost solutions are keeping farmers in Myanmar one step ahead of climate change.Environment, Myanmar, Asia101 EastSabah's Invisible Children101 East enters the world of Sabah's stateless children, who spend their lives on the run from authorities.Child rights, Malaysia, Human Rights



 

 


News

Programmes

Opinion

About

Investigations

Video



Facebook

Twitter

Google+

RSS

Podcast

YouTube






					About


About Us

Press Office

Awards

Code of Ethics

Terms and Conditions

Community Guidelines




					Connect


Contact Us

Mobile

Social

Channel Finder

Broadcast Schedule

Podcasts

Newsletter

Digital Magazine






					Our Channels


AJ America

AJ +

AJ Arabic

AJ Balkans

AJ Turk

AJ Mubasher

AJ Documentary




					Our Network


AJ Center for Studies

AJ Forum

AJ Training Center

AJ Film Festival

AJ Learning

AJ Hotel Partners






					 





					© 2015 Al Jazeera Media Network





	 




























 




