Typhoon Haiyan – devastation and fear in the Philippines  - British Red Cross blog
Typhoon Haiyan – devastation and fear in the Philippines  - British Red Cross blog









BLOG




Blog home
First aid
Health
Emergencies
Resilience
Our main site ▼

What we do
Where we work
About us
Get involved
Donate
Shop















RSS


















Nov 13, 2013

Typhoon Haiyan – devastation and fear in the Philippines











“People are scared. They’re worried about the lack of food and water, they’ve got absolutely nothing.”
British Red Cross delegate Nichola Jones paints a desperate picture of the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan.
Some 11.3 million people have been affected in the Philippines and thousands are dead. The final death toll is yet to be established as the scale of destruction continues to unfold.
Please donate to our appeal.
Upwards of 670,000 people are without shelter and hospitals are without power. The immediate need is for food, water and sanitation equipment and medicines. 
Destroyed house in Daang Bantayan, Cebu Island – ©Jarkko Mikkonen/Finnish Red Cross
Destruction of Tacloban
Nichola, speaking from Cebu City, is working with the Philippine Red Cross. She visited the city of Tacloban, in Leyte province, which is one of the worst affected areas.
“Tacloban is completely destroyed, there’s nearly 100 per cent damage to buildings, there’s no food, water, power or fuel,” she said.
“Everyone is trying to get out of Tacloban and get somewhere else where there are supplies.
“We drove along the road between Ormoc and Tacloban, about 110km, and every village or town has been destroyed.
People fleeing Tacloban – ©Nichola Jones/British Red Cross
“The people who have survived are now worried about their children and elderly – there’s no power in any of the hospitals, there’s no medicine and there’s a big problem with stagnant water.
“People are wading through this water with open wounds and they’re at risk of infection. People are drinking that water because they’re desperate, it’s horrendous. There are cases of diarrhoea and dengue fever.”
Volunteer bravery  
Aid is beginning to arrive in the country, but with roads blocked and the mobile phone network damaged, there are still remote towns and villages that are unaccounted for.
“There are still towns we haven’t heard from,” said Nichola. “The Philippine Red Cross is sending out assessment teams and they’re not far away, but the roads are still blocked.”
On the road to Tacloban airport – ©Nichola Jones/British Red Cross
Many of the volunteers with the Philippine Red Cross are continuing to help, despite suffering personal loss.
“They’re coping very well in the circumstances,” said Nichola. “There are people volunteering whose family members are missing or whose homes have been destroyed.
“One of the doctors working with us doesn’t know where his family is. Everyone has been affected. They’re starting to do some volunteer recruitment, people just want to help, they’ve got nothing, but still they want to try to help.”
Philippine Red Cross volunteers prepare emergency supplies for distribution.
While the immediate focus is on meeting people’s basic needs, the Red Cross is aware of the challenges that wait beyond the crisis.
“The main priorities at the moment are food, water and medicine. But then shelter and livelihoods are going to be the next priority as everything has been destroyed.
“On the road yesterday we passed a sugar factory, it had been completely destroyed along with all the houses.
“We’re only just beginning to uncover the extent of the typhoon’s impact upon people’s lives and livelihoods. The full recovery could take years,”said Nichola.
Please donate to our appeal.
British Red Cross delegate Nichola Jones in the Philippines.









Sam Smith
Appeals, Emergencies, International, News
1
disaster, disaster response, emergency response, Philippines, Typhoon Haiyan Appeal 







 


									
																				Sam Smith																		
									Sam brings you the latest stories, interviews and updates about British Red Cross work from Africa and the Americas.																	 
 


« In pictures: Red Cross sends supplies to the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan » Red Cross aid distributed in the Philippines


One Comment



 Samantha Ocean
Nov 15, 2013 @ 18:02:00


The BBC News are full of reports on how difficult it is to get supplies to the people in need in the Philippines, especially in the remote areas. If the accounts of the BBC are correct, how come food and relief parcels can’t be dropped from the plains using para-shoots like it was done in the late 1940′s when Stalin blocked off Berlin and the Allies did even this to get food to the people of West Berlin?


Reply 



Leave a Reply Cancel

Your Name *
Your Email *
Your Website 
 




 
Current ye@r *




Leave this field empty


 








Popular Posts 


Categories Aid Work

Appeals

Emergencies

First aid

Fundraising and events

Health

International

News

Refugee services

Resilience

UK

Uncategorised

Volunteering

World War One

Young volunteers












Appeals Hurricane Sandy
West Africa Food Crisis Appeal
Syria Crisis Appeal
Libya & Region Appeal
Emergency response
Past emergency appeals




First aid Everyday First Aid
Children First Aid 
First aid training
Event first aid
First aid campaigns 
Mobile app




Get involved Volunteer 
Events
Fundraise for us
Donate to our charity shops
Opportunities for young people
Join our online community




About us Who we are
What we do
Find your nearest service
Contact us
Privacy policy
Jobs





↑





© British Red Cross blog 2015
Powered by WordPress  • Themify WordPress Themes

























