ABP Live - English News, Today’s Latest Breaking News in English, Online English News





ABP Live - English News, Today’s Latest Breaking News in English, Online English News




















































    If Nepal-like quake hits Delhi, casualties may be in lakhs: High Court
  

























                  English
                







                  English News
              



                  Hindi News
              



                  Bengali News
              



                  Marathi News
              



                  Punjabi News
              


















                        VIDEO
                      



                        PHOTO GALLERY
                      



                        LIVE TV
                      




























































































                          HOME
                        



                          INDIA
                        



                          IPL
                        



                          WORLD
                        



                          SPORTS
                        



                          LIFESTYLE
                        



                          MOVIES
                        



                          TV
                        



                          BUSINESS
                        



                          GADGET
                        



                          CRIME
                        



                          BLOG
                        



                          HEALTH
                        



                          TRAVEL
                        














                    English
                  







                      English
                  



                      Hindi
                  



                      Bengali
                  



                      Marathi
                  



                      Punjabi
                  














                          HOME
                        



                          VIDEO
                        



                          PHOTO GALLERY
                        



                          LIVE TV
                        



                          INDIA
                        



                          WORLD
                        



                          SPORTS
                        



                          LIFESTYLE
                        



                          MOVIES
                        



                          TV
                        



                          BUSINESS
                        



                          GADGET
                        



                          CRIME
                        



                          Delhi Election
                        



                          HEALTH
                        



                          India Ki Team
                        



                          IPL
                        



                          Travel
                        










































          You are here:
        
ABP Live 
            >
          
        
      
        
          
            
              
                India 




















If Nepal-like quake hits Delhi, casualties may be in lakhs: High Court

PTI


            Wednesday, 06 May 2015 07:33 PM
          






Comments













































New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday rapped the city's municipal corporations for "dereliction of duty" and allowing buildings to come up without complying with regulations saying it may result in death of lakhs of people if an earthquake, like that in Nepal, occurs here. 






Delhi High Court




    
    
    
  
 	 A bench of justices Badar Durrez Ahmed and Sanjeev Sachdeva made the observation after it was told by a civic body that about 80 per cent of the buildings in Delhi have come up without complying with regulations, including those of structural stability. 	The court also observed that since 80 per cent of the structures have come up without following the regulations, if a earthquake like the one in Nepal occurs here, the casualties would not be in thousands but in lakhs. 	It issued notice to the Delhi government and municipal corporations seeking their responses by May 20 on a PIL questioning how safe were the structures in the national capital if an earthquake of a huge magnitude happens here. 	The court also directed the civic authorities to file status reports, in 10 days, indicating whether policy with regard to structural stability of buildings in Delhi were being implemented keeping in mind that national capital falls in seismic zone (SZ) IV.  	SZ IV is called a high damage risk zone which can expect the second highest level of earthquakes. 	The civic bodies have also been directed to indicate in their reports whether buildings in the city are complying with the structural stability norms prescribed in the National Building Code (NBC) for SZ IV. The court, during the hearing, also observed that in areas like Karol Bagh in the national capital, majority of the buildings have been constructed in violation of norms. 	It said that while the regulations only provide for three-storey buildings, those in Karol Bagh are usually six-storeys tall. 	The petition, by a lawyer, has also asked what kind of action plan does the corporation have to tackle the issue.






























Tags :

abp live


Delhi


nepal quake


delhi high court































































































Related Stories









Hit and Run case: Know why it took so long for the court to give its verdict









Delhi HC grants relief to AAP MLA Jarnail Singh









Debate: Did Salman take long to mend his ways?









Lok Sabha passes GST bill









China visit will lay foundation for enhancing economic cooperation: PM Modi









Sub-inspector sends resignation via Whatsapp in Kanpur









GST, land boundary Bills: BJP issues whip to MPs









Security Council reform with permanent seat for India is 'urgent', says France









Salman Khan sentenced to five years rigorous imprisonment in 2002 hit-and-run case









Lok Sabha passes GST Constitutional Amendment Bill









Viral video of a stray dog roaming on the streets of Mumbai shows how horrible its life is









Salman Khan gets 5 years in jail, Twitter split on verdict









Hit-and-run verdict: Family shattered, mother Salma unwell 









Sonia Gandhi says PM Narendra Modi running one-man government




































































LIVE TV










Top Videos









Hit and Run Case: Two days' interim bail is a huge...
 









Hit and Run case: Know why it took so long for the...
 









Debate: Did Salman take long to mend his ways?
 









Salman Khan Hit and Run case: Here is what all hap...
 





















Hit and Run case: What will happen next for Salman...
 









Will Salman Khan get bail in the Hit and Run case ...
 









Salman Khan hit-and-run case: Singer Abhijeet says...
 









ABP News talks to DCP Satya Narayan of area where ...
 









Salman Khan’s driver Ashok Singh arrested inside c...
 









It's bad news for film industry:Raj Babbar on Salm...
 

























Live Score
  
  








                            
                        
                    
                
            



            













        
    

            
            
          
        
        
        
      
      
      
    
      
      
      
      

      
      
        
        

        

        

        
        
        

        
          
          
            
              
              
              




















    
    
        
        
            
            

            

            












    
                
                
                    
                    
                        
                        

                        
                            
                            
                                
































    










  
    
     






Photo Galleries










              Must watch erotic Bollywood movies! 
            
 












              Salman Khan's mother unwell after hearing the verdict
            
 












              Verdict: What were the allegations against Salman Khan 
            
 












              Bollywood actress Asin's car seized by the police
            
 












              Five of Salman Khan's most popular movies
            
 












              Salman Khan verdict: Bollywood rushed to Salman Khan's home 
            
 












              When Yuvraj took Sachin's blessings!
            
 












              Inside pictures of Karan Patel’s big fat Gujarati wedding 
            
 












              B-town hotties who failed to impress audience in Bikini
            
 












              Kriti Sanon sizzles on the cover page of Filmfare
            
 









Top News Stories









Salman Khan hit-and-run case: What happened inside...
 









GST, land boundary Bills: BJP issues whip to MPs
 









Nitin Gadkari urinates on plants at his Delhi bung...
 









Four arrested for Munnabhai-style cheating in medi...
 









I haven’t received DCW’s notice: Kumar Vishwas 
 












Opinion
 



Who will score maximum runs in IPL 8?







Newsletter








































































ABP Live : English News
ABP News : Hindi News
ABP Ananda : Bengali News
ABP Majha : Marathi News
ABP Sanjha : Punjabi News
Filmy Monkey : Bollywood News




ABP LIVE News on iOS
ABP LIVE News on Android

ABP LIVE News on Windows







About us


Feedback


Careers


Advertise with us


Site Map


Disclaimer


Contact Us


Privacy Policy


Editors





 &copy Copyright 2008-12, ABP News: Breaking news from India, world, cricket, politics, business and entertainment. All rights reserved.



































