Perseverance and Grace as Nepal Is Turned Upside Down - NYTimes.com 



Perseverance and Grace as Nepal Is Turned Upside Down - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|Perseverance and Grace as Nepal Is Turned Upside Down
 
Advertisement
 



 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1HHHZy4




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








 






Advertisement





Asia Pacific |                        Reporter's Notebook                                            |​​NYT Now

Perseverance and Grace as Nepal Is Turned Upside Down

By DONATELLA LORCHAPRIL 26, 2015
 
Inside








Photo






Clearing debris from a building collapse in Bhaktapur. Nepalis helped one another, transporting supplies and offering food, after an earthquake and its aftershocks.

Credit
            Omar Havana/Getty Images        



Continue reading the main story

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
KATMANDU, Nepal —  There has not been a day in the two years I have lived in Nepal that I haven’t thought about earthquakes. They were, in many ways, my obsession.Katmandu sits on a major geological fault, and the Big One has been long overdue. My husband always tried to get me to laugh it off. “Earthquakes aren’t like pregnancies,” he said. “They don’t have due dates.” Besides, we had lived through three small quakes. No big deal.But I prepared. We packed “go bags” and put them downstairs, upstairs and outside in the garden. A tent, rain gear, blankets and so on. My Nepali friends sometimes made fun of me. My friend Sasha reminded me that some things were beyond our control. If it was my karma, she would say, it was my karma. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










In an Already Troubled Nepal, a Picture of Despair EmergesAPRIL 26, 2015












Earthquake Aftershocks Jolt Nepal as Death Toll Rises Above 3,400APRIL 26, 2015












Nepal Earthquake Poses Challenge to International Aid AgenciesAPRIL 26, 2015












Live: Latest Updates on Earthquake in Nepal 






On Saturday, about 11:45 a.m., my 10-year-old son, Lucas, and I were driving down a steep hill on our way to a pizza lunch at the Roadhouse Cafe in Patan, a city known for its rich cultural heritage, just across the Bagmati River from Katmandu. At first I thought that we had blown a tire, or maybe a motorcycle had hit us from behind. Then I lost control of the car as it was tossed right and left as if by rolling waves.
Continue reading the main story


            Nepal Earthquake: Where to Donate        








A list of some of the groups soliciting donations for relief efforts in Nepal.
Go to List »



 



I lost track of time. Women ran across the road screaming. A nearby wall collapsed. A motorcyclist fell from his bike. I stopped in the middle of the road, turned off the engine and unlocked the doors. I told my son to lean over and cover his head as best he could. “It’s an earthquake,” I told him, and noticed my hands were shaking.The rest of the day was fueled by adrenaline. I managed to drive home, navigating around broken bricks scattered on the roads and houses that had collapsed. My husband was away on a business trip, but our dog, a Rhodesian Ridgeback, was waiting anxiously at our gate. The house was intact. To be safe, though, I began moving emergency gear outside, as far away from it as possible. As I ran upstairs to fetch our passports, an aftershock almost threw me to the ground. It felt like a huge tree cracking overhead.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
In the evening, Lucas and I walked down our street and into a village, the oldest community of ethnic Newars in the Katmandu Valley, a place where goats often live on the ground floor of homes and women wash their pots and their hair on the stoops. Making our way along the town’s narrow, medieval paths, we passed building after building that had collapsed. Residents, police officers and Nepal Scouts were digging through the debris with their hands, trying to rescue those who had been buried. Others were setting up temporary shelters in any open space. Blankets and cushions were laid out in the middle of roads.Neighbors were helping neighbors. Those with motorcycles were ferrying cheap plastic canvas for tents from the shops that remained open. Many people stopped us and asked if we needed food or water. Several invited us to spend the night with them. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs            

                Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the Earthquake            

                The earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 flattened sections of Katmandu’s historic center, where many structures were made with bricks.            








                    OPEN Photographs                




This is why I love Nepal. People here help one another because they know the government often cannot. They reach out to one another, and they persevere. They open their shops, because what else can one do when the world is upside down?Continue reading the main story

Continue reading the main story
On Sunday morning, I drove through the city on a motorcycle with a Nepali friend, my son sandwiched between us. The government had declared a national emergency, so the roads were largely empty, just a few motorcycles and some packed buses. The city was a vast camp, with tents in every open space.We visited the Pashupatinath Temple, one of the holiest shrines of the Hindu faith, first erected on the banks of the Bagmati River more than 1,000 years ago. It had not suffered too much damage, but in the back, spilling out of the cremation area onto a main path, was a row of corpses covered in saffron sheets. Extra cremation pyres had been set up, but they were not enough.Casualties were especially high in the ancient city centers of Katmandu, Patan and Bhaktapur, with their narrow mazes and tall, thin buildings built cheek to jowl. Many died in traditional mud-brick homes that they had built themselves.
Continue reading the main story
Video





Play Video|1:01
Rescue Efforts Continue in Nepal Quake




Rescue Efforts Continue in Nepal Quake

The Indian government and rescue workers discussed the search and relief efforts in Nepal on Sunday, following the magnitude 7.8 earthquake that struck the country a day earlier.

Publish Date April 26, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by Prakash Singh/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images.
                            



Even animals appear traumatized. Our dog will not leave my side and tries to force his way into our tiny tent. The city’s huge flocks of crows — in happier times, residents jested that this place should be named Crowmandu — have been on edge, freaking out with each aftershock.I first came to Katmandu in 1983 as a backpacker and returned while working on a master’s degree in Indic studies. My husband’s job brought me back once more. A population boom had transformed the Katmandu Valley, its three cities now home to 2.5 million residents. We found a place with horrific air pollution, traffic that never seemed to move and garbage everywhere. Yet my son and I have been happy here. The quirky, cynical, self-deprecating humor of Nepalis charmed me from the first day.This is a city with a living history and a living religion. Where else could one see a Hindu shrine or a Buddhist chaitya on almost every street? Where else can one live surrounded by so many ancient temples and stupas that are listed as Unesco heritage sites — and eat at restaurants serving cuisine from everywhere in the world?Within 40 seconds on Saturday, everything changed. The Durbar Squares in Katmandu and Patan where tourists thronged — ancient plazas graced with temples and fountains opposite the old royal palaces — had been reduced to rubble, with only a few structures left standing. One of my favorite shrines, famous for its white domes and four giant, fearsome brass dragons with talons raised, is now a pile of cracked red bricks and dust.Those who survived know they are lucky. Lucky that this did not happen during the frigid winter or monsoon season. Lucky that the quake hit in daylight rather than at night, when more people would have been indoors and casualties would have been worse. Lucky that it was a Saturday, when children were not in schools, most of which were shoddily built.Saturday night, my son and I lay in our tent pretending to be on a camping adventure as a series of rumbling aftershocks shook the ground. With each one, we listened as screams of fear echoed in the darkness. I lit a lamp and trimmed my son’s fingernails. I could not think of anything else to do, and I could not sleep.My heart aches for Nepal and what has been lost. But I am buoyed by the generous spirit of its people. My son and I know that life here will get worse in the days and weeks ahead as fuel and water run low. But we also know we are in this together.


 Correction: April 26, 2015  
An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the day the photograph was taken. It was Saturday, not Sunday. 



Donatella Lorch, a former New York Times foreign correspondent, is a freelance writer based in Katmandu.
A version of this article appears in print on April 27, 2015, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Perseverance and Grace When the World Is Turned Upside Down.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












