At least 10 dead at Umpqua Community College campus shooting | FOX2now.com  


At least 10 dead at Umpqua Community College campus shooting | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































53°






Low 
48°


High 
69°












Sat





					49° 
 67°
					






Sun





					48° 
 66°
					






Mon





					55° 
 75°
					
















 








 






















 








10 dead, 7 injured in shooting at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College campus




Posted 1:22 pm, October 1, 2015, by 
 




 














 










Please enable Javascript to watch this video








Ten people were killed when a gunman opened fire at Oregon's Umpqua Community College on Thursday, forcing the nation to face yet another mass shooting.


Seven other people were injured, and the shooter is dead, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin told reporters. Earlier estimates had put the number of people hurt much higher.


The shooter was a 20-year-old man, according to Oregon Gov. Kate Brown, who ordered flags be flown at half-staff until sunset on Friday.


Cassandra Welding is a student at the Roseburg campus and was in class when the shooting started.


"I heard a popping noise, almost like a balloon popping," she told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. "I knew something wasn't right and so I get down."


She said all of the students in her classroom dropped to the ground. They huddled together behind backpacks and chairs, underneath tables.


"We locked the doors, turned off the lights, and we were all pretty much in panic mode," Welding said.


"We called 911 and called our parents, our loved ones ... We didn't know what was going to happen, if those were our last words or not."


The shooting


The shooting appears to have started in one building before the gunman moved to the school's science building, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN. Those killed and wounded were found in at least two classrooms.


"We arrived to find multiple patients in multiple classrooms. Law enforcement was on scene and had the shooter neutralized," said Douglas County Fire Marshal Ray Shoufler.


He told CNN that two patients died while being transported to a hospital.


Mercy Medical Center posted on Facebook that it had received 10 patients. The extent of their injuries was not known.


Three female victims were at PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend in Springfield, according to a hospital spokeswoman.


It wasn't immediately clear why the hospitals' numbers conflicted with the figure provided by Sheriff Hanlin.


A law enforcement official told CNN three pistols and one rifle believed to have belonged to the suspect were recovered at the scene.


ATF agents were also on scene and canine teams were en route to search for explosives, fire arms casings and ammunition, a spokesman said. FBI agents were en route.


The investigation


According to the source with knowledge of the investigation, authorities are looking at social media posts between a person they believe may have been the shooter, and others.


The conversation happened Wednesday night on 4chan, an image-based bulletin board.


In it, the writer talks about planning to carry out a shooting. Others egg him on, giving him suggestions on how to do it, and the type of weapons to use.


The responses are mixed -- with some users characterizing the would-be gunman as a pathetic loser. Others called him a twisted hero.


In the posts, there is a reference to the UC Santa Barbara shooter, who wrote a manifesto and videoed himself before opening fire a year ago.


"This is the only time I'll ever be in the news. I'm so insignificant," read an apparent post by the would-be Oregon gunman.


The community


Roseburg is a city of about 22,000 people about 70 miles south of Eugene, Oregon, and some 180 miles south of Portland.


The school itself is up on a hill outside the city center, according to Rick Francona, a CNN military analyst who lives nearby. Francona said that logging is a big industry in the region, which is fairly rural but easily accessible from Interstate 5.


"This is so out of character for this whole area," he said.


News of the shooting quickly reached Washington, with the state's senior senator, Ron Wyden, visibly shaken and Sen. Jeff Merkley tweeting that he was praying for the victims and their families.


U.S. President Barack Obama was briefed on the situation and will continue to receive updates throughout the day.


He pushed for a change in gun laws when he spoke to reporters about the shooting Thursday.


"Somehow this has become routine. The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine, the conversation in the aftermath of it. We've become numb to this," he said.


The President continued: "
. It's not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel, and it does nothing to prevent this carnage from being inflicted someplace else in America -- next week, or a couple months from now."


The school


A picturesque campus in the North Umpqua River Valley, Umpqua Community College prides itself on a "a peaceful, safe atmosphere, and year-round recreational activities," according to its website.


It's not a traditional institution of higher learning, as the average age of its 13,600 students was 38 during the 2013-2014 school year. Only 740 of those were full time, 2,437 were part time and more than 10,000 fell under the umbrella of "community education."


It first began teaching classes out of rented facilities in 1961. Elton and Ruth Jackson donated 98.5 acres to house the campus in 1965.


The school will be closed until Monday as a result of the shooting.


The interim leader of Umpqua Community College called Thursday "the saddest day in the history of the college."


By Dana Ford, CNN


CNN's Eliott McLaughlin, Deborah Feyerick, Steve Almasy, Evan Perez, Eugene Scott, Sheena Jones and Jason Hanna contributed to this report.




43.291178


-123.334899










Kevin S. Held












"It cannot be this easy for somebody who wants to inflict harm on other people to get his or her hands on a gun."-PBO 


— Fox News (@FoxNews) 














Kevin S. Held












.
: "Our thoughts and prayers are not enough. It's not enough." 


— Fox News (@FoxNews) 














Kevin S. Held












.
: "I want to thank all the first responders whose bravery likely saved some lives today." 


— Fox News (@FoxNews) 














Kevin S. Held












Sheriff John Hanlin: "The shooter was a male subject… The shooter is deceased." 


— Fox News (@FoxNews) 






















Images courtesy of Cree Riggs




























The shooter may have alerted friends on 4chan website last night
































































Oregon State Police Lt. Bill Fugate tells KATU-TV at least 7 dead, 20 hurt in college shooting


— Shepard Smith (@ShepNewsTeam) 






















First responders found “multiple patients in multiple classrooms” after Thursday morning’s shooting at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College, Douglas County Fire Marshal Ray Shoufler told CNN. He said multiple people had died, but he didn’t have an exact number.
























ATF sending agents and K9 team to Umpqua Community College in Oregon after shooting reported 
 


— ABC News (@ABC) 


























Mass shootings since Sandy Hook, in one map 
 


— Vox (@voxdotcom) 


























LATEST: Multiple casualties after shooting reported at college in Oregon: 
 


— ABC News (@ABC) 


























UPDATE: "No longer a threat" at Umpqua Community College, according to a Douglas County Sheriff's Dept. spokesperson, citing dispatchers


— Fox News (@FoxNews) 


























UPDATE: Local media, citing Oregon State Police, reporting at least 12 killed in 
 Community College shooting 


— Fox News (@FoxNews) 


























BREAKING: Oregon community college shooting suspect 'is down': Oregonian newspaper


— Reuters Top News (@Reuters) 


























Breaking News: Shooter at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon has been contained. 


— FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) 






















Listen to police scanner information about the shooting here: 
























According to Oregon state officials 10 people are reported dead at the Umpqua Community College. Shooter is possibly dead or in custody.


— Mercedes Lucila (@MercedesLucila) 


























Prayers to all the family at umpqua  community college so sad and so close to home 
:(


— Sheena (@S_W2444) 


























Early reports say at least 15 are dead in Umpqua community college shooting this morning: 


— Morgan Baskin (@mhbaskin) 


























Oregon State Police confirm 15 dead in 
. 


— KATU News (@KATUNews) 




































Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
, 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Events Calendar
See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps






































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts




















































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































