10 dead in Umpqua Community College shooting in Oregon; shooter identified | fox8.com  


10 dead in Umpqua Community College shooting in Oregon; shooter identified | fox8.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu
































Cleveland












54°






Low 
49°


High 
59°








Akron/Canton












49°






Low 
45°


High 
61°


















 








 




























 








10 dead in Umpqua Community College shooting in Oregon; shooter identified




Posted 2:20 pm, October 1, 2015, by 
 and 
, 
Updated at 10:43pm, October 1, 2015
 




 
















ROSEBURG, Oregon– The man who opened fire at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College on Thursday is dead, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin told reporters.  Investigators have identified the shooter as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer, multiple law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation told CNN. Investigators have been interviewing members of his family and friends, the sources said.


Mercer had body armor with him, was heavily armed and had enough ammunition for a prolonged gunfight, a law enforcement official tells CNN. Authorities believe a relatively quick response by law enforcement kept the death toll from being higher, the source says.


A sheriff says 10 people were killed in the shooting.


Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin says 10 dead and another seven injured is the “best, most accurate information we have at this time.”


Earlier, Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum said 13 people were killed in the rampage at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg.


It’s unclear what led to the discrepancy. Hanlin has said the gunman died after a shootout with police. He didn’t clarify whether the shooter was included in the 10 fatalities.


Hanlin says three people who were critically injured in the shooting have been transferred to hospitals in the Eugene area.


No police officers were injured.


Officers and the gunman exchanged fire. Earlier in the day, Oregon Gov. Kate Brown said the shooter was 20 years old.




, offering his thoughts and prayer, but saying those are just not enough.  “We are going to have to change our laws. This is not something I can do by myself.”




“It’s been a terrible day,” said Hanlin. “At this point, it’s a very active scene. It’s a very active investigation.”


The four guns found at the scene were three pistols and one rifle, a law enforcement official said. All four were believed to belong to the shooter. Legally, a person must be 21 or older to buy a pistol from a gun dealer. Oregon’s governor has said the gunman — who could have gotten the weapons as gifts, from a gun show or bought them illegally — was 20.


Investigators are also looking at social media postings they believe the shooter made, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN.


The night before the attack, the shooter appears to have had a conversation with others online about his intentions, that source said.


 










Please enable Javascript to watch this video








"We arrived to find multiple patients in multiple classrooms. Law enforcement was on scene and had the shooter neutralized," Douglas County Fire Marshal Ray Shoufler told CNN.


 


Two Oregon hospitals -- Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg and PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend in Springfield -- are treating 13 patients.


Ten of those are at Mercy Medical, according to that hospital's Facebook page. The three being treated at PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center are females between the ages of 18 and 34, hospital spokeswoman Anne Williams said.


ATF agents were also on scene and canine teams are en route to search for explosives, fire arms casings and ammunition, a spokesman said. The FBI was en route.












'This is so out of character'


Earlier, authorities had said they were responding to reports of an active shooter at the Roseburg college campus.


Roseburg is a city of about 22,000 people located about 70 miles south of Eugene, Oregon, and some 180 miles south of Portland.


The school itself is up on a hill outside the city center, according to Rick Francona, a CNN military analyst who lives nearby. Francona said that logging is a big industry in the region, which is fairly rural but easily accessible from Interstate 5.


"This is so out of character for this whole area," he said.


News of the shooting quickly reached Washington, with the state's senior senator, Ron Wyden, visibly shaken and Sen. Jeff Merkley tweeting that he was praying for the victims and their families.


President Obama was briefed on the situation and will continue to receive updates throughout the day.


The school


A picturesque campus in the North Umpqua River Valley, the school prides itself on a "a peaceful, safe atmosphere, and year-round recreational activities," according to its website.


It's not a traditional institution of higher learning, as the average age of its 13,600 students was 38 during the 2013-2014 school year. Only 740 of those were full time, 2,437 were part time and more than 10,000 fell under the umbrella of "community education."


It first began teaching classes out of rented facilities in 1961. Elton and Ruth Jackson donated 98.5 acres to house the campus in 1965.


 










Please enable Javascript to watch this video








Stay with FOX 8 News and fox8.com for continuing coverage of this developing story






43.291178


-123.334899


















Sheriff says deputies exchanged gunfire with the shooter. “It’s a very active scene. A very active investigation.”




















Sheriff says he’s heard varying numbers of the casualties, but he would not confirm 13 have died, which has been attributed to the state attorney general.




















Shooter was a male and is deceased, according to the sheriff.




















“I’m sure it’s very frightening for a lot of people who were responding,” the sheriff tells reporters. “A lot of friends and families attend this college.”




















Sheriff says it’s his understand the shooter fired at officers. He says they’ve activated the major crimes team for a thorough and lengthy investigation.




















“Douglas County is a timber community,” the sheriff says. Umpqua is the only higher learning facility in the county.




















“It is a peaceful community. We have our fair share of crime,” the sheriff tells reporters. He applauds the acts of his deputies and Oregon State Police.




















The sheriffs asks people to be aware of the victims’ families “and their anguish.”




















There were two or three officers who arrived first. The sheriff’s say they haven’t had any indication of explosives on campus.




















Oregon governor says the shooter was a 20-year-old male.












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: There are more American families whose lives have been changed forever. Another community stunned with grief. 












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: Federal law enforcement will help as long as needed.












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: “As I said a few months ago and before that, our thoughts and prayers are not enough. It’s not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel.”












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: “It’s fair to say that anybody who does this has a sickness in their minds.”












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: It can not be this easy for someone who wants to do this to get his or her hands on a gun.












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: “How can you make the argument that more guns will make us safer?”












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: “This is something we should politicize.”












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: “This is a political choice that we make: to allow this to happen every few months in America.”












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: I’d ask the American people to think how we can get the American government to change these laws to save lives, to let young people grow up- that will require a change of politics on this issue.












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: I would ask America’s gun owners who are using those guns properly, safely– to hunt; sport; for protecting their families– to think about whether your views are properly being represented.












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: “We are going to have to change our laws. This is not something I can do by myself.”












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: “I hope and pray that I don’t have to come out again as my tenure as President to offer my condolences to families in these circumstances.”












Kara Sutyak








President Obama: “May God bless the memories of those killed today.”




















Related stories



















		Umpqua Community College	








Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
, 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Clickable Weather
Click here to get up to date weather.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps










































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		5800 South Marginal Road, Cleveland, OH 44103 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WJW		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts




















































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































