Umpqua Shooting Is One of Worst School Shootings in U.S. History | Heavy.com 

Umpqua Shooting Is One of Worst School Shootings in U.S. History | Heavy.com














































































































































































 




















































Umpqua Shooting Is One of Worst School Shootings in U.S. History






Published
 
4:18 pm EDT, October 1, 2015






Updated
 10:41 pm EDT, October 1, 2015			




 



							By 






6k		






























Ten people died in the terrifying mass shooting at 
 in Roseburg, Oregon, making it one of the worst school and university shootings in the United States’ history.


These are the worst shootings in U.S. history:




Michigan Bath School Disaster – 1927


In 1927, Andrew Philip Kehoe, a farmer, went on a rampage in Michigan, killing 44 and injuring 58 people. He detonated a series of explosives around Bath Township, Michigan, including near an elementary school with children ages 7 through 12. He detonated dynamite during a struggle with the superintendent, killing himself in the process.




Virginia Tech Shooting – 2007


The Virginia Tech shooting that killed 32 people and wounded 17 others still remains one of the worst in U.S. history. The terrible crime took place on April 16, 2007 at Virginia Tech university.




Sandy Hook Elementary – 2012


The elementary school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, killed 20 children and six staff on December 14, 2012. The video and photos of children being evacuated from the school still haunt people today and leave many wondering why anyone would have done such a crime.




University of Texas Shooting – 1966


On August 1, 1966, Charles Whitman first murdered his wife and mother, and then killed 14 people and injured 32 others at the University of Texas at Austin. The shooter was hard to take out because he did the shootings from the university’s clock tower.




Columbine Massacre – 1999


The Columbine high school massacre occurred on April 20, 1999, killing 12 students, 1 teacher, and injuring 21 in Columbine, Colorado. The massacre sparked a debate on gun control and violence in video games. The shooters had also planted bombs and other explosive devices around the school.




Umpqua Community College – 2015


The horrific 
 has left 10 people dead, including the gunman, 26-year-old 
, and at least seven injured.




Red Lake Senior High School – 2005


On March 21, 2005, a shooter targeted Red Lake Senior High School in Red Lake, Minnesota on an Indian reservation. Seven people were killed, after the shooter killed his grandfather and his grandfather’s companion. Five people were injured.




Okios University – 2012


On April 2, 2012, a Korean Christian college, Oikos University, in Oakland, California, was the site of a terrible mass shooting that left seven dead. A former student who was angry at being expelled was the shooter.




Isla Vista, California Shooting – 2014


On May 23, 2014, six people were killed and 14 were injured in Isla Vista, California, near the University of California, Santa Barbara. The shooter committed suicide. The killings included three stabbings at the shooter’s apartment, three shootings outside a sorority house, and random shootings at pedestrians near the university. The shooter had written a 107,000-word manifesto before the shooting.


Ten people were killed and seven others wounded in a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, authorities say.


The Umpqua Community College shooting may have started in professor Larry Levine's classroom. Find out more about the professor here. 




Stephanie Dube Dwilson


is a news, entertainment & science/tech writer at Heavy. She's also a featured cat blogger for CatTime, runs a 
, and is a guest writer for a number of publications. In her spare time, Stephanie writes screenplays and novels about sci-fi mysteries. You can follow her on Twitter at 
 or contact her by email 
.




October 1, 2015 10:41 pm
 
































Related Items
 






Related posts from this category


















Leave a comment








Leave a Reply 










Enter your comment here...










Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:








































 






Email 
(Address never made public)








Name








Website






























 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Twitter account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Facebook account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Google+ account. 
( 
 / 
 )












Connecting to %s










 
Notify me of new comments via email.
 
Notify me of new posts via email.


 








 







			2 comments		












 
SoTxJoe
 
says:
 












Thank God for gun-free zones where psychopaths can shoot at will without fear of anyone shooting back. And thank God the police were able to arrest the gunman before he was able to shoot anyone.




 












 
Whatever
 
says:
 












Dude, wake up from fantasy land. Assuming everyone is armed, the shooter still has the advantage. 


Oh, and don’t forget to thank God for the boys existence in the first place. Do thank the Police for his end.




 
































	Copyright © 2015 Heavy, Inc. All rights reserved. Powered by 








Related posts from this category







































































