10 dead after shooting at Oregon community college - NY Daily News  
 
10 dead after shooting at Oregon community college - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Madman kills nine, injures seven after shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon
 
 BY  
,   
,   
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Updated: Friday, October 2, 2015, 11:00 AM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/AP
 
Authorities respond to a mass shooting Thursday at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.
 
 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/AP
 
Students, staff and faculty are evacuated from the college Thursday.
 
 
 
 
Ryan Kang/AP
 
People console each other after the shooting.
 
 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/AP
 
Students, staff and faculty are evacuated from the campus in Roseburg, Ore.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

	A lone gunman killed nine people and wounded seven more Thursday in a blood-soaked Oregon college campus rampage as America’s recurring national nightmare returned.



	The carnage erupted at 10:38 a.m. on the rural grounds of Umpqua Community College near Roseburg, with the shooting spree ending when the killer opened fire on arriving police — who shot the 26-year-old dead in his tracks.



	The killer, 
, asked his victims to state their religion as he carried out the carnage in two buildings, with the victims found in two classrooms.



	A 
, suggesting the blood of our citizens has been repeatedly spilled because of partisan politics.







	“Somehow this has become routine,” declared a somber Obama. “The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine. We’ve become numb to this ... It cannot be this easy for somebody who wants to inflict harm on other people to get a gun.”



	Eyewitnesses recounted a terrifying scene where the killer, heavily armed with four weapons, ordered everyone on the floor of a classroom inside the school’s Snyder Hall.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Myspace
 
Chris Harper Mercer is believed to be the man who responsible for the Umpqua Community College attack.
 
 
 
 
http://spiritualpassions.com
 
The 26-year-old was gunned down when he confronted armed authorities.
 
 
 
 
Myspace
 
Mercer may have revealed his plan Wednesday night, on the anonymous website 4chan.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



	One of the guns was an assault rifle similar to the weapon used in previous mass shootings, CNN reported. The killer had more weapons stashed in his home, officials said Friday.



	Mercer asked students to stand and state their religion before he began firing from point-blank range.



	Anastasia Boylan, 18, recounted the horror to her father.



	“And they would stand up and he said, ‘Good, because you’re a Christian, you’re going to see God in just about one second,’” Boylan’s father, Stacy, 
. “And then he shot and killed them.”







	Boylan, who was shot in the back, was undergoing spinal surgery late Thursday and was expected to survive.
 
 
 
 
 
 



	Authorities did not comment on his motive for the mass murder, but 911 tapes indicated that he squeezed off plenty of shots.



	“Upward of 20 victims,” 
. “Please dispatch as many ambulances as possible.”



	Several message boards noted the shooter may have revealed his plans Wednesday night, in posts on the website 4chan.



	“Some of you guys are alright. Don’t go to school tomorrow if you are in the northwest,” one post reads.



	“happening thread will be posted tomorrow morning...so long space robots...Will post again in the am. 10 min countdown. Won’t say more to much to prepare (sic)”




 
 
 



	Another message is addressed to “fellow robots” and wishes readers “an enjoyable Elliot Rodger day,” referencing 
.



	“Personally I will mark this day’s celebration of our Hero’s deeds by announcing that I have an elaborate plan...Needless to say; it shall be glorious. The horrible kind of normies will pay for their misdeeds, and the world will be bettered.”



	Law enforcement officials are investigating the posts.



	In an online dating profile, Mercer marketed himself as a poor, “introverted” college student who lived with his parents.



	The killer described himself as non-religious and a “conservative, republican” looking for “miss right now.”



	Late Thursday, cops joined FBI and ATF agents to swarm an apartment a few miles from the campus that Mercer shared with his mother.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Michael Lloyd/Getty Images
 
Denizens of Roseburg gather at a candlelight vigil for the victims of Thursday's shooting.
 
 
 
 
STEVE DIPAOLA/REUTERS
 
People mourn at the vigil following a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




ARMY VET SHOT 5 TIMES TRYING TO STOP OREGON SHOOTER



	Mercer's father has also been speaking with police and FBI investigators about the shooting, he told reporters outside his Los Angeles-area home late Thursday. Ian Mercer refused to answer questions but said his family is as shocked as anyone on what had been a "devastating day," 
. 



	Earlier, blood and scattered books were visible in the aftermath on the floor of Snyder Hall, where officials left small markers on locations where the multiple shell casings were recovered.



	The death toll was likely limited when a teacher and her students, huddled inside a classroom near the shootings, ignored a knock at their locked door.



	“Come on out,” a man’s voice called out. “Come on out.”



	Freshman Hannah Miles said the group instead stayed dead silent and ignored his invitation. The shooter carried enough firepower to inflict far more fatalities.
 
 
 
 
 
 







	None of those slain will be identified for at least 24 hours, according to local officials. The death toll could rise, as three of the shooting victims were in critical condition.



	“It’s been a terrible day,” said Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin. “This is a peaceful community. Certainly this is a huge shock ...These sort of tragedies are not supposed to happen here.”



	The latest mass gun murders marked the 34th fatal school shooting since the Sandy Hook Elementary massacre of 20 first-graders and a half-dozen staffers in December 2012, 
.



	And the number of Americans killed by guns since Sandy Hook now stands at 87,423, 
.



	“I’m horrified. It’s sickening what happened,” said Laura Jones, 27, who lives directly across from the shooter’s apartment with her 5-year old daughter. “When something happens like this in your community, it’s terrifying. You don’t feel safe. And he was my next-door neighbor.”
 
 
 
 
STEVE DIPAOLA/REUTERS
 
Authorities arrive at the Mercer's home after he was identified as the Umpqua Community College shooter.
 
 
 



	Jones said she never saw Mercer with any firearms.



	But everyone at Umpqua recognized the sound, and they instantly ran for their lives toward the front door.



	“We heard a bunch of gunshots, and all bolted and scattered,” pre-nursing student Brady Winder wrote on Facebook. “From talking with a student in the classroom where it happen(ed), almost every person in the classroom was shot by a man with 4 guns.



	“I’m still shaken up and am having a hard time processing what I heard and what happened.”



	One desperate student swam across a creek near the campus in her frenzy to stay alive. Winder, 23, said the voices of students screaming “Get out!” echoed above the sounds of gunfire and chaos.



	Kortney Moore, 18, of Rogue River, Ore., watched in disbelief as her Writing 115 class teacher took a bullet to the head as the mass killing started inside the classroom.
 
 
 
 
 
 
MICHAEL SULLIVAN/The News-Review
 
A student is carried away from campus.
 
 
 
 
KPTV
 
Police enter a building on the campus in Roseburg.
 
 
 
 
Ryan Kang/AP
 
A woman speaks on her phone as friends and family reunite at a nearby fairgrounds.
 
 
 
 
PIC BY SHERIDAN BEGLEY / CATERS/Caters News Agency
 
Survivors are taken away from the campus by bus.
 
 
 
 
The college is located in Roseburg, Ore.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



	Moore told The News-Review, a local newspaper, that she survived by lying on the ground amid bleeding gunshot victims until the shooting stopped.



	And she also recounted how the gunman, after blasting her teacher, inquired about his victims’ religious beliefs before the shootings.



	More than 100 local and federal law enforcement officials descended on the campus once it became a crime scene. Large numbers of students and teachers were kept under lockdown in campus buildings for up to 90 minutes once the gunfire finally stopped.



	“How does he have that much time?” Stacy Boylan asked on CNN. “I don’t understand that, how he could have that much time to kill that many people.”



	Authorities could not say how many shots were fired before the gunman was taken down in a gunfight with cops.



	The Roseburg cop who allegedly killed Mercer was identified by a neighbor as Sgt. Joe Kaney.
 
 
 
 
 
 



	“Well of course he’s a hero, yeah,” 
.



	Kaney declined to comment or confirm he was the one that took down the gunman.



	Three handguns and a rifle were reportedly found at the scene after the shooter’s death.



	Cops arriving on campus immediately called for ambulances as the operator directed them to the Snyder Hall classrooms.



	“We exchanged shots with him!” barked one officer just seconds later on a dramatic 911 recording. “He’s in a classroom on the east side of Snyder Hall!”



	The next transmission signaled the end of the slaughter: “The suspect is down. We’ve got multiple gunshot wounds (victims). We’re going to need multiple ambulances.”
 
 
 
 
MICHAEL SULLIVAN/The News-Review
 
Students are patted down by police after the shooting.
 
 
 



	Neighbor Lorie Andrews stood outside her Roseburg home as a steady stream of scared students passed her front door as they fled the campus.



	“One girl came out wrapped in a blanket with blood on her,” said Andrews, who compared the gunfire to fireworks.



	English teacher Amy Fair, in a Facebook account, described herself as “shell-shocked” after emerging from the classroom next door with her life.



	“HOLY S---,” she wrote. “They weren’t telling us anything as they put us on buses and drove us offsite. BIG THANKS to local authorities who were on-site within minutes, and to our UCC security & administrative staff, who stayed organized under incredible pressure.”



	It was unclear where the shooter obtained his small arsenal, but bringing the guns on campus was not against the law.



	Oregon is one of seven states that allows licensed gun owners to bring concealed weapons onto state campuses. Guns are banned in campus buildings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE NEWS-REVIEW
 
Students scattered on campus after the shooting.
 
 
 
 
AARON YOST/THE NEWS-REVIEW
 
Victims are loaded into an ambulance on campus.
 
 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/AP
 
A bullet casing is marked at the scene of the deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College.
 
 
 
 
Umpqua Community College/via Facebook
 
Nine people were killed and seven more injured in the shooting.
 
 
 
 
AARON YOST/THE NEWS-REVIEW
 
Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, Ore., received at least 10 patients in the aftermath of the shooting.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



	The killer easily outgunned campus security, which consisted of just a single officer per shift, according to former UCC President Joe Olsen.



	An incensed Obama, addressing yet another mass gun killing, 
 for their refusal to address an issue that tears American families apart with a sad regularity.



	More Americans were killed in the last 10 years by gun violence than terrorism, with the U.S. spending $1 trillion to prevent attacks on our soil — but refusing to change gun laws, the President said.



	“Our thoughts and prayers are not enough,” the President said in addressing the issue for the 15th time about a mass shooting since taking office in 2009. “We do not have sufficient common sense gun laws in the face of mass shootings.”



	Among those expressing vocal opposition to state and federal gun control legislation was Douglas County Sheriff Hanlin, who even 
.



	Hanlin wrote to Biden that his office would refuse to enforce gun-control restrictions “offending the constitutional rights of my citizens.”
 
 
 
 
4Chan
 
After the shooting, users on several message boards discovered a post on 4chan believed to be an early warning from the shooter.
 
 
 



	The sheriff, who praised the officers who confronted Mercer for their heroics, refused to name the shooter late Thursday.



	“The official ID will come from the medical examiner’s office,” Hanlin said. “I will not give him the credit he probably sought prior to this horrific and cowardly act.”



	Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton said she was stunned to read about yet another killing spree at yet another school.



	“We are seeing these mass murders happen again and again and again,” she said. And she encouraged Americans to “get the political will to do everything we can to keep people safe.”



	The explosion of violence began inside a classroom at the southwest Oregon campus, where many of the cops rushing to the scene had family or friends in the student body.



	Roughly 3,000 students, mostly part-timers, are enrolled in the rural college outside the timber town of Roseburg.
 
 
 
 
 
 



	“We are a small, tight community, and there is no doubt that we will have staff and students that have family and friends impacted by this event,” said local schools superintendent Gerry Washburn.



	The President was briefed by his Homeland Security Adviser Lisa Monaco and sought continued updates throughout the day.



	“This is a political choice that we make, to allow this to happen every few months in America,” Obama said. “We collectively in America are answerable to those who lose their loved ones because of our inaction.”



	Though the “vast majority of Americans” support the President’s position, including gun owners, Congress refuses to take any action on the issue.



	“I hope and I pray that I don’t have to come out again during my tenure as President to offer my condolences to families,” Obama said.



	“But based on my experience as President, I can’t guarantee that,” he said. “And that’s terrible to say, but it can change. God bless the families of those who were killed today ... and may he give us the strength to come together and find the courage to change.”
 
 
 
 
 
 



	Mercy Medical Center, a Roseburg hospital, received at least 10 patients, according to a spokesperson.



	And Sacred Heart Medical Center in Springfield, Ore., was treating three women between the ages of 18 and 34 — apparently the critical patients who were transferred to another facility.



	School officials quickly said that Umpqua Community College would remain shuttered through Monday as the investigation into the horrific event continued.




Nancy Dillon is reporting from Roseburg, Ore.




With News Wire Services




ON A MOBILE DEVICE? 
 
With 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tags:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


News
 Video






 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 