Gunman Opens Fire at Community College in Oregon - NBC News 

Gunman Opens Fire at Community College in Oregon - NBC News








































































NBC News














More 










Ongoing:




































Search




















Primary Navigation




































More 




































Secondary Navigation










Sections












































Top Ongoing






TV














Featured






























Multimedia










More From NBC






















































 NBC News works best with JavaScript turned on
            
























 










 























                  Oregon College Shooting
                
















































gallery






Oct 2 2015, 8:52 am ET












Gunman Opens Fire at Community College in Oregon




At least 10 people were killed after a gunman opened fire on the campus of Umpqua Community College in Oregon.


16 Photos








































Share
























Print






























1
. A.J. Sewell, 23, holds his daughter Alana, 2, during a vigil in Roseburg, Oregon, late on Oct. 1, 2015, for ten people killed and seven others wounded in a 
The shooter opened fire in a classroom then moved to other rooms methodically gunning down his victims, witnesses said.
      The gunman was killed in a firefight with sheriff's deputies. 
Cengiz Yar Jr. / AFP - Getty Images




















2
. People take part in candle light vigil following the mass shooting. 
Steve Dipaola / Reuters




















3
. Women comfort each other at the vigil. 
Josh Edelson / AFP - Getty Images














 










 
















4
. Umpqua Community College alumnus Donice Smith is embraced after she said one of her former teachers was shot dead, near the site of the mass shooting. 
Steve Dipaola / Reuters




















5
. Friends and family are reunited with students at the local fairgrounds. 
Ryan Kang / AP




















6
. Friends and family wait for students at the local fairgrounds after the shootings. 
Ryan Kang / AP














 










 
















7
. People hold signs for free rides as friends and family wait for students at the local fairgrounds after the shootings. 
Ryan Kang / AP




















8
. Students, staff and faculty are evacuated from Umpqua Community College after the shootings.  
Michael Sullivan / The News-Review via AP




















9
. Hannah Miles, center, is reunited with her sister Hailey Miles and father Gary Miles after the shootings. 
Ryan Kang / AP














 










 
















10
. Authorities respond to the shootings. 
Michael Sullivan / The News-Review via AP




















11
. Two women wait outside the college. 
Ryan Kang / AP




















12
. Police search students after the shootings at Umpqua Community College. 
Mike Sullivan / Roseburg News-Review via AP














 










 
















13
. A woman is comforted as friends and family wait for students at the local fairgrounds after the shootings. 
Ryan Kang / AP




















14
. Police search students outside the college.  
Mike Sullivan / Roseburg News-Review via AP




















15
. A patient is wheeled into the emergency room at Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, Oregon, after the shootings at Umpqua Community College. 
Aaron Yost / Roseburg News-Review via AP




















16
. Authorities move from building to building to secure the campus at Umpqua Community College after a report of a deadly shooting, in Roseburg, Ore., Thursday, October 1. 
Michael Sullivan / The News-Review via AP


















Topics 
, 




First Published
 
Oct 1 2015, 5:04 pm ET
















 Next Story
























































New


























© 2015 NBCnews.com









































































































