‘It’s been a terrible day:’ Leaders, politicians react to deadly Oregon community college shooting | Q13 FOX News  


‘It’s been a terrible day:’ Leaders, politicians react to deadly Oregon community college shooting | Q13 FOX News














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































57°






Low 
53°


High 
64°












Sat





					53° 
 68°
					






Sun





					52° 
 74°
					






Mon





					53° 
 74°
					
















 








 




























 








‘It’s been a terrible day:’ Leaders, politicians react to deadly Oregon community college shooting




Posted 2:29 PM, October 1, 2015, by 
, 
Updated at 05:03pm, October 1, 2015
 




 


















Red Cross center at Douglas County Fairgrounds.  Photo courtesy Cree Riggs
 






×


‘It’s been a terrible day:’ Leaders, politicians react to deadly Oregon community college shooting






 
Red Cross center at Douglas County Fairgrounds.  Photo courtesy Cree Riggs






News of Thursday’s 
 quickly reverberated through Congress, the 2016 campaign trail and the White House, with President Barack Obama making his fifteenth statement of his presidency addressing gun violence.




In this story




Sen. Ron Wyden, Oregon's senior senator, was visibly shaken as he rushed back to his office at the Dirksen Senate Office Building


Sen. Jeff Merkley tweeted that he was praying for the victims and their families






Obama said Thursday that “thoughts and prayers” are no longer enough to prevent another mass shooting, citing the deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College.


“As I said just a few months ago, and I said a few months before that, and I said each time I see one of these mass shootings, our thoughts and prayers are not enough. It’s not enough,” Obama said from the White House briefing room. “It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel, and it does not to prevent this carnage from being inflicted someplace else in America next week or a couple months from now.”


At least 10 people were killed and more than 20 others were injured in the shooting, according to preliminary information from the Oregon State Police. Authorities said the shooter, a 20-year-old man, was dead, and investigators are examining social media postings they believe were made by him as they try to determine a motive.


Vice President Joe Biden speaking at the Concordia Summit in New York said, “We’re basically only the civilized country in the world with so many mass shootings.”


“I want to say, there’s few things worse than getting that phone call saying your child is gone, your child is gone, or your brother, or sister, or husband, or wife,” Biden said, adding later, “The second amendment doesn’t say you can own an F15 with hellfire missiles.”


The Oregon delegation mourns


Members of congress from across the country and both sides of the aisle quickly expressed their sympathies for those that were killed, but members of the Oregon delegation appeared deeply affected on the Hill and on social media.


Sen. Ron Wyden was visibly shaken as he rushed back to his office at the Dirksen Senate Office Building, declining to take questions from reporters.


Wyden later tweeted, “Oregonians everywhere want Roseburg to know we’re praying for them.”


The state’s junior senator, Jeff Merkley, tweeted that he was praying for the victims and their families.


“I am absolutely heartbroken by today’s news,” Merkley later said in a statement. “I have been in touch with local officials to express my deepest condolences and offer my assistance in any way possible and I will continue to monitor this tragedy and its response. The hearts and thoughts of all Oregonians are with the victims, their families and the entire UCC and Roseburg communities.”


Oregon Gov. Kate Brown tweeted that she was thinking about the victims.


The governor said at a news conference that law enforcement is still uncovering facts.


“We know now that there were casualties and confirmed injuries. Our top priority now is the medical treatment for victims and the security of the campus,” he said. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. We are holding the community of Douglas County in our hearts today.”


Oregon Rep. Peter DeFazio said in a statement that he hopes to work with other lawmakers to prevent similar incidents.


“Today’s shooting in Roseburg is a heartbreaking tragedy, and my thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. I want to extend my deepest gratitude to Roseburg’s first responders for their work in responding to the event,” he said. “Once we know more about what happened today, I plan to work with my colleagues in Congress to find ways to prevent tragedies such as these.”


Oregon Rep. Greg Walden called the killings “heartbreaking.”


“Today’s news out of Roseburg is heartbreaking. My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims of this terrible tragedy, their families, and the entire community,” he said. “Oregon and the entire nation mourn this senseless loss.”


2016 hopefuls express their condolences


Presidential candidates also commented on the tragedy, with Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton calling for “sensible gun control measures” during a campaign stop in Boston.


“It is just beyond my comprehension that we are seeing these mass murders happen again and again and again,” Clinton said. “And as I have said, we have got to get the political will to do everything we can to keep people safe. You know, I know there is a way to have sensible gun control measures that help prevent violence, prevent guns from getting into the wrong hands and save lives. And I am committed to doing everything I can to achieve that.”


But Ben Carson told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt that more gun control is not the answer.


“Obviously, that’s not the issue,” he said. “The issue is the mentality of these people and we need to be looking at the mentality of the individuals and seeing if there are any early warning clues that we can gather that will help us as a society to be able to identify these people ahead of time.”


Shortly after the news broke, Vermont independent Sen. Bernie Sanders called for increased gun-control legislation, improving the mental health system as well toning “down the incredibly high level of gratuitous violence which permeates our media.”


“As a nation, we must do everything we can to put an end to this awful epidemic of senseless slaughter,” Sanders said.


Jeb Bush also expressed his condolences on Twitter, calling the shooting a “senseless tragedy.”


Martin O’Malley tweeted about the victims’ loss.


And Lindsey Graham said he was praying for the victims.




38.907192


-77.036871










Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
, 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










AM News
Breaking news and information right when you can use it. 
Bill, Liz, Kaci and M.J. are Seattle’s morning news team weekdays 4:30a – 10a.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts










































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































