Presidential Candidates Respond - The New York Times  








Presidential Candidates Respond - The New York Times










Sections




Home




Search























			                Live Coverage			        


|

        Presidential Candidates Respond        
    








Advertisement














Search






Log In


0


Settings










Close search




search sponsored by














Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go


















 
























 
Mass Shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon: Live Updates







						The New York Times					


October 1, 2015


October 1, 2015
 




























2:56 pm ET


Oct 1, 2015


2015-10-02T04:28:11+00:00


















 


The Times has concluded its live coverage of the shooting at Umpqua Community College. Look back at how events unfolded below.




 and seven were wounded in a mass shooting at a community college in southwestern Oregon, according to law enforcement officials.


A law enforcement official identified the gunman as Chris Harper Mercer, 26. The authorities said he died during an exchange of gunfire.


Officials said he had three weapons, including a long gun and handguns.
















6:13 pm ET


Oct 1, 2015


2015-10-01T22:17:50+00:00












Alan Rappeport


 








 


Presidential candidates have started extending their sympathies over the tragedy and have so far resisted using it as a reason to debate gun control.


On Twitter, Jeb Bush said that he was “Praying for Umpqua Community College, the victims, and families impacted by this senseless tragedy.”


Gov. John Kasich echoed those sentiments, writing: “The thoughts and prayers of Ohioans go out to the families & victims of the tragic shooting in Oregon today.”


Senator Bernie Sanders wrote on Twitter that his heart went out to the families of the victims.


Another senseless tragedy with more innocent people killed. Our hearts go out to the families. -B


— Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) 


And Martin O’Malley said: “My heart is with those who lost so much today in Oregon.”


Donald J. Trump, who tends to be very opinionated on social media, did not weigh in on the shooting there. But in an interview with The Washington Post, he called it a “terrible tragedy” and said it is hard to talk about something so sad. Bewildered by the increasing frequency of such events, he said, “we really have to get to the bottom of it.”






 




















Photo




Credit
 Google Earth














Officials said Chris Harper Mercer, 26, went on a shooting rampage in Roseburg, Ore., and that he died after an exchange of gunfire with the police.


U.S.


By DIRK VANDERHART, KIRK JOHNSON and JULIE TURKEWITZ


October 2, 2015










 
















Advertisement






















 The New York Times Company






































 



























