UGA student found dead on campus; fifth student death this year | Online Athens 

UGA student found dead on campus; fifth student death this year | Online Athens






 














 












































 


































































Choose Category


Today's Headlines


Sports


Entertainment


Lifestyle


Jobs


Auto


Deals


Shopping


Real Estate


Obituaries


Horoscopes


Slideshows






















































































































 
 


 


















































 








 
Current weather








powered by: 
            	       


















57°


Overcast, mist, rain














 








 




















 












































































Courtesy Facebook














































UGA student found dead on campus; fifth student death this year




By 
updated Saturday, March 21, 2015 - 10:35pm
close
Criminal justice reporter
 














Not even three full months into the year and the University of Georgia on Thursday registered its fifth student death of 2015.


Mikal Ghirmazghi, 21, died Thursday evening in her Russell Hall dorm room, possibly from a preexisting medical condition, according to Clarke County Coroner Sonny Wilson.


“When she was talking to her mother Thursday morning she said she didn’t feel good,” Wilson said. “She didn’t report for some classes that day and she wasn’t answering her phone. Her mother called the folks at Russell Hall and they had someone check on her and it seems she had been deceased all day.”


Wilson said the Ghirmazghi’s passing likely will be ruled a “medical death.”


“She had some medical history and there were some diabetic issues, but I don’t know if that’s what caused her to die,” he said.


An autopsy is scheduled for Saturday morning, according to Wilson.


Less than a month ago, on Feb. 25, UGA student Philip Carpenter was found dead in his downtown Athens apartment. Authorities said there was no evidence of foul play in the death of the 23-year-old musician and agribusiness student. Wilson said he still is awaiting a final autopsy report.


That same month, on Feb. 10, 18-year-old Tanzila Alam died at Athens Regional Medical Center. Her death also appeared to have been medical in nature, according to the coroner, who said a final autopsy report had yet to be filed.


For days, social media posts and news reports stated that the student died from bacterial meningitis. An uncle told the Gwinnett Daily Post that he understood from doctors that Alam had non-contagious encephalitis which, like meningitis, causes inflammation in the brain.


The year began tragically at UGA, when early in the morning of Jan. 10, students were returning home from a night out and found one of their friends unresponsive in the back seat of their car.


 Responding UGA police officers performed CPR on 19-year-old Michael McClary, who was pronounced dead at the hospital.


A recently filed autopsy report from the Georgia Bureau of Investigation indicated that McClary’s death was alcohol-related, according to Wilson.


Four days later, 21-year-old Min Seok Cho was shot and killed during a marijuana transaction. Authorities said he and another UGA student met two men at a restaurant on Baxter Street for a planned deal, which turned into an armed robbery when Cho and Lucas Raposo went with the men to a nearby apartment complex to complete the exchange.


Wilson said he could not recall so many deaths of UGA students in a period of less than three months.


“Some years we don’t see any deaths at all,” the coroner said.


Follow Criminal Justice reporter Joe Johnson at 
 or www.twitter.com/JoeJohnsonABH.










OnlineAthens.com aims to foster constructive, respectful civic conversation. With your help, we will provide a friendly, safe, easy to use place on the Web for everyone in the area to share not only opinions but also information of community interest.  Racist, harassing, abusive and libelous comments will not be tolerated.


By logging in or creating a new account, you agree to our 


If you are logging in for the first time after June 29, 2015, you will need to 
.


































Go to the previous story






Go to the previous story


































 






 




















 






















CONTACT US






Switchboard: 706-549-0123


Circulation and Delivery: 706-208-2300


Newsroom Tip: 706-208-2211


Obituary Clerk: 706-208-2355


Accounts Receivable: 706-549-0123


 the Staff Directory


or 
 feedback








ADVERTISING




 a Sales Representative


 a Classified Ad




 Automobile


 Homes








SUBSCRIBER SERVICES




 to the Banner Herald


 a Temporary Vacation Stop


 a Billing Question


 Delivery Address


 a Delivery Problem








SOCIAL NETWORKING




 us on Twitter


 our Facebook page


 us on Google Plus


 us on Instagram










 




 




Athens, GA • Athens Banner-Herald ©2015.  All Rights Reserved.








 









