Chattanooga shooting: 4 Marines killed, dead suspect identified | FOX2now.com  


Chattanooga shooting: 4 Marines killed, dead suspect identified | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































53°






Low 
48°


High 
69°












Sat





					49° 
 67°
					






Sun





					48° 
 66°
					






Mon





					55° 
 75°
					
















 








 






















 








Chattanooga shooting: 4 Marines killed, dead suspect identified




Posted 2:40 pm, July 16, 2015, by 
, 
Updated at 03:47pm, July 16, 2015
 




 


















Four Marines were killed in Thursday's shooting in Chattanooga, Tennessee, a senior defense official told CNN's Barbara Starr. The families of those killed are being notified of their deaths, the official said.
 






×


Chattanooga shooting: 4 Marines killed, dead suspect identified






 
Four Marines were killed in Thursday's shooting in Chattanooga, Tennessee, a senior defense official told CNN's Barbara Starr. The families of those killed are being notified of their deaths, the official said.






Four Marines were killed in a shooting at a Naval Reserve center in Chattanooga, Tennessee, on Thursday morning, a senior defense official said.


The suspected gunman is also dead, Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke said.


The alleged gunman in Thursday’s shootings in Chattanooga, Tennessee, is Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez, according to two sources briefed on the case. He was born in 1990, a law enforcement official said.


Investigators “have not determined whether it was an act of terrorism or whether it was a criminal act,” Ed Reinhold, FBI special agent in charge, told reporters. “We are looking at every possible avenue, whether it was terrorism — whether it was domestic, international — or whether it was a simple, criminal act.”


U.S. Attorney Bill Killian earlier told reporters that authorities were treating the shooting as an “act of domestic terrorism.”


Witnesses said the shootings unfolded at two sites. First, a man sprayed bullets at the glass doors of a military recruiting center at a strip mall on Lee Highway.


From there, the suspected gunman headed to another location more than seven miles away, the Naval Reserve center on Amnicola Highway.


That’s where the four victims and the gunman were killed, Reinhold said. The shooting started around 10:45 a.m., he said, and ended within 30 minutes.


A police officer, who was injured when he was shot in the ankle, has been treated at the hospital, Berke said.


‘It was very loud and very fast’

“Today was a nightmare for the city of Chattanooga. … We had someone viciously attack, at two different locations, people who proudly serve our country,” Berke said.


Gina Mule, a server at a restaurant, said she saw a man who’d been in a silver convertible Mustang, firing a “high-powered rifle” at the recruiting offices at about 10:50 a.m.


She said she first heard “Pow, pow, pow!” She then went to a window, through which she said she saw the man firing shots.


“I don’t know how many shots he fired, but it was a lot,” she said.


A second witness, April Grimmett, said she was working at a hair salon near the recruiting center when she looked out a window and saw a man ducking in between cars.


“Shortly after that, we heard the (shots). It was very loud and very fast,” Grimmett said, without saying what happened to the man she had seen.


A photo that she took shows glass doors damaged by the gunfire.


“I could not believe how many bullet holes were in that door. It was insane,” she said.


Fred Wright, a salesman at a nearby auto parts store, told CNN that after he heard gunshots, three people ran into the shop, hollering they thought “someone was shooting at them.”


Wright said he called 911.


“Sounded like it was 30, 40 shots to me,” Wright said, adding that he never saw a shooter.


Mayor decries ‘horrific’ shooting

“Horrific incident in our community,” Berke, the mayor, tweeted. “We will release details as they are confirmed. Prayers to all those affected.”


Photos posted on Twitter by media outlets showed police blocking a road and a large number of patrol cars.


Chattanooga State Community College asked people on its main campus to stay inside because of a “confirmed shooting,” the school said on Twitter.


Memorial Hospital in Chattanooga is “on precautionary lockdown” due to the shooting reports, hospital system spokeswoman Lisa McCluskey said.


“We have not received any shooting victims,” McCluskey said. “We are still accepting new patients.” The lockdown, she said, “is just a precautionary measure.”


By Jason Hanna, Greg Botelho and Catherine E. Shoichet, CNN


CNN’s Evan Perez, Shimon Prokupecz, Devon Sayers, Ashley Fantz and Victor Blackwell contributed to this report.








Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
, 
, 
, 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Have a news tip?
Do you have a story you want FOX 2 to investigate?  E-mail us.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps






































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































