Shooting | Heavy.com 

Shooting | Heavy.com














































































































































































 











      Shooting    












Get The Top 5 News Stories Each Day in Your InBox 
We will never share your email address.
 


 




















The Westboro Baptist Church has tweeted from their account saying they will picket the funerals of the victims of the Umpqua Community College shooting.





        12 hours ago      




 


























A blog post allegedly written by reported Umpqua Community College gunman Chris Mercer Harper seems to idolize Vester Flanagan, the man who killed 2 WDBJ7 TV reporters on-camera.







      12 hours ago    




 


9.5k
 


















Alleged Umpqua Community College shooter Chris Harper Mercer took the lives of 10 people in Roseburg, Oregon. He had an online dating profile on “Spiritual Passions.”







      13 hours ago    




 


33k
 
















Chris Harper Mercer has been named as the shooter who killed multiple people a Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, October 1. 







      14 hours ago    




 


1.7m
 
















Multiple people are dead after a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. There are reports that as many as 10 may be dead.







      19 hours ago    




 


776
 
















The latest American tragedy is being reported on by students from inside the campus. 







      19 hours ago    




 


4.2k
 
















There are multiple casualties after a mass shooting at a community college in Oregon. 







      20 hours ago    




 


8.8k
 


















A suspect is in custody after a South Carolina cop was killed while responding to a call about a “suspicious person” at a mall in Columbia. 







      1 day ago    




 


4k
 
















A cop who had just become a father was killed in the line of duty at South Carolina mall. A suspect, Jarvis Hall, has been arrested in relation to the crime. 







      1 day ago    




 


11.8k
 
















Police in Columbia, South Carolina, are responding to an early morning shots fired call at a local mall.







      2 days ago    




 


1.8k
 
















A 37-year-old woman was gunned down by the LAPD in broad daylight on September 28. The police say that Norma Guzman had been threatening them with a knife.







      3 days ago    




 


493
 
















A Native American man has been arrested in southern California after two people were shot dead in seemingly random attacks on September 27. The suspect was apparently going door-to-door in the town of Banning looking for his children.







      4 days ago    




 


1.8k
 


















A 57-year-old man who was just released from prison has been accused of killing three women in separate incidents across rural Canada. 







      1 week ago    




 


15k
 
















Shots were fired outside of the capitol building in Lincoln, Nebraska.







      1 week ago    




 


751
 
















An alleged gunman has been arrested from Canada’s oldest Polish community after he initiated a lockdown that went all the way to Ottawa.







      1 week ago    




 


3.4k
 
















An Oakland Athletics minor league player is fighting for his life after a shooting at a New York Burger King. 







      2 weeks ago    




 


7.4k
 








Posts navigation






























	Copyright © 2015 Heavy, Inc. All rights reserved. Powered by 









































