Investigators of Oregon Shooting Seek Answers as Victims Are Mourned - The New York Times  








Investigators of Oregon Shooting Seek Answers as Victims Are Mourned - The New York Times
















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.






















Sections




Home




Search
























|
Investigators of Oregon Shooting Seek Answers as Victims Are Mourned








Advertisement
















Search






Log In


0


Settings










Close search






search sponsored by














Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go
























Loading...










See next articles












See previous articles


















 
















Advertisement














 


Investigators of Oregon Shooting Seek Answers as Victims Are Mourned




By 
 and 
DIRK VANDERHART
OCT. 2, 2015






Inside








Supported by




























Slide Show
|
9 Photos


Deadly Day on an Oregon Campus




Deadly Day on an Oregon Campus


Credit
Gosia Wozniacka/Associated Press        








Advertisement




































Share This Page


















ROSEBURG, Ore. — As people mourned the dead, treated the injured and comforted the survivors, investigators on Friday tried to piece together why a gunman went on a shooting rampage at a community college here in rural southern Oregon.
The 
 on Thursday morning, by a 26-year-old man identified as 
, left 10 people dead and seven wounded. Law enforcement officials said he had three weapons, at least one of which was a long gun, and that the others were believed to be handguns.
On Friday morning, John Hanlin, the Douglas County sheriff, told CNN that investigators had spent the night trying to reach neighbors and acquaintances of the gunman, and that they were still processing evidence from the crime scene. The gunman died in an exchange of fire with officers who rushed to the campus in response to 911 calls.
Law enforcement officials said one witness had told them that the gunman, Mr. Mercer, had asked about people’s religions before he began firing. “He appears to be an angry young man who was very filled with hate,” one law enforcement official said.




Video




Oregon Gunman’s Family Reacts to Attack






Family members of Chris Harper Mercer, who is suspected of shooting and killing 10 people on Thursday at a college in Oregon, described their shock at the events.



                    By REUTERS on                                                                
Publish Date 
October 2, 2015.
                                    






































Investigators are also poring over what one official described as “hateful” writings by Mr. Mercer, 
 by people who encountered him as awkward, socially isolated and even mentally disturbed..
With the State Police and several local law enforcement agencies aiding in the response, Sheriff Hanlin said Thursday, “I’m guessing we have well over 100 detectives and uniformed officers out there.”
But on Friday he voiced caution about reaching any conclusions. “It is really too early to tell what the motive was,” he said. “We hope to get to the bottom of that in the next couple of days.”


Photo














Patients were taken to Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, Ore.




Credit

            Aaron Yost/Roseburg News-Review, via Associated Press        






Of 10 people who were rushed to Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, four underwent surgery for gunshot wounds, including one who died in the operating room, and two others were treated for less serious injuries and released, hospital officials said Friday at a predawn news conference. Three of the most seriously hurt were taken to PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center in Eugene.


Advertisement






Jason Gray, chief medical officer at Mercy, said that two of the gunshot victims there remained in critical but stable condition, and that he expected the other to be discharged Friday. He described gunshot wounds to the abdomen, chest, head and extremities.
Hospital officials that stressed the facility was prepared for incidents like Thursday’s attack, but also noted the toll the shooting had taken in a town this size. “One of our biggest challenges is supporting not only our patients and families, but also our caregivers,” Gray said. “It’s been less than 24 hours. It’s still very raw. “
 





                Recurring Sorrow: President Obama’s Remarks After Gun Violence            

                A selection of President Obama’s comments after previous mass shootings.            












Umpqua Community College remained closed on Friday and said it would not reopen until Monday. “Right now, it is a crime scene,” Rita Cavin, the interim president of the college, said.
Hours after the shooting, several hundred people gathered at dusk for a candlelight vigil at Stewart Park here, about eight miles south of the college. Amid singing, bagpipe playing and prayers, college students and others tearfully mourned the dead. Speakers included Gov. Kate Brown. Candles and boxes of tissue lay scattered on the grass.


Advertisement










Advertisement






“We know this is not going to be our defining moment,” John Blackwood, a computer science teacher at Umpqua Community College, said in a brief speech. “We’re going to go back to school Monday. We will not be terrorized, and we will not be intimidated by these types of people.”


Photo














Family and friends were reunited at a nearby fairgrounds after a gunman opened fire at 
Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.




Credit

            Ryan Kang/Associated Press        






Fighting back tears, the Roseburg city manager, Lance Colley, said: “It’s been the worst day of everybody’s life in the community. We’re not used to tragedies.”
Mayors from across the country had reached out to him, he said, as had people whose lives have been touched by mass shootings, including the president of Virginia Tech, where a 
.
Officials said that they would not release the name of the victims until Friday at the earliest, and that notifying their families was their top priority.




Video




Dispatcher Alerts Police of Shooting






On Thursday afternoon, police officers secured the scene of a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.



                    By REUTERS on                                                                
Publish Date 
October 1, 2015.
                                    



                                            Photo by Mike Sullivan/Roseburg News-Review, via Associated Press.
                                    


































The shooting prompted an angry and frustrated response on Thursday from President Obama, 
 should move Americans to demand greater gun controls from elected officials.
“Somehow this has become routine,” Mr. Obama said. “I’d ask the American people to think about how they can get our government to change these laws, and to save these lives and let these people grow up.”
Tactical teams and bomb technicians had cleared all the buildings on campus by late Thursday, and were working to clear the hundreds of vehicles still parked on campus, Sheriff Hanlin said. Teams from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Oregon State Police were collecting evidence from the crime scene.


Photo














Personnel from several law enforcement agencies converged on the campus. “We all froze for about half a second” when the shots broke out, one student said.




Credit

            Michael Sullivan/The News-Review, via Associated Press        






Speaking about the gunman, Sheriff Hanlin asked that people avoid “any glorification and sensationalization of him.”
“I don’t want to glorify the shooter,” he said. “I don’t want to glorify his name. I don’t want to glorify his cause.”
Officers with the Department of Homeland Security arrived Thursday night at a dun-colored apartment complex here near the college, where Mr. Mercer was reported to have lived. The authorities had cordoned off the building, and three neighbors said they recognized photographs of the gunman.




Video




Obama on Oregon College Shooting






The president delivered remarks from the White House after a gunman opened fire at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.



                    By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS on                                                                
Publish Date 
October 1, 2015.
                                    



                                            Photo by Zach Gibson/The New York Times.
                                    


































Federal law enforcement officials said they were examining an online conversation on 4chan, an anonymous message board, as well as on other social media, to determine whether any of it was linked to the gunman. In that conversation, one writer said, “Don’t go to school tomorrow if you are in the Northwest.”
Roseburg, with a population of 22,000 and about 180 miles south of Portland, is a part of the Pacific Northwest that in many ways has been left behind while the region has moved toward an economy of technology and high wages. Once a major center for wood milling, it has struggled in recent decades as the timber harvests in the national forests that hug the community have declined.
Grape cultivation for wine has helped somewhat, but poverty and unemployment rates are high. In August, according to the most recent government figures, Douglas County had an 
 of 8.1 percent, tied for the second-highest in the state. About 20 percent of residents in the city and county live below the federal poverty line.
Umpqua Community College, which has about 3,000 students, reflects that struggle, with many of its students coming back to school to gain skills for a career change. The average student is 37, and popular courses of study include winemaking, nursing, welding and auto mechanics.
“It’s a community college, so a lot of our friends and family attend this college,” Sheriff Hanlin said.
The issue of gun control has recently roiled Oregon. This year, state legislators passed a law closing a loophole for background checks on private gun sales, after years of trying to win support for it.
Sheriff Hanlin had forcefully lobbied against gun control after previous school shootings, but on Friday he told CNN that now was not the time to discuss gun control.
“We want to focus on completing this investigation, doing a thorough investigation,” he said. “And more importantly we want to focus on the families of the victims.”
















Loading...
























Site Index
















News
























































































Opinion


















































































Arts


















































































Living
























































































Listings & More




































































































Subscribe




Subscribe




















































































































 The New York Times Company







































































