Virginia Tech Shooting Leaves 33 Dead - NYTimes.com 

Virginia Tech Shooting Leaves 33 Dead - NYTimes.com




































 












Search All NYTimes.com




































 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 




















Virginia Tech Shooting Leaves 33 Dead




Stephen Crowley/The New York Times


Virginia Tech students prayed in a church near the university after a shooting rampage. 


 


 
By 
 and ANAHAD O’CONNOR




Published: April 16, 2007    


































 











































Thirty-three people were killed Monday on the campus of 
 in what appears to be the deadliest shooting rampage in American history, according to federal law enforcement officials. Many of the victims were students shot in a dorm and a classroom building.        








Multimedia 


 Back Story With Michael Mather (
)


 Video: 
 | 






Readers' Opinions 






Comment on the shooting at Virginia Tech.














 
 


 
Multimedia
















































Related







(April 16, 2007)















Follow 
 for breaking news and headlines.
















Alan Kim/The Roanoke Times, via Associated Press


Emergency workers carried people from Norris Hall on the campus of Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Va., on Monday after a gunman killed 32 people.                            











“Today, the university was struck with a tragedy that we consider of monumental proportions,” said the university’s president, Charles Steger. The campus police chief said this evening that 15 people were wounded by the gunman, although there were other reports of higher numbers of injuries.        

Witnesses described scenes of mass chaos and unimaginable horror as some students were lined up against a wall and shot. Others jumped out of windows to escape, or crouched on floors to take cover.        

The killings occurred in two separate attacks on the campus in Blacksburg, Va. The first took place around 7:15 a.m., when two people were shot and killed at a dormitory. More than two and a half hours later, 31 others, including the gunman, were shot and killed across campus in a classroom building, where some of the doors had been chained. Victims were found in different locations around the building.        

The first attack started as students were getting ready for classes or were on their way there. The university did not evacuate the campus or notify students of that attack until several hours later.        

As the rampage unfolded, details emerged from witnesses describing a gunman going room to room in a dormitory, Ambler Johnston Hall, and of gunfire later at Norris Hall, a science and engineering classroom building. When it was over, even sidewalks were stained with blood. Among those dead was the gunman, whose body was found along with victims in Norris Hall.        

“Norris Hall is a tragic and sorrowful crime scene,” said the campus police chief at Virginia Tech, Wendell Flinchum.        

Chief Flinchum said the gunman took his own life. He said at a televised news briefing Monday evening that the police had a preliminary identification of the suspected gunman but were not yet ready to release it. He said the gunman was not a student.        

According to a federal law enforcement official, the gunman did not have identification and could not be easily identified visually because of the severity of an apparently self-inflicted wound to the head. He said investigators were trying to trace purchase records for two handguns found near the body.        

At televised news conferences Monday afternoon and Monday evening, Chief Flinchum and Mr. Steger tried to explain why authorities did not act to secure the rest of the campus immediately after the first shooting.        

Chief Flinchum said that initially officials thought that the shooting was “domestic,” suggesting that it was between individuals who knew each other, and isolated to the dormitory. He said the campus was not shut down after the first shooting because authorities thought that the attacker may have left the campus, or even the state.        

“We knew we had two people shot,” he said. “We secured the building. We secured the crime scene.” He later added: “We acted on the best information we had at the time.”        

Chief Flinchum said officers initially began investigating a “person of interest” as a result of the dormitory shootings. The person, a man, was described as a friend of one of the dorm victims, but Chief Flinchum said the police had not detained him.        

At 9:45, the police got another 911 call about shootings at Norris Hall, just as university officials were meeting to discuss the first shootings. “We were actually having a meeting about the earlier shootings when we learned that another shooting was under way,” Mr. Steger told reporters Monday night. By the time officers arrived, the shooting had stopped and the gunman had killed himself, the chief said.        

The police appeared to believe that the two shootings were related, but said they could not confirm that until they had the results of a ballistics analysis.        

A parent of one student, Elaine Goss, said her son Alec Calhoun, a junior engineering major, jumped out a second-story window in Norris Hall when the gunman entered his classroom.        

She said that she first spoke to her son, “I couldn’t understand him; it was like gibberish.”        

“It took a while to figure out shootings, lots of shootings, and that his whole class had jumped out the window,” she said.        

Ms. Goss said her son hurt his back in the jump and went to a hospital.        

Another student, Jessica Paulson, said she was on the fourth floor at Ambler Johnston Hall when the shootings occurred on the opposite side of the floor.        
 1 
 
 
 


Reporting was contributed by David Johnston,  Edmund L. Andrews, Sarah Abruzzese, Cate Doty and David Stout.
 


 








 
















 








































 


























































 






Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics






























































 


















 




 




 




 




 








 




 




 








 




 
























 



            Inside NYTimes.com        


















 




















 






















Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.












 






























 










































 




















 




















 












































New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.










































































































































 


 















































