Rally held for college student killed by Long Beach police | abc7.com 

Rally held for college student killed by Long Beach police | abc7.com




















GO
















Personalize your weather by entering a location.


Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.




















































 






































 


















































 


 




























 


 




























 


 


 




 






















 




Follow Us










 




 




























Rally held for college student killed by Long Beach police


















You need Flash to watch this video.
Sorry, your browser doesn't 
, needs a 
, or has Flash disabled.
















A rally was held Thursday in Long Beach for Feras Morad, a 20-year-old man who was shot and killed Saturday by a Long Beach police officer.


 


















Embed








<iframe width="476" height="270" src="http://abc7.com/video/embed/?pid=767360" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
	
















By
			
						

















	
			Thursday, June 04, 2015
			
		






LONG BEACH, Calif. (KABC) -- 

				A rally was held Thursday in Long Beach for Feras Morad, a 
 by a Long Beach police officer.
Demonstrators met at Lincoln Park and protested outside of the police station, demanding answers in Morad's killing including the name of the officer who shot him.
Morad, who ingested hallucinogenic mushrooms at the time, was not listening to police commands and was unarmed.
 
 
The Woodland Hills native was a Moorpark College student and debate champion. He was so talented and respected that even the students who debated against him attended the rally from as far as Arizona.
Friends and family said Morad dreamed of one day becoming an attorney who would fight against police brutality.
"This is definitely something he was interested in. He wanted to be a public defender. He wanted to do what was right," friend Kamiran Dadah said. "I think he would be very proud. He would be happy. He would want to see the change happen. He would just want everyone to be united."
The Long Beach Police Department said it is conducting an independent investigation into the incident.
			


 




Related Topics:







































	 (Copyright ©2015 KABC-TV. All Rights Reserved.) 

































Please enable JavaScript to view comments.
























 
















Related


















































NEWS






























































































Top Stories


























































































































































































 


















Top Video


















































































 


 






 








































































































































GO










Follow Us





















































































































		Copyright © 2015 ABC Inc., KABC-TV Los Angeles. All Rights Reserved.
		


















Personalize your weather by entering a location.


Sorry, but the location you entered was not found. Please try again.




















































 


 


































 


















































 


 




























 


 




























 


 


 




 




























 




Follow Us










 




 
















GO










Follow Us










 

































		Copyright © 2015 ABC Inc., KABC-TV Los Angeles
						
					


 






 

















































































