Oregon Tightened Gun-Buying Restrictions in Weeks Before Shooting - NBC News 

Oregon Tightened Gun-Buying Restrictions in Weeks Before Shooting - NBC News








































































NBC News














More 










Ongoing:




































Search




















Primary Navigation




































More 




































Secondary Navigation










Sections












































Top Ongoing






TV














Featured






























Multimedia










More From NBC






















































 NBC News works best with JavaScript turned on
            
























 










 























                  Oregon College Shooting
                
















































Oct 1 2015, 5:30 pm ET










Oregon Tightened Gun-Buying Restrictions in Weeks Before Shooting






by
 
Jon Schuppe


















Share
























Print




























 




























Embed






 


4:40




autoplay 


autoplay 








Copy this code to your website or blog














 Thursday's mass shooting on a college campus in Oregon came just weeks after the state recently tightened restrictions on gun purchases. 


 A law that went into effect on Aug. 9 requires background checks for transactions made between individuals and online. Previously, checks were mandatory only for people seeking to buy a gun from a federally licensed dealer — at a gun store or gun show. 


 It is not clear where or when the shooter in Thursday's attack obtained his weapon nor whether the new law would have had any impact. 








 




 Gun-control advocates said the new measure would prevent criminals and the mentally ill from buying guns. 


 Left unclear, however, was how the expanded checks would be enforced. 


 The law requires a private seller and buyer — unless they are related — to go together to a licensed dealer who would conduct the check, for a fee. But critics of the legislation pointed out that someone accused of skirting the law could easily claim the sale was conducted before the new requirements became law. 


 Sheriffs in some rural counties 
, saying it would require too much work. In fact, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin, whose jurisdiction includes the 
 in Roseburg, had said in March that he opposed the new law. 


 








 






















Jon Schuppe




















Topics 
, 




First Published
 
Oct 1 2015, 5:30 pm ET
















 Next Story






























































 










































New


























© 2015 NBCnews.com









































































































