Oregon passes a bill to offer free community college - Jul. 8, 2015   
Oregon passes a bill to offer free community college - Jul. 8, 2015 
 
 
 








Our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy have changed.


By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the new 
 and 
.






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oregon passes a bill to offer free community college
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
By Emily Jane Fox 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Good news for young people in Oregon: the state is set to offer free community college enrollment next year.
 
 The Oregon state legislature passed a bill last week with bipartisan support that ensures that if eligible students apply for federal grants for community college, the states will cover the remainder of their tuition. 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 To qualify, students must have applied for the state and federal aid grants available to them, lived in Oregon for at least one year, and maintained a grade point average of at least 2.5. They also must enroll in community college within six months of completing their high school degree or its equivalent. 
 
 The program could have wide-reaching effects in Oregon, since there are roughly 70,000 Oregonians between the ages of 18 and 24 who have a high school education but no opportunity for post-secondary schooling, according to testimony from state Senator Mark Hass. 
 
 
 
 
 He said that it costs $14,000 in social services and indirect costs to support each of these young people. 
 
 "Until they get an opportunity, they're likely to be going down a pathway to poverty," he said during a hearing in May. "What this bill does is shows them an opportunity to find a pathway to the middle class." 
 
 While the state will pick up the tab for what is not covered by grants, students are responsible for paying $50 each term. 
 
 Students have to keep up a 2.5 GPA at these community colleges or technical programs and must be enrolled at least half-time while they're receiving this assistance from the state. 
 
 The total budget allotted for this program is $10 million per fiscal year. If Oregon Governor Kate Brown signs the measure, it will go into effect for the 2016-2017 academic year. 
 
 The Governor's office did not have a comment on the bill, but said she has until August 17 to sign it. 
 
 Oregon is the second state to offer this kind of program. Tennessee passed a similar 
last year. In its program, called Tennessee Promise, students are required to cover the cost of text books, but otherwise, tuition is free for their first two years of community college. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obama announces free college plan
 
 
 
 
 In January, President Obama proposed a plan that would make the
 or trade school for "responsible" students who kept up their GPAs and made steady progress toward completing a degree. If passed, it would require both federal and state governments to split the tab. States would have the option to participate. 
 
 The proposal could help 9 million students and save full-time enrollees an average of $3,800 a year if every state participated, according to the White House. 
 
 
 
 
 CNNMoney (New York) 
 
July 8, 2015: 2:22 PM ET
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








































Mortgage & Savings






















Sponsored Lending News












Around The Web


















CNNMoney Sponsors


































































































 
 
 
 
 
 
 





















































					Content
				















































































					Tools
				









































































					Connect
				








































































Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. 
. Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.





© 2015 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved. 
 under which this service is provided to you. 
. 
.






























 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 