Obama wants community college to be free - Jan. 8, 2015   
Obama wants community college to be free - Jan. 8, 2015 
 
 
 








Our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy have changed.


By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the new 
 and 
.






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obama wants community college to be free
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
By Katie Lobosco 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obama announces free college plan
 
 
 
 
 


Free education "for those willing to work for it."
 
 That's what President Obama announced Friday in a bid to make the first two years of community college free for "responsible" students. 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 The president announced the proposal at Pellissippi State Community College in Knoxville, Tenn., a significant location. "America's College Promise" is modeled after a Tennessee program (called "Tennessee Promise"), which covers the cost of community college tuition not covered by grants and scholarships. It also requires the student to have a mentor, perform 8 hours of community service per term, and maintain a 2.0 GPA. 
 
 The president teased the proposal in a video announcement on 
 and 
 Thursday evening. 
 
 If passed, Obama's plan would require both federal and state governments to split the tab. States would have the option to participate. 
 
 "No one with drive and discipline should be denied a college education simply because they can't pay for it," Obama said Friday. "A college degree is the surest ticket to the middle class." 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Education gap 'terrible for our democracy'
 
 
 
 
 Obama's would also require congressional legislation, which is expected to be difficult now that Republicans control both the House and Senate. 
 
 If every state participated, the proposal could help 9 million students and save full-time enrollees an average of $3,800 a year, according to the White House. 
 
 
Sara O'Brien contributed to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
Have you participated in the Tennessee program that President Obama is using as a model for his proposal? If so, we'd like to hear about your experience. Email CNNMoney staff reporter 
.
 
 
 
 CNNMoney (New York) 
 
January 8, 2015: 7:38 PM ET
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








































Mortgage & Savings






















Sponsored Lending News












Around The Web


















CNNMoney Sponsors


































































































 
 
 
 
 
 
 





















































					Content
				















































































					Tools
				









































































					Connect
				








































































Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. 
. Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.





© 2015 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved. 
 under which this service is provided to you. 
. 
.






























 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 