 Obama’s free community college tuition plan: Four questions - The Washington Post  
 Obama’s free community college tuition plan: Four questions - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google Plus
Share via Email
More Options
 
Share on Whatsapp
Share on Pinterest
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Pinterest
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Book mark article
 
Read later list
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saved to Reading List
 
 Saved
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Too busy to read this now?
 
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
 
 
 
 
 
Sign in to your account to save this article.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obama’s free community college tuition plan: Four questions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
Print Article
Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
President Obama discussed a proposal to provide two years of tuition-free community college to "everybody who’s willing to work for it" on Friday in Tennessee. (WhiteHouse.gov)
 
 
 
 
By 
 
January 9
 
 
 
 
 
 
President Obama’s 
 could be “a game-changer,” some education leaders say, if it entices students who hadn’t thought seriously about going to college to reverse course and pursue a degree. 
 
For decades, the federal government has helped students get money for college through Pell Grants and student loans. That has become a cornerstone of college access. Now Obama is urging an unprecedented focus on two-year public colleges with open admissions policies that are already a low-priced gateway to higher education for millions of Americans.
 
“Put simply, what I’d like to do is to see the first two years of community college free for everybody who’s willing to work for it,” Obama says in a video the White House released Thursday. “That’s right. Free for everybody who’s willing to work for it.”
 
But the plan, which the president outlined Friday at a community college in Knoxville, Tenn., faces numerous hurdles in Congress, statehouses and even, conceivably, within the higher education community. Here are four big questions.
 
 
1) Will Congress approve funding?
 On Thursday, White House officials declined to answer repeated questions about how much the federal government would have to spend to fulfill the promise of free tuition for qualified students. Then on Friday afternoon, White House spokesman Eric Schultz told reporters the plan would cost the federal government roughly $60 billion over 10 years.
 
 
 
President Obama delivers remarks at Prince George's Community College in Largo, Md., in September 2013. (Marvin Joseph/The Washington Post)
 
 
 The White House says that the federal government would foot three quarters of the bill and participating states the rest.
 
The White House also says the plan’s benefits would be the “first dollars” provided as students assemble the resources they need to pay for college. That means other financial aid would 
augment
 the plan, helping students pay for books, fees, housing and other expenses.
 
With Republicans now in charge of both houses of Congress, any new federal program of this magnitude faces a steep path to enactment. “Unless the president has a responsible plan to meet our existing commitments, he shouldn’t be making new promises the American people can’t afford,” said Rep. John Kline (R-Minn.), chairman of the House Education and the Workforce Committee.
 
 
2) Will states push back?
 Obama says his plan is modeled in part on a program in Tennessee enacted under Gov. Bill Haslam (R). The Tennessee Promise, as it is called, is just getting underway. The first beneficiaries of the state’s tuition-free guarantee will enroll in community college in the next school year. There has been big interest among high school seniors, and the state expects thousands to participate. 
 
But the Tennessee program is a “last-dollar” initiative. That means the state provides qualified students the difference between the community college tuition and whatever other grants and scholarships students obtain. It is, as a result, far less expensive than what Obama proposes. And it does not help cover fees, books, housing, transportation and other expenses.
 
The federal government, in return for its investment, would ask states to share about a quarter of the cost of Obama’s plan.
 
Obama, according to a White House fact sheet, also wants states to “commit to continue existing investments in higher education; coordinate high schools, community colleges, and four-year institutions to reduce the need for remediation and repeated courses; and allocate a significant portion of funding based on performance, not enrollment alone.” 
 
In other words, there would be some federal conditions if states participate. Whether states would go along with all this is an open question. 
 
 
3) Will higher ed embrace this?
 Molly Corbett Broad, president of the American Council on Education, which represents college presidents, called Obama’s plan “an extremely bold proposal, a potential game-changer that could encourage millions more students to consider, apply and enroll in postsecondary education.”
 
She added: “There is still much we do not know about the details of this ambitious plan, such as institutional eligibility criteria and the requirements that would be imposed on states that want to participate. But we look forward to working with the Obama administration and Congress to find the best and most effective ways to dramatically boost higher education access and completion rates, especially among low- and lower-middle-income students.”
 
Community college advocates were thrilled with the announcement because the sector often does not get the attention it merits, considering that public two-year colleges serve nearly 40 percent of all undergraduates. 
 
But many colleges and universities are not directly targeted through this plan.
 
Andrew P. Kelly, a higher education analyst at the American Enterprise Institute, wrote in Forbes that an exclusive focus on public colleges “could crowd out promising innovations from the private sector.”
 
The for-profit sector, which operates many two-year colleges and has strong allies on Capitol Hill, would not be covered under the plan, administration officials said. Four-year colleges, public and private, get little mention in the president’s plan even though some institutions now offer both associate’s and bachelor’s degrees, as well as one- and two-year certificates.
 
Viewed from another angle, four-year colleges would reap significant indirect benefits from a stronger community college system. The two-year colleges are a huge pipeline for transfer students seeking bachelor’s degrees.
 
 Administration officials said as well that their plan would give states some flexibility to steer additional funding to four-year schools in certain circumstances. 
 
Still, the question is whether higher ed as a whole will get behind a plan that targets primarily one sector, albeit a crucial one. For many higher ed leaders, the perennial and preferred vehicle for expanding student access is clear: The federal Pell Grant. Obama in past years has expanded funding for the Pell Grant significantly. But now he is seeking to do something else.
 
 
4) How will the public react?
 Obama is asking the country to think about education in a new way — to make two years of college “as free and universal as high school,” in the words of the White House. That potentially has a powerful appeal. 
 
“This type of proposal tells a kid in loud and clear terms you won’t be shut out of college because of tuition,” said Michael Dannenberg of Education Reform Now, a Democratic-leaning think tank.
 
But the idea is not new. In 1996, President Bill Clinton promoted tax credits with the goal of making at least two years of college, according to his administration, “the standard for all Americans.” 
 
Community colleges, with very low tuition compared to four-year schools, have long been known as the most affordable higher education option. Their enrollment surged after the 2008-09 financial crisis as Americans sought to improve their career prospects in a dismal economic situation. That surge raised questions about whether the colleges had enough capacity — an issue the Obama plan may rekindle.
 
But in recent years, community college enrollment has declined. The National Student Clearinghouse, a nonprofit organization, reported in December that there were about 6.1 million students enrolled in public two-year colleges, a drop of 3.5 percent compared to 2013. There had been similar drops in each of the previous two years. Obama officials hope their plan will turn that trend around. 
 
 
 
 
Nick Anderson covers higher education for The Washington Post. He has been a writer and editor at The Post since 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
education
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
 | 
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Joyful, Illiterate Kindergartners of Finland
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Watch Ryan Adams Perform Taylor Swift Covers on The Daily Show
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That asteroid might have needed help wiping out the dinosaurs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amazon Will Stop Selling Google and Apple Streaming Devices at the End of the Month
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
'The Walk' really wants you to know how impressive it is
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solar Panels Are About To Get Way, Way Better
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I'm a librarian who banned a book. Here's why.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 things Planned Parenthood's president admitted under oath
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ted Cruz is toast: It's not just that he won't be president -- his days in the Senate are numbered, too
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DARPA is testing implanting chips in soldiers' brains
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to Protect Yourself From Peeple, the ‘Yelp for People' App
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Is it safe to cook with hot tap water?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Election 2016 Is 'Feeling The Bern'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five Things We Learned from the Ravens 23-20 win over the Pittsburgh Steelers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paige: Memories of Mom keep me company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gunman in Oregon college shooting identified
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SSI UK steelworks in Redcar goes into liquidation as UK government refuses bailout
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
education
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More news about education
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
education
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
 and 
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 