Ed on Campus - Ed2010 

Ed on Campus - Ed2010






















Next Stop: Your Magazine Dream Job






 
















Main
















 








 






















Next Stop: Your Magazine Dream Job
 


You are here:
 
 
>
 
Ed on Campus




Ed on Campus
 




Welcome to Ed on Campus!


Ed knows what it’s like to want to get into magazines when you live nowhere near an actual magazine office. When he was in college he started a special club in his journalism school (um, back when there were journalism schools) to bring together other students who had the magazine bug. Now he’s continuing the tradition with Ed on Campus—a network of Ed2010 chapters at colleges and universities across the U.S. and Canada. It’s a great way to meet others who are going into magazines and content-based websites and learn how to break into the industry. Ed on Campus chapters host panels and lectures with professional editors, provide virtual resume critiques, organize NYC trips to tour magazine offices, and more. Look below to see if your school has a chapter—and if not, consider starting one yourself (scroll down for the deets). It’s a great way to get in good with Ed!




List of Campus Chapters


 




















 
 
















**New chapters are added to this list at the end of each semester.**




Our Buddy System is the best—click 
 to learn more.




Earn $1200! Apply for Ed’s Trust Fund!


Don’t have a trust fund? Ed’ll give you the cash! (Who’s your daddy 
now
?) Ed knows what it’s like to be an unpaid intern—eating ramen noodles every day, temping for cash, scrounging just about anything from the giveaway tables at work just because it’s “free.”


To help you out, Ed’s gonna give awesome unpaid mag interns $1,200 to use for living, travel and whatever other expenses. Assuming Ed can raise the dough, Trust Funds will be given out three times a year: Spring, Summer, and Fall.


Fall term: Application must be submitted by 11:59 p.m. on November 15

Spring term: Application must be submitted by 11:59 p.m. on February 15

Summer term: Application must be submitted by 11:59 p.m. by May 30




Make sure you’ve read the 
and 




Start Your School’s Chapter


Dying for some Ed love at your school? Well, our chapters don’t spring up without the gumption of Edsters like yourself. Ed is happy to spread the love around but needs your help. Send 
 a note if you’re interested in finding out how to bring an Ed on Campus chapter to your school.




 
 
 
For past Ed on Campus posts click 
. 
 
 Ed’s blog: 
.


Need A Resume Makeover?


Ed sees hundreds of resumes each year and sadly, most are very, very bad. 
Want yours to be one of the best?
 Ed charges $50. Just 
 and he’ll hook you up.






















































































































 
Find all Ed's job postings 
. 

Post a job 
.


 
 
 
 








Search






 








 










Widget Scheduler 2 (delete title before posting and unhide x2)
 


 






Shop Ed!
 
Want to sport some sexy Ed gear? Give a great gift to a friend or colleague? Visit 
!
























 










   | 
 




 



























































