On Campus Student Insider - Ed2010 

On Campus Student Insider - Ed2010






















Next Stop: Your Magazine Dream Job






 
















Main
















 








 






















Next Stop: Your Magazine Dream Job
 


You are here:
 
 
>
 
On Campus Student Insider




On Campus Student Insider
 


By
 
 
on
 
September 30, 2015
 
in
 
 










Paid Internship


Publication Type:
 Content Website


Publication Name:
 www.us.asos.com


Location:
 


Job Description:
 
The Story so far…


ASOS are the UK’s number one fashion and beauty destination. With 75,000 product lines across Womenswear, Menswear, Footwear, Accessories, Jewellery and Beauty, we’re setting the pace in a worldwide fashion revolution. With around 2,500 new product lines being introduced each week, we’re ambitious and we certainly know our stuff. We ship to 237 countries and also have specific sites targeting the USA, France, Germany, Italy, Australia, Russia and China, with offices in London, Sydney, New York, France and Germany and China.


Our ambition is to be the world’s no.1 online fashion brand for 20-somethings, therefore it is really important to us that we continue to attract top talent across the globe to help us realise our goals. If you’re looking for an opportunity to go places and really take your career forward, we could be the perfect fit for you!


This role is a great opportunity to actively drive our growth in our International markets by developing campaigns in conjunction with in-country teams that develop brand awareness, build advocacy and build brand perception and engagement of ASOS. It’s a new role, that is now required to ensure consistency and add expertise to our newly formed in country teams.


 


The ASOS Way


We do things a certain way – The ASOS Way.  It’s our DNA and runs through every single thing we do here in the ASOS Group – it defines who we are, what we do and how we do it. Some things change, these don’t.


We are Passionate; we are proud to be a part of ASOS, we always give our best and we celebrate our successes.


We are Customer Obsessed; we know our customers love fashion and we understand what they want, we know our stuff inside and out, we put our customers at the heart of everything we do.


We Restlessly Innovate; we don’t stand still, we give it a go and we’re brave.


We are Collaborative and Respectful; We work together to get the job done, we grow ideas from within, we make things happen and we do the right thing.


People are the future of our business and we have really big ideas. We know we need people who can turn these ideas into reality – it’s our people that make the difference.

The Role:


We believe fashion makes people feel great.  We want to bring this feeling to our student customers, helping them to look, feel, and be their best at college. We already offer students 10% discount all year round, but as a Student Insider, you have a unique opportunity to engage with ASOS student customers and inspire them through authentic and useful content.


You will be one of 3 Student Insiders in the US, responsible for capturing, creating and curating fashion and lifestyle-based content that reflects what’s hot in an American college student’s life.  The content you create will appear on the ASOS US social channels, the ASOS website, our media partner’s channels, and your own social channels.  You will receive training, guidance and support from the professional creative, editorial, social and marketing teams here at ASOS, as well as regular coordination and support from the ASOS Trade Marketing Manager (US) to help not only grow your following, but take your personal blogging/vlogging/photography skills to the next level.


You will be confident and obsessed with social media, with a passion for fashion, travel, music, and developing a kickass career.  You will bring your enthusiasm to the role, along with a desire to share your creative point of view, whether this is styling, blogging, Instagramming, tweeting or videography.  This is an incredible opportunity to showcase your abilities and create content that will engage ASOS student customers across the US.


 


Responsibilities include but are not limited to:


Create compelling written, video, and/or photographic content for the ASOS US social channels, the ASOS website, and our media partner’s channels, within the 4 key student content pillars – fashion, travel, music and careers

Grow your personal social profile and share ASOS content on your personal account/s in an authentic and credible way

Use your personal social profile to create awareness of the content you produce for ASOS, ASOS student shopping promos, and ASOS fashion & retail collections

Work to set timelines and KPIs set by the Trade Marketing Manager

Take part in all ASOS Student Insider training and workshop sessions

What success looks like:


Building and connecting with an engaged community of fashion-loving students in the US

Generate a large social following through sharing compelling content

Consistently meet deadlines, targets and goals set by ASOS

Work collaboratively with the other Student Insiders and wider ASOS team members

Adapt to change as ASOS On Campus grows and develops, taking on feedback and new ideas in a positive mannger

Self-motivated with strong time management skills

Skills and experience you’ll need:


Previous experience writing articles, interviewing, taking amazing photos, or shooting and editing videos.Please note that we are still interested in hearing from applicants who have experience in just 1 or 2 of these skillsets – you don’t have to have them all but we’d be delighted if you did!

Established social media presence and following

A keen eye for spotting the latest style and culture trends among your friends

Previous work, work experience, study or internships in the marketing, fashion or media/publishing industry

Fantastic verbal and written communication skills

Ability to work independently and adhere to deadlines

Mandatories:


Applicants will need to be:


Enrolled as a student at a college within the US

An American citizen, or have rights to work in the US

A sophomore or higher

Not employed by a direct ASOS competitor

How to apply


Please send your CV along with a cover letter to StudentsUS@asos.com, including:


The reasons you would be the perfect candidate for this role

Your social account usernames and followings

A link to previously published work, either in professional or your own personal channels

￼


**note: applications without a cover letter addressing all three points will not be considered**￼￼


We really love hearing from you but before applying please ask yourself the following…


Is this role a good match for the direction I’d like to take my career in? We want to really know why you have chosen this career.

Do I have all the skills and experience required for this role? Be realistic. We will only consider applications that demonstrate relevant skills or the potential to match the role requirements.

Spell Check. As simple as it sounds make sure your application is to the highest standard. You will be surprised at how many people apply with spelling mistakes on them.




Job Benefits:
 Building and connecting with an engaged community of fashion-loving students in the USGenerate a large social following through sharing compelling contentConsistently meet deadlines, targets and goals set by ASOSWork collaboratively with the other Student Insiders and wider ASOS team membersAdapt to change as ASOS On Campus grows and develops, taking on feedback and new ideas in a positive manngerSelf-motivated with strong time management skills


Hourly Rate:
: 10/hour


Job Application Contact Name:
 ASOS.COM


Job Application Contact Email:
 


Date Submitted:
 2015-09-30












To apply for this job 
email your details to
 



	Apply using webmail: 
	
 / 
	
	
 / 
	
	
 / 
	
	


 




SHARE!


 














Comments are closed.












































































































 
Find all Ed's job postings 
. 

Post a job 
.


 
 
 
 








Search






 








 










Widget Scheduler 2 (delete title before posting and unhide x2)
 


 






Shop Ed!
 
Want to sport some sexy Ed gear? Give a great gift to a friend or colleague? Visit 
!
























 










   | 
 




 





























































