Oregon shooting: 10 dead at Umpqua Community College | Q13 FOX News  


Oregon shooting: 10 dead at Umpqua Community College | Q13 FOX News














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































57°






Low 
52°


High 
64°












Sat





					52° 
 68°
					






Sun





					52° 
 74°
					






Mon





					53° 
 75°
					
















 








 




























 








Oregon shooting: 10 dead at Umpqua Community College




Posted 1:22 PM, October 1, 2015, by 
, 
, 
 and 
, 
Updated at 10:32pm, October 1, 2015
 




 
















Photo Gallery














































 








ROSEBURG, Ore. — Ten people were killed when a gunman opened fire at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College on Thursday, forcing the nation to face yet another mass shooting.


Seven other people were injured, and the shooter is dead, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin told reporters. Earlier estimates had put the number of people hurt much higher.


Multiple law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation identified the gunman as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer. Investigators have interviewed members of his family and friends, they said.


“I will not name the shooter,” Hanlin said. “I will not give him the credit he probably sought.”


Authorities credited a quick response by law enforcement for keeping the death toll from climbing higher.


A law enforcement official said shooter Chris Harper Mercer had body armor with him and was heavily armed, with a large amount of ammunition — enough for a prolonged gunfight.


Hanlin said tactical teams and bomb squads had cleared the buildings on campus and were working to clear hundreds of vehicles parked on campus.






Tactical teams/bomb technicians have cleared all campus buildings; officers working to clear hundreds of campus-parked vehicles 


— Douglas Co Sheriff (@DouglasCoSO) 




Huddled together


Cassandra Welding is a student at the Roseburg campus and was in class when the shooting started.


“I heard a popping noise, almost like a balloon popping,” she told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer. “I knew something wasn’t right and so I get down.”


She said all of the students in her classroom dropped to the ground. They huddled together behind backpacks and chairs, underneath tables.


“We locked the doors, turned off the lights, and we were all pretty much in panic mode,” Welding said.


“We called 911 and called our parents, our loved ones … We didn’t know what was going to happen, if those were our last words or not.”


The shooting


The shooting appears to have started in one building before the gunman moved to the school’s science building, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN. Those killed and wounded were found in at least two classrooms.


“We arrived to find multiple patients in multiple classrooms. Law enforcement was on scene and had the shooter neutralized,” said Douglas County Fire Marshal Ray Shoufler.


He told CNN that two patients died while being transported to a hospital.


Mercy Medical Center posted on Facebook that it had received 10 patients. The extent of their injuries was not known.


Three female victims were at PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend in Springfield, according to a hospital spokeswoman.


The gunman who opened fire at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College targeted Christians specifically, according to the father of a wounded student.


Before going into spinal surgery, Anastasia Boylan told her father and brother the gunman entered her classroom firing. The professor in the classroom was shot point blank. Others were hit, she told her family.


Everyone in the classroom dropped to the ground.


The gunman, while reloading his handgun, ordered the students to stand up if they were Christians, Boylan told her family.


“And they would stand up and he said, ‘Good, because you’re a Christian, you’re going to see God in just about one second,'” Boylan’s father, Stacy, told CNN, relaying her account.


“And then he shot and killed them.”


A law enforcement official told CNN three pistols and one rifle believed to have belonged to the suspect were recovered at the scene.


ATF agents were also on scene and canine teams were en route to search for explosives, fire arms casings and ammunition, a spokesman said. FBI agents were en route.




, one student, 18-year-old Kortney Moore, watcher her teacher get shot in the head. The shooter came in the classroom and told people to get on the ground. The shooter then allegedly asked people to stand up and state their religion and then started firing away.


Moore survived, the News Review reported, by lying with people who had been shot.


Investigators are examining social media postings made by a man, thought to be in his late 20s, who they believe is the suspect, said a source with knowledge of the investigation. The night before the attack, the alleged shooter appears to have had a conversation with others online about his intentions, the source said.


ATF agents were also on scene and canine teams are en route to search for explosives, fire arms casings and ammunition, a spokesman said. The FBI was en route.


According to NR Today, some students described the scene as 
 One student told a Tribune Media affiliate that she was in the library when other students came running in shouting they need to call 911. She said some in the library ran out of the building, while others locked themselves in a nearby classroom.


“I think it’s crazy and I have no idea how to handle it,” the student says. “I’m so blessed that I’m OK and wasn’t there at the wrong time.”


 










Please enable Javascript to watch this video








The community


Roseburg is a city of about 22,000 people about 70 miles south of Eugene, Oregon, and some 180 miles south of Portland.


The school itself is up on a hill outside the city center, according to Rick Francona, a CNN military analyst who lives nearby. Francona said that logging is a big industry in the region, which is fairly rural but easily accessible from Interstate 5.


"This is so out of character for this whole area," he said.


Hundreds of residents gathered at a Roseburg, Oregon, park for a vigil for the victims of a deadly mass shooting.


The crowd gathered around 8 p.m. at Stewart Park in the city about 180 miles south of Portland. Many people held up candles as the hymn "Amazing Grace" was played.


 










Please enable Javascript to watch this video










Photo Gallery




















 






News of the shooting quickly reached Washington, with the state's senior senator, Ron Wyden, visibly shaken and Sen. Jeff Merkley tweeting that he was praying for the victims and their families.






Oregonians everywhere want Roseburg to know we're praying for them.


— Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) 








Horrific news from Umpqua Community College in Roseburg. My heart and prayers are with the victims and their families.


— Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) 




U.S. President Barack Obama was briefed on the situation and will continue to receive updates throughout the day.


He pushed for a change in gun laws when he spoke to reporters about the shooting Thursday.


"Our thoughts and prayers are not enough. It's not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel, and it does nothing to prevent this carnage from being inflicted someplace else in America -- next week, or a couple months from now," he said.


The school


A picturesque campus in the North Umpqua River Valley, Umpqua Community College prides itself on a "a peaceful, safe atmosphere, and year-round recreational activities," according to its website.


It's not a traditional institution of higher learning, as the average age of its 13,600 students was 38 during the 2013-2014 school year. Only 740 of those were full time, 2,437 were part time and more than 10,000 fell under the umbrella of "community education."


It first began teaching classes out of rented facilities in 1961. Elton and Ruth Jackson donated 98.5 acres to house the campus in 1965.


The school will be closed until Monday as a result of the shooting.


The interim leader of Umpqua Community College called Thursday "the saddest day in the history of the college."




43.291178


-123.334899




















Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Weather Team
Watch the Q13 FOX News weather team for the most useful and accurate forecasts and get weather ready.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 
























































 






















 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts










































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































