Chattanooga shooting: 4 Marines killed, dead suspect identified | Q13 FOX News  


Chattanooga shooting: 4 Marines killed, dead suspect identified | Q13 FOX News














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































57°






Low 
52°


High 
64°












Sat





					52° 
 68°
					






Sun





					52° 
 74°
					






Mon





					53° 
 75°
					
















 








 




























 








Chattanooga shooting: 4 Marines killed, dead suspect identified




Posted 12:25 PM, July 16, 2015, by 
, 
Updated at 02:22pm, July 16, 2015
 




 














Mohammod Youssuf Abdulazeez, 24, was the gunman in Thursday’s shootings in Chattanooga, Tennessee, an FBI spokesperson said. “While it would be premature to speculate on the motives of the shooter at this time, we will conduct a thorough investigation of this tragedy and provide updates as they are available,” the FBI said.




Four Marines were killed when a gunman attacked two military sites in Chattanooga, Tennessee, on Thursday, the U.S. Navy said.


The suspected shooter is also dead, Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke said.


Investigators “have not determined whether it was an act of terrorism or whether it was a criminal act,” Ed Reinhold, FBI special agent in charge, told reporters. “We are looking at every possible avenue, whether it was terrorism — whether it was domestic, international — or whether it was a simple, criminal act.”


U.S. Attorney Bill Killian earlier told reporters that authorities were treating the shooting as an “act of domestic terrorism.”


The shootings unfolded at two sites over 30 minutes, Reinhold said.


The suspected gunman started spraying bullets at the glass doors of a strip mall military recruiting center around 10:45 a.m. ET, witnesses said.


From there, he headed to another location more than seven miles away, an operational support center operated by the U.S. Navy.


That’s where the four victims and the gunman were killed, Reinhold said.


At least three people were injured, officials said, including a police officer and a military service member.


The officer, who was injured when he was shot in the ankle, has been treated at the hospital, Berke said. A military service member was also among the wounded, the Defense Department said.


‘It was very loud and very fast’


“Today was a nightmare for the city of Chattanooga. … We had someone viciously attack, at two different locations, people who proudly serve our country,” Berke said.


Gina Mule, a server at a restaurant, said she saw a man who’d been in a silver convertible Mustang, firing a “high-powered rifle” at the recruiting offices at about 10:50 a.m.


She said she first heard “Pow, pow, pow!” She then went to a window, through which she said she saw the man firing shots.


“I don’t know how many shots he fired, but it was a lot,” she said.


A second witness, April Grimmett, said she was working at a hair salon near the recruiting center when she looked out a window and saw a man ducking in between cars.


“Shortly after that, we heard the (shots). It was very loud and very fast,” Grimmett said, without saying what happened to the man she had seen.


A photo that she took shows glass doors damaged by the gunfire.


“I could not believe how many bullet holes were in that door. It was insane,” she said.


Fred Wright, a salesman at a nearby auto parts store, told CNN that after he heard gunshots, three people ran into the shop, hollering they thought “someone was shooting at them.”


Wright said he called 911.


“Sounded like it was 30, 40 shots to me,” Wright said, adding that he never saw a shooter.








Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel


















Leave a Reply 










Enter your comment here...










Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:








































 






Email 
(required)
 
(Address never made public)








Name 
(required)








Website






























 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Twitter account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Facebook account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Google+ account. 
( 
 / 
 )












Connecting to %s










 
Notify me of new comments via email.
 
Notify me of new posts via email.


 








 







			2 comments		










 




Kit




Another Islamic nut case. Why?
























 




Jefferysschanz




…my roomate’s step-mother makes $86 /hr on the internet >>… She has been without a job for 9 months but last month her check was $12946 just working on the internet for a few hours. site here>>>>>
































 










AM News
Breaking news and information right when you can use it. 
Bill, Liz, Kaci and M.J. are Seattle’s morning news team weekdays 4:30a – 10a.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts






















































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































