Office of Postsecondary Education - Information for Students  


Office of Postsecondary Education - Information for Students




































U.S. Department of Education


















Search for:




































Toggle navigation




























































PREPARE FOR MY FUTURE












Office of Postsecondary Education - Information for Students 






 || 
 || 


Most student assistance from the U.S. Department of Education is in the form of grants, loans, and work-study to help pay the cost of attending a postsecondary institution. The Department's 
 has information on these student financial assistance programs. 


Office of Postsecondary Education Programs for Undergraduates






 provides short-term study and travel seminars abroad for U.S. educators in the social sciences and humanities for the purpose of improving their understanding and knowledge of the peoples and cultures of other countries.


 provides 3-year grants to universities who then award fellowships to students for the study of modern foreign languages and area or international studies. Students should contact funded institutions for application information. 
 


 provides 3-year grants to U.S. institutions and organizations  to conduct overseas intensive language programs. Students should contact funded  projects directly for information and an application to participate.  


 provides a single grant to assist a consortium of colleges and universities to establish an institute designed to increase the representation of minorities in international service. To apply, students should contact the grantee. 
 




Office of Postsecondary Education  Programs for Graduate Students




 provides graduate fellowships in the arts, humanities, and social science. Students apply directly to the U.S. Department of Education. Note: This is the 
only
 OPE program through which students apply directly to the Department of Education. 


 provides 3-year grants to universities who then award fellowships to students for the study of modern foreign languages and area or international studies. Students should contact funded institutions for application information. 
 


 provides fellowships for students in  modern foreign languages and area studies programs to conduct research overseas.  Students must apply through U.S. institutions of higher education. 
 


 provides 3-year grants to U.S. institutions and organizations  to conduct overseas intensive language programs. Students should contact funded  projects directly for information and an application to participate.  
 


 provides short-term study and travel seminars abroad for U.S. educators in the social sciences and humanities for the purpose of improving their understanding and knowledge of the peoples and cultures of other countries.


 
 provides grants to colleges and universities who, in turn, award fellowships to graduate students in areas of national need. These include: biology, computer information science, engineering, geological science, mathematics, and physics.
 
 




Additional Resources


 - The goal of accreditation is to ensure that education provided by institutions of higher education meets acceptable levels of quality. Here you will find lists of regional and national accrediting agencies recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as reliable authorities concerning the quality of education or training offered by the institutions of higher education or higher education programs they accredit.


 - This database lists approximately 6,900 postsecondary educational institutions and programs, each of which is accredited by an accrediting agency or state approval agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a "reliable authority as to the quality of postsecondary education" within the meaning of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA).


 - This page provides a complete list of programs administered by the U.S. Department of Education's 
.


: This site is will help consumers gain a better understanding of accreditation in the United States.  It is important for every smart postsecondary education consumer to be aware of the differences between accredited and unaccredited institutions and the pitfalls of enrolling in a "diploma mill."  The site is one tool available to consumers to help  avoid diploma mills and provides resources for parents and students for evaluating and selecting postsecondary institutions.


 includes information for those thinking about postsecondary education or training for a specific career, trade, or profession.



Protect Yourself from Identity Theft
:  
 is a Web site from the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Inspector General to help students and families protect themselves from the growing problem of identity theft.


College Cost and Other Information
: 
 from the 
 helps you find colleges based on location, programs, tuition, distance learning, evening courses, and more. Save your favorites and compare up to four colleges.


Tax Benefits for Higher Education
: Refer to the 
IRS
  Web site for 
. The site includes 
, Tax Benefits for Education.


State Aid Resources:
 For information on state programs for college students, refer to our lists of: 










International Educational Mobility
: 
, developed by the National Library of Education, provides information to help Americans                contemplating an educational experience abroad, including extensive links to foreign education systems. It also presents information about education in the United States, its structure and organization, from the primary through the postgraduate levels, including a wide array of links to useful sites in the U.S. education community. 


Additional Resources




























 






U.S. Department of Education

              Office of Postsecondary Education

              1990 K Street, N.W.

              Washington, DC 20006
























 


























 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 












 
 









  Last Modified: 08/12/2013





















How Do I Find...
























Information About...
























































































Our mission
 is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.




































































































 












 
 



































