Apple Education Pricing for iPad and Mac - Discounts for Students, Faculty, and Staff  - Apple 

Apple Education Pricing for iPad and Mac - Discounts for Students, Faculty, and Staff  - Apple








































 


 
 


 


















 
 






























































 
 




























 
 
 






 
 


 































			Save on a new Mac and iPad for your studies.
		





		Shop the Apple Store for Education, save up to 
$200
 on a new Mac, and up to 
$20
 on a new iPad. Education pricing is available to college students, students accepted to college, parents buying for college students, faculty, homeschool teachers, and staff at all grade levels.*
	

























				Mac
			





			Save up to 
$200
 on a new Mac for your studies.
		

















































				iPad
			





			Save up to 
$20
 on an iPad for college.
		












































Transform the way you study.












Apps. A classroom full of possibilities.




With Mac and iPad, you have access to powerful free apps – including Pages, Numbers, and Keynote – helping you write, analyze data, and present your work in engaging ways. Plus the App Store and the Mac App Store are packed with educational apps, content, and tools for every grade level and learning style.
















iBooks. A smarter way to stay well read.




iBooks is stacked with books and materials to help you learn almost any subject. You can discover classic novels, biographies, reference guides, and textbooks from major education publishers – many of them free. iBooks is available as a free download from the App Store on your iOS device, and it’s included with OS X Yosemite on your Mac.
















iTunes U. Full of bright ideas.




iTunes U is a destination within iTunes that’s filled with countless learning resources like lectures, videos, books, and more – all for free. Plus your teachers can build iTunes U courses and can give you everything from assignments and class materials, to study notes with the free app for iPad and iPhone. It’s never been easier to keep organized for class, and stay engaged.

























			Financing.
		





		Students pay monthly.  Spread the cost with low monthly payments, up to 48 months.
	

















			Free Shipping.
		





		On in-stock items ordered by 5pm.
	

















			Personal Setup.
		





		Buy Mac or iPad from the Apple Retail Store and we’ll help you set it up just the way you like.
	















	*Quantity limits apply. Visit 
 for full terms and conditions.



































Apple Education Pricing




















 
									Shop and Learn
							


+












































































 
									Apple Store
							


+












































































 
									For Education
							


+
























 
									For Business
							


+








































 
									Accounts
							


+






























 
									Apple Values
							


+




















































 
									About Apple
							


+


































































More ways to shop: 
visit an 
, 
call 1-800-MY-APPLE, or 
.















	    		Copyright © 2015 Apple Inc.  All rights reserved.
	    	





































