Why College Students Need a Class in Dating - The Atlantic 



Why College Students Need a Class in Dating - The Atlantic






























Why College Students Need a Class in Dating




















































































































Subscribe


Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price.












Follow






































story




























Why College Students Need a Class in Dating


As they polish their resumes and rack up extracurriculars, today's young people have forgotten how to love, some argue.















































	We noticed that you have an
    
AD BLOCKER


ENABLED







	    Please consider disabling it
	    for our site, or supporting our
	    work in one of these ways
	










Sign up for
The Atlantic Daily
 newsletter
	    












I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.




















































Jul 2, 2014














ASPEN, Colo.—Usually when a group of middle-aged people gather to kvetch about twenty-somethings, it's about how they're always texting, or they spend too much time on the social medias, or they're boomeranging back to their parents' homes because they're afraid to 
 look him straight in the eye, and ask for a job. 
But at the Aspen Ideas Festival Tuesday, a unique Millennial gripe was aired:
Kids these days, they just don't know how to fall in love.
Erika Christakis, a lecturer at the Yale Child Study Center, is a former co-master at one of the student residence halls at Harvard. She says that during her time there, students would repeatedly tell her that they didn't have time for relationships—a sentiment that was starkly different from her own college experience.
Duke University offers a series on "How to Be in Love." 
"That was such a different experience than my college experience," she told a crowd at the conference, which is organized jointly by 
The Atlantic
 and the Aspen Institute. "That was considered a rite of passage. It was considered part of being a newly adult person that you would try to get to know people in a more intimate way."
The panelists each threw out their theories for the decline of college dating:
Christakis thinks it's because college students these days are too focused on resume-building and career preparation. They're indoctrinated into the cult of extracurricular activities in middle and high school, and the involvement obsession continues throughout college almost as if by inertia. "It's 'I'm secretary of this' and 'I'm director of that,'" she said. "And even they admit that a lot of it is kind of bogus."
Rachel Greenwald, an author and dating coach, thinks it's because most college "relationships" now occur within the context of a brief sexual encounter, or "hookup," as the youth say. "Romance," she said, "has gone the way of cursive handwriting."


Dispatches from the Aspen Ideas Festival.
 

See more from 






 by the American Psychological Association found that between 60 and 80 percent of North American college students have had a hookup, even though 63 percent of college men and 83 percent of college women said they would prefer a traditional relationship.
"In gearing themselves up for sex, they're draining themselves emotionally," Greenwald said. "They are in training to ... discard, to ignore, to swallow their emotions so they can participate in the anxiety-provoking but common dynamic which is the hookup culture."
Lori Gottlieb, an 
Atlantic
 contributor, author, and psychologist, thinks it's because Millennials have been so coddled by their parents and teachers that they are now unable to accept others' opinions and realities. Which makes it hard when, in a relationship, your reality is that you will go to the farmer's market and make a healthy salad together, and your partner's reality is Starcraft.
Gottlieb also thinks college kids don't know how to interact face-to-face anymore. (Always with the texting.) She points out that one new Boston College class 
 to go out on dates—the coursework includes a discussion of "what words to say" when you'd like to ask someone out. 
Similarly, the University of Illinois now holds workshops 
 "College Dating: Uncovering the Dating Scene." Duke University 
 on "How to Be in Love." Students will learn "how to fall in love … 
including recognizing when this can be happening," as well as how to communicate effectively, how to recognize when said love is "toxic," and how to know when it's time to break up.
Sorely missing from this list: Intro to Back-rubs, Peaceable Joint IKEA Expedit Assembly, Advanced Topics in Netflix Negotiation.
"Romance has gone the way of cursive handwriting."
Christakis thinks the future might hold more courses like these, both for credit and not. Relationships make us happy, and they can be a part of what we need to feel successful. And in so far as universities are laboratories of successful adulthood, coursework about relationships "are 
entirely compatible with the academic mission of the university," she said.
Gottlieb said that the emphasis on college campuses these days seems to be on independence, or the idea that students shouldn't settle down too soon. But she said she also sees young-adult psychotherapy clients who feel lonely in spite of their career success. If college students were better-equipped to start and maintain relationships, her thinking goes, they would feel more fulfilled in adulthood.
Leaving the session, I ran into a group of three moms of college-aged kids who were vociferously debating the panelists' points. One reason why today's college kids seem so lost when it comes to some of the basic functions of adulthood, they seemed to agree, was that their parents (meaning themselves) had held their hands a little too firmly throughout childhood. For every problem there was a parent-teacher conference, for every closed door a string-pulling phone call. Today's privileged youth are never allowed to bruise, so how could we expect them to seek out the bruising of love?
I asked one of the women if she thinks college classes on dating are a good idea.
"No. We just had to learn it ourselves," she said. "This way, it's the adults leading everything again."















































































    The Sweet Briar phenomenon










        
            9:29 AM ET
        
        




































































































About the Author










 is a staff writer at 
The Atlantic
, where she covers health.

                
            
        


































Most Popular



            Presented by
            

    
















Kai Pfaffenbach / Reuters 










Forget the Common Core, Finland’s youngsters are in charge of determining what happens in the classroom.




“The changes to kindergarten make me sick,” a veteran teacher in Arkansas recently admitted to me. “Think about what you did in first grade—that’s what my 5-year-old babies are expected to do.”
 


The difference between first grade and kindergarten may not seem like much, b
ut what I remember about my first-grade experience in the mid-90s doesn’t match the kindergarten she described in her email: three and a half hours of daily literacy instruction, an hour and a half of daily math instruction, 20 minutes of daily “physical activity time” (officially banned from being called “recess”) and two 56-question standardized tests in literacy and math—on the fourth week of school.


That American friend—who teaches 20 students without an aide—has fought to integrate 30 minutes of “station time” into the literacy block, which includes  “blocks, science, magnetic letters, play dough with letter stamps to practice words, books, and storytelling.” But the most controversial area of her classroom isn’t the blocks nor the stamps:
 Rather, it’s the
 “house station with dolls and toy food”—items her district tried to remove last year. The implication was clear: There’s no time for play in kindergarten anymore.
 












Reed Saxon / AP










A new study finds that people today who eat and exercise the same amount as people 20 years ago are still fatter.




There’s a meme aimed at Millennial catharsis called “Old Economy Steve.” It’s a series of pictures of a late-70s teenager, who presumably is now a middle-aged man, that mocks some of the messages Millennials say they hear from older generations—and shows why they’re deeply janky. Old Economy Steve graduates and gets a job right away. Old Economy Steve “worked his way through college” because tuition was $400. And so forth.


We can now add another one to that list: Old Economy Steve ate at McDonald’s almost every day, and he still somehow had a 32-inch waist.




MemeGenerator.net


A 
 published recently in the journal 
Obesity Research & Clinical Practice 
found that it’s harder for adults today to maintain the same weight as those 20 to 30 years ago did, even at the same levels of food intake and exercise.












Vincenzo Pinto / Reuters 










Did Francis understand what he was doing when he met the Rowan County clerk? Let the debate begin.




Updated 9:30 a.m. EST


This week, 
 that Pope Francis met with Kim Davis, the clerk of Rowan County, Kentucky, who has refused to perform same-sex marriages. It immediately became one of the biggest stories about the pope’s trip to the United States: A pontiff who has strained to change the Church’s tone on issues from abortion to homosexuality met with one of the most divisive figures in American politics.


Conservatives chalked it up as a win. The Church’s more progressive prelates pushed back. Now, the Vatican is downplaying the get together. “
Pope Francis met with several dozen persons who had been invited by the Nunciature to greet him as he prepared to leave Washington for New York City,” wrote the Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi in a statement to reporters. “Such brief greetings occur on all papal visits and are due to the Pope’s characteristic kindness and availability.”












CW / Andrey Kuzmin / Shutterstock / Paul Spella / The Atlantic
Buffy










Scholarly interest in Joss Whedon’s cult classic points to the growing belief that TV shows deserve to be studied as literature.




When Joss Whedon’s classic show 
Buffy the Vampire Slayer
 went off the air in 2003, its cult status was still very much nascent. Cue the novels, comics, video games, and spinoffs, not to mention fan sites, fan fiction, conventions, and inclusion on scores of “Best TV Shows of All Time” lists. But while it remains good fun to watch a seemingly ditzy teenager and her friends fight the forces of darkness with super-strength, magic, and witty banter, the show’s seven seasons have also become the subject of critical inquiry from a more intellectually rigorous fanbase: academics.




Buffy
, along with critically acclaimed series like 
The X-Files
 and 
Twin Peaks
, came before 
The Sopranos
 and the beginning of the Golden Age of Television, but helped pave the way for scholars to treat television shows like 
The Wire
, 
Mad Men
, and 
Breaking Bad
 as sprawling works of art to be dissected and analyzed alongside the greatest works of literature. Academics have found Whedon’s cult classic to be particularly multi-dimensional—trading heavily on allegory, myth, and cultural references—while combining an inventive narrative structure with dynamic characters and social commentary.












PathDoc / Shutterstock










For many new physicians, residency brings f
atigue, emotional stress, and self-doubt, affecting their ability to take care of themselves and their patients. Is there a way to fix it?




One night in July—the night before her first day of work—a new doctor picked at a container of sushi in her apartment on a sleepy street in Brooklyn. She tried to swallow a few bites as she chatted on the phone with her best friend from medical school, who was also marking the eve of his first day as a working physician. “Break a leg,” she said. “But not really.”


There wasn’t any street noise to keep her up as she tried to go to sleep early for her 5:00 a.m. start—but even in the silence, heavy with midsummer humidity, she couldn’t drift off. For two months, since she’d graduated medical school, her body had registered her mounting stress leading up to her first day in the hospital. She was plagued by insomnia. Food made her nauseated, except plain donuts, which she ordered twice a day from the diner at the end of her block. She’d eat them while studying diagnoses and procedures that she’d learned in school and long since forgotten, crumbs piling up in the crease of her textbook. In the months between graduating and starting work, she lost more than 15 pounds.












Reuters










Nothing in the Russian president’s UN speech suggested he was about to bomb Syria or withdraw from Ukraine. But that’s what he did.






The thing about Vladimir Putin is, it really doesn’t matter what he says.


When the Russian president took to the tribune at the UN General Assembly earlier this week, he did so amid rampant expectations that he would say something extraordinary—something capable of either ending his standoff with the West, or else sending it to new heights. In the end, he did neither. He said what he’s said countless times before: that the West is full of itself and hypocritical, that the world needs no policeman, and that Russia will do what it pleases.


Nothing in what he 
 suggested that he was 
 Syria, or that he was 
 his guns back from the frontlines in eastern Ukraine. But that’s what he did. Two days later. Both on the same day. For good measure, he confiscated another year of his citizens’ pension savings, too, but we’ll get to that later.












cyclonebill / Flickr










To lose weight, just eat small amounts, says a comprehensive new review. And get rid of your flying-saucer dishware.




One of the things that always surprised me when I was studying in Belgium was that everyone looked like they had stepped out of an Urban Outfitters catalogue, 
despite consuming nothing but mayonnaise-covered french fries and strong wheat beer.


Everywhere I went—the Metro, the 
—I saw fawn-like humans. Fawns who smoked 
a lot
 of cigarettes, but fawns nonetheless. 


In search of Their Secret, one day I watched lunch being prepared by my host sister, who wore size 32 jeans. (In America, it is, how you say, 
le deux
?) She plucked a can of ravioli from the cabinet, plopped a few spoonfuls of it into the kind of bowl one might use to feed a dwarf kitten, and put the rest in the fridge. 


The sight was more incredible than the 
 itself. “
She’s actually using the suggested serving size,”
 I thought. The Belgians were indeed having it all, I learned—it's just that they were having half of it.












Andrew B. Myers / The Atlantic




 and 






In the name of emotional well-being, college students are increasingly demanding protection from words and ideas they don’t like. Here’s why that’s disastrous for education—and mental health. 




S
omething strange is 
happening at America’s colleges and universities. A movement is arising, undirected and driven largely by students, to scrub campuses clean of words, ideas, and subjects that might cause discomfort or give offense. Last December, Jeannie Suk wrote in an online article for 
The New Yorker
 about law students asking her fellow professors at Harvard not to teach rape law—or, in one case, even use the word 
violate
 (as in “that violates the law”) lest it cause students distress. In February, Laura Kipnis, a professor at Northwestern University, wrote an essay in 
The Chronicle of Higher Education 
describing a new campus politics of sexual paranoia—and was then subjected to a long investigation after students who were offended by the article and by a tweet she’d sent filed Title IX complaints against her. In June, a professor protecting himself with a pseudonym wrote an essay for Vox describing how gingerly he now has to teach. “I’m a Liberal Professor, and My Liberal Students Terrify Me,” the headline said. A number of popular comedians, including Chris Rock, have stopped performing on college campuses (see Caitlin Flanagan’s 
 in this month’s issue). Jerry Seinfeld and Bill Maher have publicly condemned the oversensitivity of college students, saying too many of them can’t take a joke.












Greg Kahn










American politicians are now eager to disown a failed criminal-justice system that’s left the U.S. with the largest incarcerated population in the world. But they've failed to reckon with history. Fifty years after Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s report “The Negro Family” tragically helped create this system, it's time to reclaim his original intent.
 




By his own lights, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, ambassador, senator, sociologist, and itinerant American intellectual, was 
. He was born in 1927 in Tulsa, Oklahoma, but raised mostly in New York City. When Moynihan was 10 years old, his father, John, left the family, plunging it into poverty. Moynihan’s mother, Margaret, remarried, had another child, divorced, moved to Indiana to stay with relatives, then returned to New York, where she worked as a nurse. Moynihan’s childhood—a tangle of poverty, remarriage, relocation, and single motherhood—contrasted starkly with the idyllic American family life he would later extol.












Maxim Shemetov / Reuters










For some women, the psychological toll of childbirth leads to a form of PTSD—distinct from postpartum depression—that follows them into new motherhood.




Whenever Sarah sees a Facebook post of a smiling friend holding a newborn baby, she breaks down.


It’s not that she dislikes her friends. It’s also not that she envies their motherhood; Sarah has her own healthy baby girl. But she doesn’t have her own postcard-perfect photo like that, capturing the first moments of a new family’s joy. What she has instead are memories that continue to haunt her.


Sarah, a 28-year old mother from Nebraska, suffers from postpartum post-traumatic stress disorder. 
Many people, including doctors, confuse postpartum PTSD with postpartum depression, even though the two disorders are quite different: Mothers with postpartum depression generally don’t suffer from the intrusive memories and flashbacks that plague PTSD sufferers. Instead, they most commonly deal with things like sadness, trouble concentrating, difficulty finding joy in activities they once enjoyed, and difficulty bonding with their infants. Postpartum depression is also unique to new mothers, but any traumatic experience can bring on PTSD.
















, 
, and 






Rehabilitation and reform in America's largest maximum security prison














 and 






In his October cover story, Ta-Nehisi Coates explores how mass incarceration has affected African American families.














, 
, 
, and 






Coming soon: 
The Atlantic
's October cover story on the effects of the disproportionate imprisonment of black men




































Subscribe


Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price.










































State


Alabama


Alaska


Alberta


American Samoa


APO/FPO-Africa


APO/FPO-Canada


APO/FPO-Europe


APO/FPO-Middle East


APO/FPO-Americas


APO/FPO-Pacific


Arizona


Arkansas


British Columbia


California


Colorado


Connecticut


Delaware


District of Columbia


Florida


Georgia


Guam


Hawaii


Idaho


Illinois


Indiana


Iowa


Kansas


Kentucky


Louisiana


Maine


Manitoba


Marshall Islands


Maryland


Massachusetts


Michigan


Micronesia


Minnesota


Mississippi


Missouri


Montana


Nebraska


Nevada


New Brunswick


New Hampshire


New Jersey


New Mexico


New York


Newfoundland


Newfoundland-Labrador


North Carolina


North Dakota


Northern Mariana Isles


Northwest Territories


Nova Scotia


Nunavut


Ohio


Oklahoma


Ontario


Oregon


Palau


Pennsylvania


Prince Edward Island


Puerto Rico


Quebec


Quebec


Rhode Island


Saskatchewan


South Carolina


South Dakota


Tennessee


Texas


Utah


Vermont


Virgin Islands


Virginia


Washington


West Virginia


Wisconsin


Wyoming


Yukon Territories
































Newsletters
+













                                The Atlantic
                            






The Atlantic
 Daily






This Week






This Month










New Photo Galleries






Top Videos This Week















                                CityLab
                            




Today’s Top Stories






This Week's Most Popular Stories










I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.




































Follow
+
































About
+


































































 Copyright © 2015 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. 
 powered by Verizon Digital Media Services. 
Insights powered by 
















Close















        (
) Continue >
    

















































































































































