KEZI.com |  Walk to End Alzheimer's: Paint the Town Purple 

KEZI.com |  Walk to End Alzheimer's: Paint the Town Purple




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































Out & About: Sept. 18th-20th
by Laura Campbell


Out & About: Sept. 11th-13th
by Laura Campbell
































Walk to End Alzheimer's: Paint the Town Purple












Walk to End Alzheimer's: Paint the Town Purple












By 
Gail Eitner
 Sep. 14, 2015










































 Photos














 












 




 




Friday, September 18
th
, 5:00 PM- 8:00 PM


















Join us for our annual downtown celebration. We will be supporting  local businesses while they support the Alzheimer’s Association. This is  a self-guided tour of downtown called Painting the Town Purple. This  event will incorporate: Art made by people with dementia through our  Memories in the Making Program, Food & Drinks, Entertainment, Raffle  Prizes, and a Purple Costume Contest.




 




We hope you can all play a part in this unique Eugenian event that  will help bring awareness of this disease and the need for support! Make  sure to sign up for the Walk to End Alzheimer’s at the event, there  will be multiple locations to sign up and get additional education on  how to help.  








 




 




 








​








 






















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













