College Planning: Articles and Advice 

College Planning: Articles and Advice


















College Planning: Articles and Advice








 >
                                               Articles on College Planning                       












Online


Campus


Both






Subject: 




 - Select All Subjects - 




Art and Design (All)


Art


Graphic Design


Web Design






Beauty and Cosmetology (All)


Cosmetology


Massage Therapy


Skin Care Tech






Business (All)


Accounting


Business Administration


Finance


Human Resources


International Business


Management


Marketing


Real Estate






Education (All)


Adult Education


Education Administration


Elementary Education and Teaching


Secondary Education and Teaching


Special Education


Teaching






Health Care (All)


Dental Assisting


Health Care Administration


Medical Assisting


Medical Technology


Pharmacy Tech


Veterinary Tech






Hospitality and Culinary (All)


Culinary Arts


Hospitality Management






Legal Studies and Criminal Justice (All)


Court Reporting


Criminal Justice


Fire Science


Homeland Security


Paralegal






Liberal Arts (All)


Communications


Counseling


Social Science


Social Work






Nursing (All)


LPN to BSN


LPN / LVN


Registered Nursing


RN to BSN






Technology and IT (All)


Computer Programming


Computer Science


Information Technology


Web Development






Vocational (All)


Auto Mechanics


Electrician


HVAC


Plumbing










Degree: 




- Select All Degrees -


Associate's


Bachelor's


Certificates


Diplomas


Doctoral


Master's








Zip Code: 
















 










Although EMBA programs tend to have higher admission rates than regular MBA programs, there are fewer to choose from. To ensure admission, you must prepare a compelling profile by distinguishing yourself from other accomplished applicants.












A low score on the GMAT or low GPA can jeopardize your chances of getting into the MBA program of your choice. But how low is too low? It depends on your circumstances. Here are some things you can do to balance them out.












Mine Your Identity! When colleges ask you to "Tell us about yourself," it may sound simple, but it is not.












To get into medical school, you explained why you wanted to be a physician. Now that you're an M.D., you need to secure that critical residency interview so you can show what you've got. Your personal statement is key in gaining the interest of the residency committee.












Hundreds of Chinese apply for coveted spots in the top U.S. business programs each year. What are those programs looking for in their applications?












After graduating from high school, many students face a crucial decision: college or vocational school? Read on for differences, similiarities and guidelines on how to choose your educational path.












Overwhelmed by the numbers thrown around in college rankings? Find out how to use them to figure out whether a school is right for you.












Sometimes finding your passion is the easy part, but how to follow it can be less clear. Art, culinary and music schools offer you an in-depth education in your field, but you'll have to make some significant choices.












As a large portion of college students depend on loans to fund their education. Here are 6 ways to avoid college student loan traps and minimize high payments after graduation.












Technical college can provide you with all the training that you need to find a well-paying job in a satisfying career field.












Planning for college is a two-year process. And unless a rich uncle is going to write a big check for you, your college planning will involve acquiring and submitting financial aid forms, scholarship applications, and grant applications












The statement of purpose is one of the best ways that you can demonstrate your intellectual development, ability to write and think clearly, and knowledge of your field. Graduate admissions committees want to know that you understand what you're getting into












Looking for late-summer additions to your reading list? Try some of these fun reads, from classic sci-fi to groundbreaking graphic novel. And learn where to find more great recs.












Paying for college is no easy thing. However, financial aid through the federal government or even private banking institutions can help you advance your academic goals.












How to win scholarships ... Applying for scholarships can be time consuming and takes dedication and motivation. But the thousands of dollars you could receive makes the effort worthwhile. Here are some hints to help you apply for and win scholarships












Rejected before? Try, try again -- but know that many others are taking the same approach, and business schools are getting pickier. By following these three steps you can beat the growing competition for re-application spots.












Law school applications are steadily on the rise, and your personal statement is the best place to make yourself stand out from the wannabe attorney crowd. What should you include in your essay to convince the admissions committee to stand up and take notice?












If your law school application offers optional opportunities for submitting supplementary materials, you are wise to take advantage and give the admissions committee members more information about their most desirable applicant: you!












Here's some advice for high school students planning a college visit: Be prepared. Plan to go when students will be on campus and also take advantage of a campus tour. And make sure to ask the right questions!












Elite MBA programs receive tons of applications from Indians who want to gain the business education that will enable them to get ahead in India's fast-growing economy. Here's how to distinguish yourself from the rest.




College Planning Tips
 


 
 
 
 
We've been collecting articles about planning for college. We hope you find them useful in your college planning!
 
 
 






Colleges in USA
















Popular US Cities
























































Copyright © 2002 - 2015 QuinStreet, Inc.
























 
 





