Colleges and Universities in BC 

Colleges and Universities in BC


















British Columbia Colleges and Universities








 >
                               		
               
 >
                                               BC Colleges                       












Online


Campus


Both






Subject: 




 - Select All Subjects - 




Art and Design (All)


Art


Graphic Design


Web Design






Beauty and Cosmetology (All)


Cosmetology


Massage Therapy


Skin Care Tech






Business (All)


Accounting


Business Administration


Finance


Human Resources


International Business


Management


Marketing


Real Estate






Education (All)


Adult Education


Education Administration


Elementary Education and Teaching


Secondary Education and Teaching


Special Education


Teaching






Health Care (All)


Dental Assisting


Health Care Administration


Medical Assisting


Medical Technology


Pharmacy Tech


Veterinary Tech






Hospitality and Culinary (All)


Culinary Arts


Hospitality Management






Legal Studies and Criminal Justice (All)


Court Reporting


Criminal Justice


Fire Science


Homeland Security


Paralegal






Liberal Arts (All)


Communications


Counseling


Social Science


Social Work






Nursing (All)


LPN to BSN


LPN / LVN


Registered Nursing


RN to BSN






Technology and IT (All)


Computer Programming


Computer Science


Information Technology


Web Development






Vocational (All)


Auto Mechanics


Electrician


HVAC


Plumbing










Degree: 




- Select All Degrees -


Associate's


Bachelor's


Certificates


Diplomas


Doctoral


Master's








Zip Code: 
















 




































Colleges and Universities in British Columbia


British Columbia is a unique and varied province, from the flower-lined streets of Victoria to the booming business world of Vancouver and beautiful landscapes in between. You'll find opportunities to get outdoors in this Western province's many ski resorts, but you can also discover art and fun nightlife in Vancouver, Canada's third largest city. When it comes to an education, the University of British Columbia boasts the largest enrollment in the province, and is consistently ranked among the world's top universities, but there are plenty of other options to fit a would-be student's interests and needs. Art and design schools, community colleges, seminary schools, film schools, technical schools and more can be found in British Columbia. Vancouver is a popular shooting location for Hollywood movie companies, and the Vancouver Film School is one institution that offers training in acting, 3D animation and film production.






 


Popular entry level jobs for British Columbia university students


Leading industrial sectors in Vancouver are biotechnology, film production, mining, software development, and more. Of course, you can use your schooling to enter the field that you want and put your skills to work for you. Occupations and average hourly wages in Vancouver include:








Chemical engineers: CAN $37.35


Computer programmers and interactive media developers: CAN $30.14


Film and videocamera operators: CAN $23.75


Midwives and practitioners of natural healing: CAN $20.02


Mining engineers: CAN $34.72


Producers, directors and choreographers: CAN $26.52


Software engineers: CAN $31.22








With training at one of the province's many schools, you can gain the skills that you need to make a start in your career and have the ability to establish a successful life in British Columbia.
 














See also: 
 
Directory of BC Colleges & Universities
 
Campus & Online Schools Accepting Students from BC
 




 
 
 
Refine School Matches
 
Hide filters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 SUBJECT                             
 
 
 
 
All
 
 
 
 
Art & Design
 
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
 
Communications & Media
 
 
 
 
Computers & Technology
 
 
 
 
 
Cosmetology
 
 
 
 
Criminal Justice, Legal & Safety
 
 
 
 
Culinary Arts
 
 
 
 
Education & Teaching
 
 
 
 
Engineering & Architecture
 
 
 
 
Health, Healthcare & Nursing
 
 
 
 
High School
 
 
 
 
Liberal Arts
 
 
 
 
Math & Science
 
 
 
 
Psychology & Counseling
 
 
 
 
Testing
 
 
 
 
Vocational & Trade
 
 
 
 
See More
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 DEGREE                             
 
 
 
 
Associate
 
 
 
 
Bachelor
 
 
 
 
Master
 
 
 
 
Doctoral
 
 
 
 
 
Diploma
 
 
 
 
Certificate
 
 
 
 
Coursework
 
 
 
 
See More
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 PROGRAM TYPE                             
 
 
 
 
Either
 
 
 
 
Campus
 
 
 
 
Online
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 START TIME                             
 
 
 
 
Less than 1 month
 
 
 
 
1-3 months
 
 
 
 
More than 3 months
 
 
 
 
 
                                 LOCATION                             
 
 
 
 
 
                                         Please enter valid US or Canada Zip.                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             Results open in new window         
 
 
 
 
 
 Searching ...
 
 
Matching School Ads
 
 
 
 
 
 
,                      Vancouver                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



		Alumni have appeared in reality competition shows such as Top Chef and Project Runway.



		Has a team of about 4,000 faculty members focused on helping students tap opportunities in a marketplace driven by ideas.



		Offers programs in design, media arts, fashion, and culinary.



		Provides program coordinators who work with students to ensure they have the learning materials, assignments, facilities, and faculty to get the most out of the program.



		Over 50 campus locations nationwide.




 
 
 
 
Good for Working Adults
 
 
 
 
 
Flexible Scheduling
 
Financial Aid
 
Transferable Credits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
,                      Online              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



		Provides students the opportunity to train at home in their spare time to get their high school diploma, train for a new career, or enhance current skills.



		Offers programs in psychology/social work, business management, medical billing, criminal justice, and more.



		Member of the United States Distance Learning Association (USDLA), the Canadian Network for Innovation in Education (CNIE), and the International Council for Open and Distance Education (ICDE).



		Features a fully flexible schedule with no classes to attend, leaving the study pace up to the student.




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Online Courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
,                      Vancouver                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



		Their institutional scholarship is available to students who qualify.



		Campus features a Creative lab, where students may learn and get practice using industry standard hardware and software.



		Programs and courses include training in game development, graphic design, interior design, marketing and merchandising for fashion, and more.



		Provides career placement services including an online resume building tool, portfolio assistance, and interview skill development.




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
,                      Online              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



		Designated a 2015 Military Friendly School by Victory Media for the 4th consecutive year.



		Listed on the President’s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll in 2013, for the sixth consecutive year.



		Links students to hundreds of training opportunities ( beyond their traditional internships and practicum) at their many “partner agencies” in each of their local communities. 



		Accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC).




 
 
 
 
Good for Working Adults
 
 
 
 
 
Online Courses
 
Flexible Scheduling
 
Financial Aid
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
,                      Surrey                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



		Provides lifetime career search assistance for all graduates.



		Engages in partnerships with numerous organizations, such as the Portland Hotel Society, Provincial Outreach Program for Autism and Related Disorders (POPARD), and Lookout Emergency Aid Society.



		Offers scholarships and bursaries to qualifying students.



		Gives a free College English Preparatory program to enrolling students.



		Accredited by the Private Career Training Institutions Agency (PCTIA).




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Matching School Ads     
 






Other Colleges & Universities in BC
 
The following list of schools in British Columbia 
has been resourced from 
 (AUCC).










University






Location






Website






Language Spoken






Year Established 










University of British Columbia






Vancouver & Kelowna












English






1908










Emily Carr University of Art and Design






Vancouver












English






1925










Trinity Western University






Langley












English






1962










University of Victoria






Victoria












English






1963










Simon Fraser University






Burnaby, Surrey, & Vancouver












English






1965










Vancouver Island University






Nanaimo, Duncan, Parksville, & Powell River












English






1969










Thompson Rivers University






Kamloops












English






1970










University of the Fraser Valley






Abbotsford, Chilliwack and Mission












English






1974










Kwantlen Polytechnic University






Richmond, Surrey, Langley, and Cloverdale












English






1981










University of Northern British Columbia






Prince George












English






1990










Royal Roads University






Victoria












English






1995








 


 
 
 
 
Featured Schools




 
         Matching School Ads     
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Matching School Ads     
 






Schools in BC cities:
Universities in nearby provinces:
Articles and resources:
We've been collecting links to universities and colleges in British Columbia,     where you can find information on admissions, courses, degree programs and more.     We hope these links help your British Columbia college search, but please note that each school is     responsible for its own website, business practices and academic standards.
 
 
 






Colleges in USA
















Popular US Cities
























































Copyright © 2002 - 2015 QuinStreet, Inc.






























 
 





