Colleges and Universities in New Brunswick 

Colleges and Universities in New Brunswick


















New Brunswick Colleges and Universities








 >
                               		
               
 >
                                               New Brunswick Colleges                       












Online


Campus


Both






Subject: 




 - Select All Subjects - 




Art and Design (All)


Art


Graphic Design


Web Design






Beauty and Cosmetology (All)


Cosmetology


Massage Therapy


Skin Care Tech






Business (All)


Accounting


Business Administration


Finance


Human Resources


International Business


Management


Marketing


Real Estate






Education (All)


Adult Education


Education Administration


Elementary Education and Teaching


Secondary Education and Teaching


Special Education


Teaching






Health Care (All)


Dental Assisting


Health Care Administration


Medical Assisting


Medical Technology


Pharmacy Tech


Veterinary Tech






Hospitality and Culinary (All)


Culinary Arts


Hospitality Management






Legal Studies and Criminal Justice (All)


Court Reporting


Criminal Justice


Fire Science


Homeland Security


Paralegal






Liberal Arts (All)


Communications


Counseling


Social Science


Social Work






Nursing (All)


LPN to BSN


LPN / LVN


Registered Nursing


RN to BSN






Technology and IT (All)


Computer Programming


Computer Science


Information Technology


Web Development






Vocational (All)


Auto Mechanics


Electrician


HVAC


Plumbing










Degree: 




- Select All Degrees -


Associate's


Bachelor's


Certificates


Diplomas


Doctoral


Master's








Zip Code: 
















 




































Colleges and Universities in New Brunswick


From natural wonders to city strolls, mountain ranges to urban comforts, New Brunswick is a pleasant place to live with plenty of convenient getaways. This eastern Canadian province, with more than 700,000 residents, also offers a variety of opportunities for higher education learning, from traditional colleges to vocational schools and online coursework. The ability to log in and complete your coursework online can be a lifesaver if you're ever snowed in. However, you can also find on-campus opportunities. At the University of New Brunswick, you can study anything from business to forestry to information sciences. In New Brunswick, you can also find private schools and community colleges that offer similar options, plus training in carpentry, commercial driving, hairstyling and more.






 


Top New Brunswick post-college jobs


Leading industries in New Brunswick include aerospace and defense, food processing, manufacturing and information and communications technology. Representative occupations and hourly average wages coming from the St. John - St. Stephen area (the largest in New Brunswick) include:




Civil engineers: CAN $28.00


Construction managers: CAN $24.00


Cooks: CAN $12.00


Information systems analysts and consultants: CAN $25.00


Software engineers: CAN $28.00


Truck drivers: CAN $16.00




Most of these occupations are expected to have good employment potential, according to Human Resources and Skills Development Canada. Colleges in New Brunswick can certainly help you to obtain the skills you need to make a life for yourself in New Brunswick.
 














See also: 
 
Directory of New Brunswick Colleges & Universities
 
Campus & Online Schools Accepting Students from New Brunswick
 




 
 
 
Refine School Matches
 
Hide filters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 SUBJECT                             
 
 
 
 
All
 
 
 
 
Art & Design
 
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
 
Communications & Media
 
 
 
 
Computers & Technology
 
 
 
 
 
Cosmetology
 
 
 
 
Criminal Justice, Legal & Safety
 
 
 
 
Culinary Arts
 
 
 
 
Education & Teaching
 
 
 
 
Engineering & Architecture
 
 
 
 
Health, Healthcare & Nursing
 
 
 
 
High School
 
 
 
 
Liberal Arts
 
 
 
 
Math & Science
 
 
 
 
Psychology & Counseling
 
 
 
 
Testing
 
 
 
 
Vocational & Trade
 
 
 
 
See More
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 DEGREE                             
 
 
 
 
Associate
 
 
 
 
Bachelor
 
 
 
 
Master
 
 
 
 
Doctoral
 
 
 
 
 
Diploma
 
 
 
 
Certificate
 
 
 
 
Coursework
 
 
 
 
See More
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 PROGRAM TYPE                             
 
 
 
 
Either
 
 
 
 
Campus
 
 
 
 
Online
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                 START TIME                             
 
 
 
 
Less than 1 month
 
 
 
 
1-3 months
 
 
 
 
More than 3 months
 
 
 
 
 
                                 LOCATION                             
 
 
 
 
 
                                         Please enter valid US or Canada Zip.                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             Results open in new window         
 
 
 
 
 
 Searching ...
 
 
Matching School Ads
 
 
 
 
 
 
,                      Online              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



		Provides students the opportunity to train at home in their spare time to get their high school diploma, train for a new career, or enhance current skills.



		Offers programs in psychology/social work, business management, medical billing, criminal justice, and more.



		Member of the United States Distance Learning Association (USDLA), the Canadian Network for Innovation in Education (CNIE), and the International Council for Open and Distance Education (ICDE).



		Features a fully flexible schedule with no classes to attend, leaving the study pace up to the student.




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Online Courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
,                      Online              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



		Designated a 2015 Military Friendly School by Victory Media for the 4th consecutive year.



		Listed on the President’s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll in 2013, for the sixth consecutive year.



		Links students to hundreds of training opportunities ( beyond their traditional internships and practicum) at their many “partner agencies” in each of their local communities. 



		Accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC).




 
 
 
 
Good for Working Adults
 
 
 
 
 
Online Courses
 
Flexible Scheduling
 
Financial Aid
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
,                      Online              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



		Ranked as one of the Best Regional Universities in the North in 2015 by 
U.S. News and World Report.



		Ranked #23 on the list of Best Colleges for Veterans in 2015 by 
U.S. News and World Report.



		Ranked as one of the Best Online Graduate Engineering Programs in 2015 by 
U.S. News and World Report.



		Established in 1919 to offer part-time educational opportunities for adult students in law, business, and accounting.



		Stays committed to providing educational opportunities to men and women of all ages and economic backgrounds.




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Online Courses
 
 
 
         Matching School Ads     
 






Other Colleges & Universities in New Brunswick
 
Moncton 
Sussex 
Edmundston, Dieppe, Campbellton, Bathurst 
Fredericton 
Sackville 
Fredericton, NB 
Fredericton, Moncton, St. Andrews, St. John, Woodstock 
Fredericton, Moncton, Saint John, also locations in other provinces 
Moncton, New Brunswick. Career training for business administration, dental hygiene, dental assistant, policing and corrections, paralegal and more. 
Fredericton, New Brunswick 
St. Stephen, New Brunswick 
St. John 
Moncton, New Brunswick
 
Fredericton 
Saint John 
Fredricton, New Brunswick 
 


 
 
 
 
Featured Schools




 
         Matching School Ads     
 
 
 
 
         Matching School Ads     
 






Universities in nearby provinces:
Articles and resources:
We've been collecting links to universities and colleges in New Brunswick,     where you can find information on admissions, courses, degree programs and more.     We hope these links help your New Brunswick college search, but please note that each school is     responsible for its own website, business practices and academic standards.
 
 
 






Colleges in USA
















Popular US Cities
























































Copyright © 2002 - 2015 QuinStreet, Inc.






























 
 





