How Safe is Vassar College? Learn About Campus Crime Ratings How Safe is Vassar College? Learn About Campus Crime Ratings
 Sign in 
 my notebook 
»
»
Vassar College
College Navigation >
Overall Crime Rating at Vassar College is Worse Than Most

                                The overall crime rating is based on reported crime on campus and in surrounding areas.
                                Colleges with low amounts of reported crime are valued as being safer. Vassar College earns an
                                overall crime rating of F+ when we compare reported on-campus,
                                city, and regional crime against all other schools nationwide.
                            
Campus
City
Region
Overall
F
D-
C
F+
Very Poor On Campus Crime Rating at Vassar College Means This School is Worse Than Most

                                On campus crime statistics reported by Vassar carry the most importance in our overall estimation
                                of campus crime. When all violations are totalled and weighed by both severity and the number of students at the school,
                                Vassar has far more than average reported crime. 
Can High Reported Crime Be A Good Sign?

                        We base our ratings on reported crime, as there is no way to know how much unreported crime goes on. Does a high amount of reported crime mean the school is dangerous, or does it mean that it is safe due to its stricter law enforcement
                        and reporting? Areas with low amounts of reported crime could just be more lax on enforcement.
                            
Poughkeepsie Crime Rating is Worse Than Average
Vassar College is located in Poughkeepsie, NY.
                                When compared with other towns and cities nationwide, Poughkeepsie ranks above average 
                                in overall crime, making it
                                 potentially unsafe and more likely 
                                students at Vassar may fall victim to a crime when venturing off campus.
                            
How Relevant is Off Campus Crime Data?

                                Be sure to ask the admissions office about crime both on and off campus.
                            
Regional Crime Rating Near Poughkeepsie is About Average

                                Beyond Poughkeepsie, other nearby towns and cities include Newburgh,
                                Beacon, and Kingston.
                                Altogether, these locations have an overall
                                 average 
                        amount of crime when compared to other areas nationwide, meaning the area
                         should be about average in terms of safety.
Important Questions to Ask About Safety
Even in low-crime areas, students still run the risk of encountering violence and unsafe situations. What kind of policies does the college have in place to protect students or help students who are victims of crimes?
How secure are the dorm rooms and other buildings? Would it be easy for an intruder to break in?
What kind of punishments or penalties are in place for students who are accused or convicted of crimes?
One way to make a student feel more comfortable may be to take a self-defense or safety class. Are there classes like this offered at the college?
Students that went to this school also considered:
ABOUT
GET STARTED
EXPLORE
HELP
FOLLOW
270 River Street, Troy, NY
 |
					
 |
				

					© All Rights Reserved. College Factual is a trademark of Media Factual
				