How Diverse is Vassar College? Explore Ethnic, Age, Male to Female and Geographic Diversity How Diverse is Vassar College? Explore Ethnic, Age, Male to Female and Geographic Diversity
 Sign in 
 my notebook 
»
»
»
Vassar College
College Navigation >
All Ethnicities are Encouraged to Apply. This School is Considered Above Average in Diversity.


						Ethnically-diverse college campuses offer students the opportunity to study and collaborate with undergraduates from racial
						and ethnic groups that are different from their own.

						Vassar College is ranked 

							in ethnic diversity nationwide, with a student body composition
							 that is above the national average.

						When available, the chart below also explores ethnic diversity among the faculty at Vassar.

						
Diversity Decisions

						How important is diversity to you? Let these numbers help guide you to a college where you will feel comfortable learning and growing.
					
Male to Female Ratio is Better Than Average


						Will you feel more comfortable on a campus with a balanced mix of males to females?

						 At Vassar College, the male to female student ratio is above the national average of about 40:60, with a student body that is
								equally balanced.
							
							It is ranked at 

							in male to female diversity nationwide.
						

						The undergraduate population is comprised of 1,051 males and
						1,355 females.
						Where available, the chart below also shows the male to female distribution among Vassar's faculty.

						
Meet Students From All 50 States: Excellent Geographic Diversity


						Would you prefer a college that attracts students from all across the United States, or would you prefer a regional college
						that primarily pulls students from within your home state?

						We've derived the geographic diversity of each school by looking at where matriculated undergraduates lived before they attended college.

						26% of the students attending Vassar College come from within the state, with the entire undergraduate body split among 49 states (may include Washington D.C.), as shown in the chart below. This puts Vassar's level of geographic diversity far above the national average, and gives it a nationwide geographic diversity ranking of 
.
How Important is it For You to Associate With Young Bucks or Wise Grand-Pops?


						Are you looking for a college where the student body represents a blend of different ages and generations, or would you prefer
						a college where most students are about your own age?

						Traditionally, undergraduate students range in age from 18 to 22.
						At Vassar College, 92% of students are in this age bracket,
						compared to the national average of 60%.

						

						The bar chart below shows the age distribution of the undergraduate student body at Vassar.

						
Students that went to this school also considered:
ABOUT
GET STARTED
EXPLORE
HELP
FOLLOW
270 River Street, Troy, NY
 |
					
 |
				

					© All Rights Reserved. College Factual is a trademark of Media Factual
				