10 Dead At Umpqua Community College Oregon LIVE STREAM | Mediaite 



10 Dead At Umpqua Community College Oregon LIVE STREAM | Mediaite
 




















































































































 


 Menu














 


 


 


 


 














































Police Respond to Shooting at Oregon College; 9 Dead, 9 Wounded (UPDATED)


by 
 | 2:32 pm, October 1st, 2015




live stream


























































 




Authorities responded to an active shooter situation at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon that reportedly left 10 people dead and many more injured.


Earlier today, reports said 10 were dead, but state police later updated that number to 15:




Oregon State Police confirm 15 dead in 
. 


— KATU News (@KATUNews) 




UPDATE –– 2:42 pm EST:
 That number has 
 to between 7-10 fatalities.


UPDATE –– 4:29 pm EST:
 Officials have now confirmed the number to be 13 dead.


Authorities are saying that roughly 20 individuals were injured, and the shooter is down:



BREAKING: Douglas County Sheriff confirms to 
 a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon; 15-20 injuries. Shooter down.


— bernie lubell (@bernielubell) 






UPDATE –– 7:57 pm EST:
 At a press conference tonight, the official and confirmed number was 10 dead, 7 injured.


The college itself was placed on lockdown in reaction to the shooting. The local fire and EMS agency tweeted out information:




Active shooter at UCC. Please stay away from the area


— Fire Dist No.2 (@DCFD2) 





Active shooter scene is code 4. Multiple casualties all pt’s transported. Media requests are being handled by Douglas County Major Crimes


— Fire Dist No.2 (@DCFD2) 






UPDATE –– 2:56 pm EST:
 A local hospital has confirmed at least 10 injured coming to them:




BREAKING: Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, OR tells 
 they have six patients and at least four more on the way as of 11:40a local.


— bernie lubell (@bernielubell) 




Authorities now say it is no longer an active shooting situation.


UPDATE –– 3:07 pm EST:
 The Douglas County Sheriff’s Office provided more information on Facebook about when they were notified about the shooting and where students and faculty are being taken:



At about 10:38 AM, the 911 center received a report of a shooting at Umpqua Community College. Police units from multiple juristictions have responded.


Students and faculty members are being bused to the Douglas County Fairgrounds and can be picked up there.


We have no further information at this time.



UPDATE –– 3:19 pm EST:
 Pictures have popped up on social media from the scene:



LATEST: Multiple casualties after shooting reported at college in Oregon: 
 


— ABC News (@ABC) 








Authorities check bags as students and staff are moved off campus at Umpqua Community College after shooting report. 


— Michael Sullivan (@MikeSullPhoto) 





UPDATE: Gunman in custody at Umpqua Community College 
 
 


— WHIOTV (@whiotv) 








BREAKING: Multiple Casualties Reported in Shooting at Oregon Community College 
 


— National Review (@NRO) 




UPDATE –– 4:05 pm EST:
 The Oregon Attorney General is now saying the gunman is dead.


UPDATE –– 5:10 pm EST:
 CNN is reporting that four guns were recovered from the scene.


UPDATE –– 6:14 pm EST:
 The school will be closed until Monday:


Umpqua Community College will be CLOSED until Monday, October 5. Student activities for the weekend have been cancelled.


— Umpqua CC (@umpquacc) 




Watch live coverage below, via NBC News and KEZI:






[
image via screengrab
]


— —




 




Follow Mediaite
















 


filed under


, 




























































































Mediaite Newsletter


Sign up for our newsletter to receive Mediaite in your inbox, daily!




















Around the Web




























Meet the Press






Face the Nation






















 
















Follow Us












Tips


Have a tip or story idea? 
 Or to keep it anonymous, 
.
















 


































© 2015 Mediaite, LLC
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
  |
			
 |
			




, 




















































 

























