Troy Polamalu's cousin among survivors of Oregon massacre - NY Daily News  
 
Troy Polamalu's cousin among survivors of Oregon massacre - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Troy Polamalu’s cousin among survivors of Umpqua Community College massacre: report
 
 BY  
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Updated: Thursday, October 1, 2015, 8:09 PM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justin K. Aller/Getty Images
 
Troy Polamalu's cousin is reportedly a teacher at Umpqua Community College.
 
 
 
 

	Thursday's deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., hit close to home for former Steelers safety Troy Polamalu, whose cousin reportedly works at the school and is among the survivors.



	Brandon Polamalu, a teacher at UCC who according to Oregon Live is related to the eight-time Pro Bowler, texted his mother shortly after the massacre broke out, killing a reported 10 victims.




 
 
 
 
 







	"There's a shooting on campus. I'm OK mom,” Polamalu wrote at 10:51 a.m. local time, Oregon Live reported.



	Troy Polamalu, who retired from the NFL last year, graduated from Douglas High School in nearby Winston, Oregon.




 
 








ON A MOBILE DEVICE? 


 
 
 
Tags:
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


 


 
 
 
 


















 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NFL
 Video


 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Columnists
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 