8 Of The Craziest College Clubs | Her Campus 



8 Of The Craziest College Clubs | Her Campus










































 

















      Open Menu    







      Search    






 
 
 
















Search form














 








All My Campus Chapters








































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































...








 












My Campus


Style
































































More


















Search








Search form














 






 




















 




My Campus
Style
More
Follow us on:








 








 






















8 Of The Craziest College Clubs















          By 
 in 
 



          Posted          
Nov 14 2012

          -
          
09:00am





          Tagged           








 










 

          Share this 
article
 












 
Have a love for quirkiness?  Not into joining your run-of-the-mill school paper or homecoming committee?  Last year we compiled a list of 
, but there’s plenty more craziness out there if you’re willing to look for it.  From a murder mystery club to a pizza crust appreciation club, check out the wacky options that await you at schools all around the country!


Western Washington University – Foulplay: A Murder Mystery Club


Murder mysteries are no longer just for the detectives in books and movie—now you can become a sleuth too at Western Washington University!  The Foulplay club lets you act out your Sherlock fantasies by giving you the chance to play elaborate murder mystery games.  At a game, you’re given a character book and have a few hours to figure out who the murderer is while cautiously interacting with your fellow friends—who may be your enemies!  According to the 
, “It’s to DIE for!”




Florida State University – The Flying High Circus


There are only two collegiate circuses in America, and FSU has one of them. Students make the costumes, put up the tent, produce the shows, and perform in all the acts!  According to their 
, the Flying High Circus was created to help integrate men and women when the school became coed, which means it’s been empowering awesome collegiettes for years.




Kutztown University – The Medieval Renaissance Club


Sick and tired of the same-old same-old college lifestyle?  Wishing you could just go back to a time when things were simpler and people fought with swords?  Then you should head on over to Kutztown University, where the Medieval Renaissance Club hosts a Dinner Theater in the fall and a Renaissance Faire in the spring.  Their 
 also says you’re encouraged to learn skills from the time period “such as carpentry, weaving and chain mail.” Forget Facebook; stage combat sounds much more fun.




Tufts University 
– 
Free Compliments


Sometimes you feel best about yourself when you’re telling other people what you like about them.  That’s what the Tufts Free Compliments club is all about—just letting people know what’s great about them to brighten up their day!  Members stand outside a building on campus with signs that say “Free compliments” and shout niceties at anyone who walks by.  In a Her Campus Tufts 
 on the group, one of the members said that they “compliment everyone that walks past, regardless of age, gender, race, whether they have headphones on, whether they are on the phone, whether they are walking and talking with a group, etc.” Sounds like the perfect way to make your day while also making someone else’s!




Pages
1








 


 
















You Might Also Enjoy








 


















 






















 






















 






















 






















 






















 




 


 






College is hard. We make it easier!


Get the best of Her Campus delivered straight to your inbox!














































 














 










About The Author










 
 


 
 
Katherine Mirani is the News Editor for Her Campus. She graduated from Northwestern University's journalism school in 2015. Before joining Her Campus full time, she worked on investigative stories for Medill Watchdog and the Scripps News Washington Bureau. When not obsessing over journalism, Katherine enjoys pasta, ridiculous action movies, #longreads, and her cockatiel, Oreo.


 
 




 








 






















 






Editor's Note




Congratulations to our new campus chapters at 
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
 and 
! 
Be the Editor-in-Chief of your own magazine -- 


 






















 






Most Read on Her Campus








 


















 






















 






















 






















 






















 




 


 
















 






We Recommend




 








 






User login






E-mail 
*








Password 
*














 










 




































 












 




HER CAMPUS 101


















JOIN THE HER CAMPUS TEAM














FUN & NOT FUN STUFF
















CONTACT US








 














 
Her Campus Media / 1089 Commonwealth Avenue / Boston, MA 02215 /
      


Copyright © 2009-2015 Her Campus Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.






 




 









































































