LGBT College Statistics 

LGBT College Statistics














Utility Navigation








 




































Search






Search






















 


 






See All


 >


 >


 >


LGBT College Statistics










LGBT College Statistics


See how the numbers add up when it comes to LGBT students.






      By
      
















Photo: Thinkstock


Today, colleges are offering more programs for LGBT students than ever before. At the same time, more LGBT students are enjoying the college experience and reporting on the positives and negatives. The result is a huge mass of statistics regarding 
. We’ve organized these statistics by category to help you get a better idea of what LGBT students go through during their college years.


Students should be aware of their school’s policies and history of supporting or ignoring LGBT issues.




Campus Culture


In many cases, the most important thing for LGBT students is how they are included on campus through 
 and other social activities. Many schools are now offering multiple options for LGBT students who want to get involved on campus.




Between 1996 and 2006, over 60 campuses established LGBT Centers. Today, over 
 across the nation, many of which are staffed by paid employees.






The 
 reports that 38 colleges currently offer gender-neutral housing options for LGBT students, including 
, 
 and 
.




Safety


Increased inclusion at many colleges doesn’t automatically solve everything for LGBT students. Unfortunately, many LGBT students still suffer from threats, violence and safety issues during their college years. 




 who experience frequent verbal harassment don’t plan to attend college after high school. Only 6.7% don’t intend to go to college if they experience less frequent or rare verbal harassment.






According to the 
 (NGLTF), 20% of college students fear for their physical safety due to their gender identity or their perceived sexual orientation.






The 
 towards LGBT college students is derogatory remarks. However, verbal threats, graffiti and the pressure to keep quiet about sexual orientation and/or gender identity are also common.




Academics


Does your school offer specific LGBT classes or programs? More schools are incorporating these types of classes into their curriculum, but there’s still room for improvement.




An NGLTF study found that 29% of students did not feel that their curriculum adequately represents contributions of LGBT individuals.






According to the 
, four schools currently have an LGBT Major: 
, 
, 
 and 
.




University Involvement


The campus experience for LGBT students can be affected by what the administrators have to say on the matter. Students should be aware of their school’s policies and history of supporting or ignoring LGBT issues.




According to an 
, 31% of college students feel that their college’s administration thoroughly addresses LGBT issues on campus.






The 
 reports that 14 colleges are considered to be “trans-friendly,” meaning that the school has gender identity inclusive non-discrimination statements, gender neutral housing and gender neutral restrooms. Among these schools are 
, 
 and 
.




Quick Tips




See how your school ranks in terms of various LGBT issues and resources by searching the 
. 






Reach out to your college’s LGBT Center for support with peer issues, finding social events on campus and counseling and health services.






Encourage your college’s administration to include non-discriminatory statements about LGBT students in the school codes and handbooks.






Still looking for colleges? 
.














Quick Search: Find the College that's Right for You!










Location












Area of Study




- Select One -


Agriculture and Natural Resources


Arts & Humanities


Business


Communication & Media


Cosmetology & Beauty


Culinary Arts & Food Service


Education


Engineering


Family and Consumer Science Professions


Fitness, Recreation and Leisure Studies


Funeral and Mortuary Services


Health & Medical Services


High School/Secondary Diploma Programs


Interdisciplinary Studies


Legal Professions


Library Professions


Life Science


Life Skills Training


Mathematics and Statistics


Medical Residency Programs


Military Science


Natural Sciences


Security and Protective Service Careers


Skilled Trades


Social Sciences


Social Work


Technician Careers


Technology


Transportation Careers


Undecided


Veterinary Medicine












Concentration (optional)




- Select One-








OR






School Name










Search






















Advertisement


















Visit Our Student Center






Get on track!






Visit our 


And find out everything you need to know about planning for college.








Advertisement
















10 Best Colleges for LGBT Students






10 Best Colleges for Education Majors
































© 2015 Campus Explorer






























































































 










×






Tell us who you are


Planning for college is an adventure. Let us be your guide.




Click to Select
High School Student


Click to Select
College Student


Click to Select
Adult Learner


Click to Select
Parent




None of the above? Select 























