2 women killed in Louisiana theater shooting had ‘a vision … a future’ | Q13 FOX News  


2 women killed in Louisiana theater shooting had ‘a vision … a future’ | Q13 FOX News














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































57°






Low 
52°


High 
64°












Sat





					52° 
 68°
					






Sun





					52° 
 74°
					






Mon





					53° 
 75°
					
















 








 




























 








2 women killed in Louisiana theater shooting had ‘a vision … a future’




Posted 5:01 PM, July 24, 2015, by 
 




 














From left, Mayci Breaux, 21, and Jillian Johnson, 33, were killed by a gunman in a movie theater in Lafayette, La., on Thursday night.


LAFAYETTE, La. — One co-owned a gift and toy shop. Another was a college student who also worked at a women’s clothing store and planned to start radiology school in the coming days.


Jillian Johnson, 33, and Mayci Breaux, 21, were among those 
 at a Lafayette, Louisiana, movie theater at a showing of the Amy Schumer comedy, “Trainwreck.”


Breaux, of Franklin, Louisiana, was shot dead at the scene, and Johnson, who was from Lafayette, died a short time later at a hospital, Lafayette police Chief Jim Craft said.


“Don’t lose sight of the fact that these two individuals had a vision, had a name, had a future,” said Col. Michael Edmonson of the Louisiana State Police. “It wasn’t to die as they did horribly in this theater here.”


Of the nine others injured, one was in critical condition Friday afternoon, and two had been released, Craft said. Authorities identified the gunman as 59-year-old 
.




An online business profile identifies Johnson as the co-owner of the Red Arrow Workshop. The business is described as a gift, apparel, accessories and toy shop. Johnson owned the shop with her husband, Jason Brown, the website says.


She was “obsessed with Fats Waller,” and her all-time favorite movie was “Coal Miner’s Daughter,” according to the site.


“Pretty much any time you go in, she is there and doing work,” a friend, Caitlin Sonnier, said of Johnson’s presence at the shop. “She was very devoted to it.”


Johnson was also part of a band, the Figs, which was at the “forefront of a movement of a younger generation embracing Cajun/folk music traditions and making them popular and ‘cool’ again,” Molly Rowe, who knew her, said via email.


“She was … a phenomenal musician, which is what most of the community knew her for,” Rowe said.


A friend and band member, Caroline Clem, said in a statement that news of Johnson’s death was devastating.


“I wish there were words to penetrate the hearts of the people watching or listening (to) the news and to make them understand the kind of person Jillian was,” Clem said. “Jillian made everything more beautiful. She worked to make Lafayette a more beautiful place, and one of the most tragic things that has ever happened here took her. She was a mother, a wife, a sister, an artist, a collaborator, a band member, a friend to so many.”


Kimberly Wooten said the impression Johnson made on people was lasting.


“She was a creative being,” Wooten said. “She made life better, from what she said … from her hand to what she made. Her and her husband are just such a presence here in Lafayette, and Lafayette has become such a better place just for not only Jillian but her entire family.”


The Red Arrow Workshop posted a message on its


“Our hearts are shattered,” the post said. “We will love you forever. She was a once-in-a-lifetime gal. A mother, daughter, sister and a truly exceptional wife. She was an artist, a musician, an entrepreneur and a true renaissance woman. She was the love of my life and I will miss her always.”


Tributes to Johnson appeared on her 


Joseph Savoie, president of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, offered thoughts and prayers for the families and friends of the victims. Johnson graduated from the university in 2004.


“The entire campus mourns the loss of lives in our Lafayette community,” Savoie said in a statement.


The statement said Johnson founded apparel store Parish Ink in downtown Lafayette and River Ranch as well as Red Arrow Workshop in Lafayette and New Orleans. She had been a producer at KRVS, a National Public Radio affiliate on campus.


“Jillian Johnson was a much-loved creative talent known throughout the community,” Savoie said.


She had plans to attend radiology school


Breaux attended Louisiana State University-Eunice, according to LSU President F. King Alexander.


She was supposed to start radiology school at Lafayette General Hospital in the coming days, said David Callecod, president of Lafayette General Health. She toured the hospital and met staff two weeks ago.


“All the folks in this very close-knit community have been affected by the horrific events,” Callecod said, adding that Johnson was well-known to the hospital staff. “We’re very close-knit here at Lafayette General, and we certainly had many ties to the victims as well.”


Breaux also worked at Coco Eros, a women’s clothing store in Lafayette. Her employer posted on Facebook that “many of you had come to know and love Mayci” during her time working there.


“Nothing ever prepares you for a loss… Much less the loss of such an amazing young woman,” 
“We are deeply saddened.”


The store was closed Friday “in memory of our beloved friend,” Breaux’s employer posted on Facebook.


Breaux’s boyfriend of about three years, Matthew Rodriguez, was shot in the neck and armpit, according to his cousin.


“Although he’s in a lot of pain right now, it is nothing compared to the mental anguish he’s going through,” said the cousin, Patrice Rodriguez Picard. “The whole family is completely distraught.”


 killed both women and wounded nine others after opening fire from the back of the theater before shooting himself, Craft said. Authorities said he was a “drifter” from Alabama who had arrived in Lafayette in early July and didn’t appear to know anybody there, much less the victims.


 








Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel


















Leave a Reply 










Enter your comment here...










Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:








































 






Email 
(required)
 
(Address never made public)








Name 
(required)








Website






























 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Twitter account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Facebook account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Google+ account. 
( 
 / 
 )












Connecting to %s










 
Notify me of new comments via email.
 
Notify me of new posts via email.


 








 







			2 comments		










 




It's her body




Wasn’t that a gun free zone? Wish that man would of known that.  The public needs to be educated on gun free zones to prevent this horrible tragedy from happening again. So senseless and sad.
























 




JohnESalisbury




>>>my neighbor’s step-mother makes $83 /hour on the internet . She has been fired from work for 8 months but last month her pay was $19616 just working on the internet for a few hours. site link>>>
..
































 










10p News
At Q13 FOX News, each day is a chance to cover the news that impacts you. 
Q13 FOX News at 10, Seattle’s 10 o’clock news team.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























 
































 












































 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts






















































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































