College Factual for Students 

College Factual for Students




























Find Your Future Faster










Your Natural Strengths & Interests + The Best Fit Colleges & Majors to Amplify Them = YOU WIN!










It's fast, fun and FREE. Get initial results in 5 minutes with QuickMatch.












Achieve Your Full Potential




















Our Purpose is to Help You Fulfill Yours










Find your future faster
 using the hundreds of different fit factors that go into our proprietary matching technology to help identify the 
best fit college and major
 for YOU!










with the best college matching technology there is. It's fast and FREE!




































Best Fit 
Major










Best Fit 
College










Best Fit 
Price




















Customized for Students Like You










Don't accept a "one-size-fits-all" solution.  Get matched based on what you care about with custom matching factors for several different types of students.












"It is a wonderful website that allowed me to find my path in life for college and my degree." 






-Snyder N.










"I found it very helpful in evaluating both the relative fit & value of each school's offer, and in the negotiation of additional aid from several of my son's schools."






-D. Reed










"I used to be nervous about the future but college factual showed how easy it is to find the right place just for me." 






-Ashley S.








































"This process was very insightful to who I am and what I am looking for. The 30 minutes I spent taking the quizzes on this site was better than the hours I spend going back and forward talking to admission advisors about colleges." 






-S. McCray












Company





























	 








Get Started


































Tools


































Resources








































Follow








































© All Rights Reserved. College Factual is a trademark of Media Factual










  |  
 










    
    










    
    
    























































































