Woman thankful for community support following Concord bike path shooting | fox8.com  


Woman thankful for community support following Concord bike path shooting | fox8.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu
































Cleveland












54°






Low 
49°


High 
59°








Akron/Canton












49°






Low 
45°


High 
61°


















 








 




























 








Woman thankful for community support following Concord bike path shooting




Posted 5:44 pm, August 5, 2015, by 
, 
Updated at 08:12pm, August 5, 2015
 




 














 






Please enable Javascript to watch this video




CONCORD TOWNSHIP - A woman, 
, is reaching out on social media to thank the community for all of the support she and her family have received.


Mary Kable, who gave Fox 8 permission to share her post, says she wanted to thank everyone for the prayers.


“Last week my kids and I were able to see God move in big ways,” Kable wrote on her Facebook page. “Due to the case, I am unable to share details. Just know that God is for us! He is real! My children and I were those on the bike path Monday. Our family needed time to process such evil acts.”


Kable was with her children when she was shot July 27 at the Lake Metroparks Greenway Corridor. Lake County officials arrested Emmanuel Razo in connection with the shooting.


Razo’s attorney told the judge Monday that Razo is not a U.S. citizen, does not have a lawful permanent residence in this country and does not have a green card.


Police also believe Razo murdered 60-year-old Margaret “Peggy” Kostelnik in her home July 27. Kostelnik’s home is located near the Greenway Corridor.


Razo is being held in jail.


Kable added in her Facebook post that she will be forever grateful to the doctors, and law enforcement that helped her and her family.


She is also thankful for the support she received from her family, and her church, the Leroy Community Chapel.


“I know so many of you were praying for us even though we were nameless,” Kable wrote in her post. “If I continue to be silent, then I cannot share how God’s provided.”




41.674844


-81.240869








Related stories




























Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










THE RIZZO SHOW
SUNDAY 11PM
Unscripted. Uncensored.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps










































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		5800 South Marginal Road, Cleveland, OH 44103 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WJW		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































