Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com 
Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting

Posted 10:14 am, June 18, 2015, by Tribune Media Wire, Updated at 11:13am, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 


Dylann Storm Roof, 21
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Dylann Roof, 21, of Lexington, S.C., is the suspect in Wednesday’s deadly shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, the Charleston police said Thursday. He may be driving a black Hyundai with vehicle tag LGF330, police said.
Police say he walked into the church and fatally shot nine people as they attended Bible study class.
Witnesses told officials Roof — who is now at the center of a major manhunt, reportedly said he was at the church to shoot black people, a source told CNN.
Police released a flier Thursday morning with details of the suspect in the attack on the historic African-American church as they appealed for help to track him down as quickly as possible.
The suspect’s uncle, Carson Cowles, 56, told Reuters that he recognized the man in the surveillance photo distributed by police as his nephew.
“The more I look at him, the more I’m convinced, that’s him,” Carson Cowles, 56, told Reuters in a phone interview. Cowles also said Roof received a .45-caliber pistol as a birthday present in April.
According to Lexington County School District One, Roof attended White Knoll High School in Lexington, S.C., for one year, WCSC is reporting.


According to Lexington Dist. 1 — Roof attended high school at White Knoll for 1 yr.#CharlestonShooting pic.twitter.com/Wr8RJWVm21
— Lauren Van Liew (@lvanliewlive5) June 18, 2015

According to reports, Roof is currently out on bond in connection with multiple recent arrests on drug and trespassing charges.
“The following subject is wanted for the shooting that occured in Charleston at the Emanuel AME Church. Subject is Dylann Storm Roof w/m 4/3/1994 5’9″ 120 lbs. The subject should be driving a 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS, SC registration LGF330. The vehicle is dark-colored. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous and caution should be used if seen. “
Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen told a news conference that officers “have obtained surveillance videos of the suspect in this case and a suspect vehicle.”
Mullen said the suspect was a “younger white male between 21 and 25 years of age, 5-foot-9 in height” and “has a very distinctive sweatshirt that has markings.”
Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.
Mullen emphasized the suspect is “a very dangerous individual” and said “he should not be approached by anyone.”
Any people who recognize the suspect or spots the vehicle should alert law enforcement, he said, rather than trying to follow themselves.
Woman spared by shooter to give account?
A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.
Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night. Scott added that she didn’t know if the survivor had ended up at the hospital or being questioned by police.
Because of the church’s historic significance, it is not unusual for visitors, whether white or black, to visit it, Scott said. She said she’d had no indication that any children were among the victims.
Mullen told the news conference the suspect had been in the church attending a meeting that was going on — and “stayed there almost an hour with the group before the actual event.”
But he declined to comment on whether the suspect had let one woman escape.
Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.
‘Distinctive’ license plate
The suspect was seen leaving the church in a black four-door sedan, the flier says. “The vehicle you will see has a very distinctive front license plate,” Mullen added.
He appealed for the media to help in circulating the suspect’s image and for the public to be vigilant. The clean-shaven man pictured wears a gray sweatshirt over a white T-shirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.
“No one in this community will ever forget this night and as a result of this and because of the pain and the hurt this individual has caused this entire community, the law enforcement agents are committed and we will catch this individual,” Mullen said.
Charleston Mayor Joe Riley echoed that sentiment, saying everything must be done to find a culprit he described as “somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”
The man is a “no-good, horrible person” who must be taken into custody as soon as possible, he said. “Of course we will make sure he pays the price for this horrible act.”
Wednesday night’s attack at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is being investigated as a hate crime. All the victims, who include the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, were black. Six of those killed were female and three male.


Related stories

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting
SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting
Charleston shooting: 9 killed in ‘hate crime’ shooting at church




Filed in: News Topics: church shooting, Dylann Storm Roof, shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


News

Dashcam video shows arrest of Charleston church shooter in Shelby


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm



 


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?


News

GoFundMe page for sister of accused Charleston church shooter taken down


News

Wedding canceled, sister of accused Charleston shooter asks for donations


News

Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’



 


News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















