Church security a consideration after deadly South Carolina shooting | myfox8.com 
Church security a consideration after deadly South Carolina shooting | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Church security a consideration after deadly South Carolina shooting

Posted 6:46 pm, June 18, 2015, by Natalie Wilson, Updated at 07:04pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





GREENSBORO, N.C. – As the nation grieves for the people in Charleston, churches in the Piedmont are being forced to think about security.
It’s a difficult topic for many churches that want to demonstrate being a place of faith and not fear.
However, one Piedmont man who specializes in church security says the state of the world has local pastors weighing their options.
“The church wants to have that open-door policy and that creates vulnerability in and of itself,” said Greg Leimone, president of Sentinel Consulting Group.
Leimone is a former Greensboro police officer and also served as a security specialist for a FEMA disaster response team.
His company works with a variety of businesses, but also helps local churches build security plans.
“It’s a terrible incident,” Leimone said. “It’s just a time for mourning and prayer for the families, but security is everyone’s responsibility.”
Leimone’s current project is working with a church in High Point to have a strategic plan that includes a lockdown procedure.
“Sunday service, an armed subject comes into the building, how do we evacuate Sunday School, those who are in mass, those who are in meetings in the prayer room, we’ve got nursery going on, how do you manage that?” he asked hypothetically.
He admits the idea of welcoming security is a tough balance.
“Some are very aloof and standoffish about it. They don’t want to feel restricted.”
“We can’t lock it down like Fort Knox,” he added.
Leimone says oftentimes the greatest barrier for churches investing in security is a lack of funding.
Leimone’s hope is that while the world prays for the congregation in Charleston, pastors everywhere will start having conversations with their own members.

36.072635
-79.791975




Filed in: News Topics: South Carolina church shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Security changes at local churches after Charleston massacre


News

Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Officials investigating second fire at black church in South Carolina


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting



 


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?


News

Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’


News

Charleston shooting: 9 killed in ‘hate crime’ shooting at church


News

Dale Jr. says the Confederate flag is ‘offensive to an entire race’



 


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine


News

Dozens gather at Bethel A.M.E. in Greensboro to remember victims of Charleston shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















