‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral on Facebook | myfox8.com 
‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral on Facebook | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral on Facebook

Posted 7:08 am, June 19, 2015, by Web Staff 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





HENRICO COUNTY, Va. — A Virginia gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof is going viral on Facebook.
Years ago musician Marcus Stanley was shot eight times at point-blank range by a gang member, according to WTVR. Stanley said he was left there to die.
He said his own story of survival is a testament to what he knows God can do.
Stanley told WTVR he believes God will bring healing to the families who lost loved ones in the Charleston shooting.
“Words cannot express how painful it is,” Stanley said.  “My heart goes out to the families for the terrible act against their loved ones.”
Stanley said he decided to post a prayer on Roof’s Facebook page in hopes it would reach the suspected killer.
In the post, Stanley encouraged the suspected shooter to try to make amends with God for his actions.
Give your heart to Jesus and confess your sins with a heart of forgiveness. He is the only one that can save your soul and forgive you for the terrible acts you’ve done. I love you Dylan, even in the midst of darkness and pain you’ve caused.
Marcus Stanley’s posts message on Dylan Roof’s Facebook page.
Stanley told WTVR he knew many people wouldn’t understand his message to Roof but decided to post it anyway.
“Instead of attacking, I said let me reach out to him in love. He still has to face the consequences of the law and I’m not denying that, but what I was trying to do was save his soul,” Stanley said.
He said his near-death experience showed him the power of forgiveness.
“I don’t expect the people affected by this tragedy to act like everything’s perfect. It’s a process,” Stanley said.
“There will be tears and there will be laughs and good memories. It’s a healing process. It took me six years to forgive the shooter who shot me.”
He said he hopes the Charleston community will hold to its faith and cling to each other with love.

37.505933
-77.332443




Filed in: News Topics: Charleston 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’


News

New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect



 


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

Wedding canceled, sister of accused Charleston shooter asks for donations


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine



 


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















