Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com 
Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting

Posted 1:58 pm, June 18, 2015, by Stephanie Doyle, Updated at 02:31pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Cynthia Hurd. 


×
Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


 Cynthia Hurd.


The sister of former North Carolina senator Malcolm Graham was among the nine people killed while attending a Bible study inside the Emmanuel AME church in Charleston Wednesday night.
Cynthia Hurd was a librarian at the Charleston Public Library for 31 years. Hurd had “dedicated her life to serving and improving the lives of others,” the Charleston County Public Library system said in a statement.
“Charleston County Public Library is saddened to confirm the loss of one of our own in Wednesday’s shooting at the Mother Emmanuel AME Church,” the statement said. “To honor our co-worker and all those lost, Charleston County Public Library’s 16 locations are closed today, Thursday, June 18, 2015.”
Hurd was the manager of the St. Andrews Regional Library, located a little more than six miles from the church where she was shot and killed.
“My sister, Ms. Cynthia Marie Graham-Hurd, was a victim of the senseless hate crime at Emanuel AME Church. It is unimaginable that she would walk into church and not return,” former Senator Graham said in a statement Thursday. “But that’s who she was – a woman of faith. This is a very difficult time for our family, and Cynthia will be sorely missed.”
“Our family is close-knit, and our faith will see us through. I also extend condolences to the other families of Emanuel AME Church and the city of Charleston who have been affected by this inconceivable tragedy,” he continued. “My family and I appreciate the thoughts and prayers from people across North Carolina and South Carolina.”


Statement from former NC Sen. Malcom Graham on the death of his sister in the #CharlestonShooting pic.twitter.com/PKOsenzOHN
— WBTV News (@WBTV_News) June 18, 2015

Sen. Clementa Pinckney
Also killed was S.C. Sen. Clementa Pinckney, a pastor well-known for fighting racism from the pulpit and with public policy. Sen. Pinckney also was an alum of Allen University in Columbia, S.C.
Another Allen University alum, Tywanza Sanders, was also killed. He was a 2014 graduate. Allen University in a statement described him as a quiet, well-known student who was committed to his education.
“Our hearts and prayers are with the families of these two victims of this senseless act of violence.” – Dr. Lady June Cole, Interim President of Allen University.


Tywanza Sanders was a 2014 business administration grad. #charlestonshooting @wis10 pic.twitter.com/hvEnTczn8a
— Allie Spillyards (@AllieSpillyards) June 18, 2015

A Charleston university said that the mother of one of its students was killed in the church shooting, the Washington Post reported.
“We are especially mourning the loss of Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, the mother of rising sophomore Chris Singleton,” Charleston Southern University President Jairy C. Hunter Jr. said in a statement Thursday.
Chris Singleton is a member of the university’s baseball team, Hunter said. He added that the team’s players and coaches are reeling from the shooting, with the head coach saying Sharonda Coleman-Singleton made an “immeasurable” contribution to the team.

Another killed was Myra Thompson.


Pray for the Rev. Anthony Thompson, Vicar, Holy Trinity REC (ACNA) with the killing of his wife, Myra, in the #CharlestonShooting #Anglican
— ACNA (@The_ACNA) June 18, 2015

Dylan Storm Roof, the 21-year-old man who police say walked into a South Carolina church and fatally shot nine people attending Bible study class, was arrested in Shelby, N.C., on Thursday, about 250 miles from Charleston.



Filed in: News Topics: church shooting, Cynthia HUrd, shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre


News

New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded



 


News

Panthers donate $100k to families of victims in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

High Point church taking up offering for Charleston


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting



 


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

Winston-Salem man’s cousin killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















