Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer | FOX2now.com 
Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer

Posted 8:09 pm, July 11, 2015, by Anthony Kiekow and Paul Schankman 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS, MO (KTVI)- A 16 year old is in serious but stable condition after being shot three times Saturday night by a St. Louis city police officer. The officer says the teenager ran toward him holding a gun.
It began around 7:15pm when officers responded to a call from a housing complex in the 2500 block of Hodiamont. The call came from a woman who said she saw someone she thought had stolen her recently purchased .40-caliber pistol.
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Chief Sam Dotson explained what the officer said happened next, “As the officers responded the subject started to run, saw police officers and turned and ran in another direction. Ran toward officers, the officers saw a gun in his hand, fearing for his safety the officer fired four shots. The subject was struck, a graze wound once in the head, once in the arm, and again the most serious wound is to his stomach.”
The victim’s mother, Antoinette Liggins, told reporter, “It scared me because I lost my 14 year old in `08. She was killed …a little boy was playing with a gun and shot and killed her. And that and that is all I can think about. I don’t want anything to happen to another one of my children, y`know.”
Security cameras belonging to the housing complex caught the shooting on video.  Police said they recovered a gun at the scene.
The police officer who fired is a 29-year-old white male who has been on the force seven years. The shooting will be reviewed by the department’s new Force Investigative Unit.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (6 images)





Inline



 


Chief Sam Dotson’s Press Conference



 

38.678132
-90.282827









Filed in: News Topics: hodimont, officer invovled shooting, st louis police, suspect shot 













 






STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Police investigating officer- involved shooting in St. Louis


News

Family of woman shot by police disputes their story


News

Officer who killed Walter Scott fired; protesters demand justice


News

Teen shot while breaking into vehicles in St. Louis County


News

Slain police: Separated by thousands of miles, united by common dangers



 


News

Housing Authority Officer shoots East St. Louis man in leg


News

Police reportedly shoot Affton ‘Person of Interest’ in Alton


News

Man killed in North St. Louis at gathering


Trending

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect


News

Los Angeles officers who killed Ezell Ford violated policy, civilian board finds



 


News

St. Louis tallies 75th homicide overnight, at least four others shot


News

Walter Scott’s family plans burial as questions swirl in his death


News

Police shoot armed woman in south St. Louis






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















