New witness, dash cam video emerge in South Carolina shooting case | FOX2now.com 
New witness, dash cam video emerge in South Carolina shooting case | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







New witness, dash cam video emerge in South Carolina shooting case

Posted 6:05 am, April 10, 2015, by CNN Wires, Updated at 06:03am, April 10, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 



Now that dash cam video and a new witness account have emerged from the day Walter Scott was shot by a South Carolina police officer, a new question has emerged: Could either affect whether Slager gets convicted of murder?
The dash cam footage shows Slager talking calmly to Scott during a traffic stop for a broken taillight. Scott said he has no insurance on the vehicle, and Slager returns to his car to do paperwork.
Moments later, Scott gets out of his car and bolts. A foot chase ensues. Scott never reappears on the dash cam video, but a witness later takes video of the officer shooting Scott several times in the back as he is running away.
Many say the footage does nothing to justify Slager shooting the unarmed man in the back.
“Nothing in this video demonstrates that the officer’s life or the life of another was threatened,” National Urban League President Marc Morial said. “The question here is whether the use of force was excessive.”
On Thursday, a new witness emerged in the case. Gwen Nichols told CNN’s Brian Todd that she saw a scuffle between Scott and Slager at the entrance to a vacant lot.
“It was like a tussle type of thing, like, you know, like, ‘What do you want?’ or ‘What did I do?’ type of thing,” Nichols said. “I didn’t hear Mr. Slager saying: ‘Stop!’ ”
Feidin Santana, the witness who captured the killing on a cell phone video, has also said he saw a brawl between Scott and Slager.
Criminal defense attorney Paul Callan says he believes Slager’s defense will play up the scuffle in arguing that this is not a murder case.
“Defense attorneys will say this was a heat of passion shooting — (that) this was something that he did suddenly after some kind of an altercation, a physical altercation with a suspect,” Callan said. “And that would constitute manslaughter under law, as opposed to murder, and it makes a huge difference in sentencing.”
In South Carolina, a murder conviction requires “malice or forethought,” Callan said. Some other states say a murder requires premeditation.
Slager, who has been fired from the North Charleston Police Department, faces up to life in prison or the death penalty if he is convicted of murder.
By Holly Yan

Warning- Raw video of shooting:

 



Filed in: News 













 






Antenna TV
KTVI’s digital channel 2.2 shows hit movies and classic TV.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Walter Scott’s family plans burial as questions swirl in his death


News

New audio captures officer ‘laughing’ after deadly South Carolina shooting


News

Officer charged with murder after shooting black man in back: What we know


News

South Carolina shooting: Walter Scott didn’t grab Taser, video witness says


Trending

Police officer charged with murder after shown on video shooting black man in back



 


News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

Officer who killed Walter Scott fired; protesters demand justice


News

South Carolina ex-police officer indicted in Walter Scott killing


News

The Latest: Rally for black man killed by cop draws about 50


News

Cameras roll while police actions go wrong — and right



 


News

Mother of Walter Scott forgives officer who shot him


News

5 things to know for your New Day — Tuesday, April 14


News

‘We would know exactly what happened’ to Freddie Gray with police cameras






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















