Charleston shootings: First CCTV images of suspect wanted for killing nine people at Emanuel AME black church | Metro News 
Charleston shootings: First CCTV images of suspect wanted for killing nine people at Emanuel AME black church | Metro News













This site uses cookies. By continuing, your consent is assumed. Learn more






News... but not as you know it

52.2m shares 
Menu
Home
News

UK
World
Weird
Tech


Sport

Football
Oddballs
Club Metro
Wimbledon 2015
Transfer news
Viral videos


Entertainment

Showbiz
TV
Film
Music
Gaming
Big Brother 2015
One Direction


Lifestyle

Sex
Fashion
Food
Travel


More

Blogs
Competitions
Jobs
Property


Search Metro

Follow us


 

















Charleston shootings: First CCTV images of white man wanted for killing nine people at black church


Jimmy Nsubuga for Metro.co.ukThursday 18 Jun 2015 1:21 pm 











A suspect which police are searching for (Picture: Reuters)
The first images of a white suspect who allegedly killed nine people in a black church have been released.
The man, who is thought to be in his early 20s, ‘opened fire’ during a prayer meeting inside the Emanuel AME Church in downtown Charleston yesterday night.
The assault is being treated as a hate crime.
He managed to flee from police officers attending the chaotic scene but authorities hope to track him down after releasing photographs from a surveillance video.
MORE: 73 per cent of people have discriminated against a potential housemate because they were overweight
Click to enlarge: This document was released (Picture: AFP/Getty Images
Roof has been arrested previously for tresspassing (Picture: Twitter)
They show the suspect and his possible getaway vehicle – a dark coloured sedan.
‘This is a very dangerous individual,’ said police chief Greg Mullen.
‘We want to identify this individual and arrest him before he hurts anyone else.’
MORE: Squid that cuddles for hours after sex sounds like the perfect boyfriend
The scene of the shooting last night (Picture:EPA)
One of the victims was the church’s pastor, and Democratic state senator, Clementa Pinckney.
He was 41 and a married father of two.
The FBI will aid the investigation.
MORE: This man’s daughter has to wear an eye patch – he’s turned it into a brilliant game









More Topless animal rights protesters stages protest against Pamplona bull runDoes this picture prove the Tunisia beach massacre gunman didn’t act alone?Sponsored10 bloggers every girl NEEDS to be followingInside the Ku Klux Klan: How racially divided U.S. is boosting numbersUber has launched an on-demand speedboat serviceTractor almost crashes into rally car not realising there's a race on

Comments 

















 
Must read 











































What's trending nowThis is why we all need to learn Arabic…Girl is banned from flight ‘because she's too ginger’This isn't just any Facebook rant... it's an M&S Facebook rantWhen it's sunny why not head to a beach in, erm, east London?A 101-year-old lady called Doris just became the world's oldest abseiler 

 










					YOU ARE HERE: 
					

World











Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy and Cookies
Site map
 

Your ad choices

© 2015 Associated Newspapers LimitedPowered by WordPress.com VIP





 
 








Get us in your feed
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter






































