Murder charges filed in south city triple shooting | FOX2now.com 
Murder charges filed in south city triple shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Murder charges filed in south city triple shooting

Posted 5:30 am, April 6, 2015, by Rebecca Roberts, Updated at 05:29am, April 6, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





Anthony Altick
ST. LOUIS, MO (KTVI)- A St. Louis man has been charged with murder after a weekend shooting in south city left one man dead and two others injured. Anthony Altick, 27, is in custody. Police say he`s responsible for a triple shooting that happened on Saturday morning at an apartment building on Jamieson and Delor, in St. Louis Hills. Authorities say Altick and at least one of the victims knew each other and the shooting does not appear to be random. Altick was inside of his apartment building and the victims were outside. Investigators say a door was damaged and several shots were fired, striking several victims.
Darryl Simms, 27, of East St. Louis, was killed. A 25 year-old man was shot in the torso. He is in critical condition. A 24 year-old suffered gunshot wounds to his arm and side. He is in serious condition.
Police say a fourth victim ran from the scene.
Now, Altick is charged with 1st degree murder, 2 counts of 1st degree assault, and 3 counts of armed criminal action. He`s being held in the St. Louis City Justice Center with a $750,000 cash-only bond.
This is not Altick`s first run-in with the law. Within the past three years, he has been charged with DWI, burglary, theft, receiving stolen property and he had a protection order filed against him, for stalking.
 

38.627003
-90.199404




Filed in: News 













 






Have a news tip?
Do you have a story you want FOX 2 to investigate?  E-mail us.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

St. Louis tallies 75th homicide overnight, at least four others shot


News

One dead, two wounded in south St. Louis shooting


News

Multiple shootings push murder count to 76 in St. Louis City


News

Suspect charged in Saturday’s deadly shooting in South St. Louis


News

Trio arrested for Shiloh murder



 


News

St. Louis man charged with double murder


News

Juvenile charged with the murder of 16-year-old


News

Police: Suspect charged in Job Corps murder


News

Man charged with fatal shooting of neighbor


News

Man accused of shooting, killing St. Louis homeless man



 


News

Man charged with North St. Louis murder


News

Shooting leaves man in critical condition


News

Duo charged in north county murder






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















