New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting | FOX40 
New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting

Posted 1:19 PM, April 14, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 01:17pm, April 14, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 



NORTH CHARLSTON, South Carolina (CNN)-
Two pieces of audio recorded in the immediate aftermath of a deadly police shooting in South Carolina emerged Monday.
The voice of Michael Slager can be heard in both. The former North Charleston police officer is charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old Walter Scott.
In the first recording, an unidentified officer talks to Slager about what might happen.
“Once they get here, it’ll be real quick. They’re gonna tell you, you’re gonna be off for a couple days and we’ll come back and interview you then. They’re not gonna ask you any type of questions right now. They’re gonna take your weapon,” the officer says. “It’d probably be a good idea to jot down your thoughts about whatever happened … once the adrenaline stops pumping.”
Slager responds: “It’s pumping,” and then laughs.

The second audio, taken from dash cam video from inside a patrol car, captures a phone call between Slager and someone CNN believes is his wife.
He tells her: “Hey. Hey, everything’s OK. OK? I just shot somebody.”
“He grabbed my Taser, yeah. Yeah,” says Slager. “He was running from me. … I’m fine.”
If convicted of murder, the former officer faces up to life in prison or the death penalty, although a death penalty case appears unlikely at this point.
“Based on the facts revealed thus far, it does not appear South Carolina’s death penalty provision applies in this case because there are no statutory ‘aggravating circumstances’ present,” Scarlett A. Wilson, who is the chief prosecutor for the Ninth Judicial Circuit in the state, said on her Facebook page.
Slager was charged after cell phone video emerged, showing him firing at Scott as the man ran away.
Pierre Fulton was riding in a car with Scott before the shooting took place.
“Walter was a dear friend and I miss him every day,” Fulton said in a statement given to ABC News by his lawyer. “Over the past five years he helped me to become a better man and showed me the value of hard work.”
“I’ll never know why he ran, but I know he didn’t deserve to die,” Fulton said. “Please keep Walter and his family in your prayers and respect my privacy moving forward.”
Scott’s death has reignited a national conversation around race and policing. Scott was black; Slager is white.
The case has also brought to light previous instances in which Slager’s behavior on the job is being questioned.
On Monday, attorneys for a man named Julius Wilson announced that they were filing a lawsuit in connection with an August 2014 traffic stop.
During the stop, three officers — including Slager — pulled Wilson out of his car. Wilson was then allegedly shocked with a stun gun. The suit claims Slager used excessive force.
Slager was also named in a police complaint in 2013 after he allegedly “Tased a man for no reason” before slamming him to the ground and dragging him, according to the North Charleston Police Department.
At the time, Slager was searching for a suspect who was described as being 5-feet-5-inches tall. The African-American man he confronted was 6-feet-3 inches tall.
A lawyer for Mario Givens, the man who filed the complaint, said last week that his client plans to file a lawsuit.
Givens said Slager came to his door, ordered him out of the house and then Tased him.
Slager was later cleared in that incident.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News Topics: North Carolina, Walter Scott shooting 













 






FOX40 Rewards
More Ways To Get Points. Join Now!







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












National and World News

South Carolina Police Shooting: Authorities Release Dash Cam Video


National and World News

South Carolina Ex-Police Officer Indicted in Walter Scott Killing


National and World News

Officer Charged with Murder after Video Shows him Shooting Man in Back


National and World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are Jail Neighbors, Police Confirm


Local News

Former Sheriff John McGinness Weighs in on South Carolina Shooting



 


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


News

FBI Investigating Cause of Latest Church Fire


National and World News

Minister: ‘No Evildoer, No Demon’ Can Close Church Targeted by Shooter


Local News

Protesters Take Over the Streets in Stockton


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War



 


Morning

Attorney Ken Rosenfeld Weighs in On South Carolina Police Officer Charged With Murder


Local News

Increased Stockton Police Presence Expected after String of Shootings


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call Hate Crime






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















