Pair charged in Jefferson County shooting, police chase | FOX2now.com 
Pair charged in Jefferson County shooting, police chase | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Pair charged in Jefferson County shooting, police chase

Posted 3:53 pm, April 10, 2015, by Kevin S. Held, Updated at 06:38pm, April 10, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





Carey Williams Jr. and Donald Michaels III. (Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office)
HILLSBORO, MO (KTVI) – The Jefferson County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office charged two men in connection with a home burglary and shooting, culminating in a police chase Thursday afternoon.
According to Jefferson County Sheriff Glenn Boyer, deputies were called to the 6800 block of Old Lemay Ferry Road in Imperial around 4:25 p.m. for a burglary.
A homeowner discovered a broken window after coming back home and heard two people talking inside. The homeowner called over a neighbor and the two entered the residence to investigate. They two found the suspects inside, who shot at them and ran off. The homeowner and his neighbor were not wounded, but a glass pane was shattered and a small shard struck the homeowner in the wrist.
The burglary suspects got into a red Volkswagen and drove away, but the homeowner was able to provide police with a description of the suspect and vehicle.
Just after 4:55 p.m., the burglary suspects pulled into a driveway in the 3500 block of East 4 Ridge Road off Highway 21. A man had just returned home from work when the suspects pulled in behind him. They asked him about a dog and then shot at him. The victim in this incident was wounded in the shoulder.
The victim was taken to a local hospital to be treated and eventually released.
Sheriff Boyer said deputies stopped the Volkswagen around 5:10 p.m. in the area of Brookstone Drive. When one of the deputies got out of their vehicle, the suspects drove off. Authorities chased the suspects into the Brookshire Trailer Park. The suspects shot out the rear window of their own vehicle to fire at law enforcement. Deputies were not injured.
The chase continued along Highway 21 to Mattis Road. The suspects eventually crashed near an apartment complex on Summit Knoll Drive and were arrested.
The two suspects were identified as 34-year-old Donald Michaels III and 24-year-old Carey Williams Jr., both of House Springs. They were each charged with one count of first-degree burglary, three counts of first-degree assault, four counts of armed criminal action, one count of second-degree assault on a law enforcement officer, and one count of resisting arrest.
Michaels and Williams remain jailed on $1 million cash-only bond each.
 


Lesson learned: shooting at innocent people, cops, stealing, etc. won't end well for you & your getaway car. pic.twitter.com/oGANH8vG3a
— Rebecca Roberts (@RRobertsTV) April 10, 2015


38.232277
-90.562903



Related stories

Two in custody following shooting, police chase




Filed in: News Topics: carey williams Jr, Crime, Donald Michaels III 













 






Antenna TV
KTVI’s digital channel 2.2 shows hit movies and classic TV.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Two in custody following shooting, police chase


News

Trio arrested for Florissant burglary, vehicle theft


News

Gerald man arrested on burglary charge


News

Estranged husband kills wife’s boyfriend, himself in Jefferson County


News

Man shot in chest after argument, suspect claims victim was armed



 


News

SUV slams into Ferguson home after police chase


News

3 suspects charged in Tuesday’s police chase into downtown St. Louis


News

Trio arrested for Shiloh murder


News

Police say career criminal recently released from prison is arrested again


News

Explosive device found during burglary investigation



 


News

Children found in suspect’s car after I-55 police chase


News

Columbine High School Shootings Fast Facts


News

Teens arrested and charged for elementary school break-in






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















