Suspect Identified in Fatal Shooting Outside Stockton Church | FOX40 
Suspect Identified in Fatal Shooting Outside Stockton Church | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Suspect Identified in Fatal Shooting Outside Stockton Church

Posted 4:32 PM, July 1, 2015, by Genny McLaren 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


STOCKTON —
Christopher Ray Bryant (Courtesy: Stockton Police Dept.)
Police have released the identity of the suspect they believe shot and killed a man outside a church near Church and Ash streets.
The victim, identified as 41-year-old Michael Hughes, allegedly got into a verbal argument with the suspect, Christopher Ray Bryant, police said.
Police said they believe the argument escalated and Bryant ultimately allegedly shot and killed Hughes.
Bryant, 38, is described as being 5-feet-9-inches tall and weighs about 200 pounds. He has brown hair and brown eyes. He was last seen wearing a brown shirt and blue shorts. His hair is long and reaches his lower back. He has a large scar on his left leg, a Raiders logo tattoo on his right forearm, a tattoo of praying hands on his left hand, XIV on his right arms and a skull and crossbones tattooed on his right hand.
Bryant is still at large.
The Stockton Police Department is encouraging citizens to call if they have information pertaining to this investigation. Callers are asked to call the Stockton Police Department at (209) 937-8377, the Investigations Unit at (209) 937-8323 or Crime Stoppers at (209) 946-0600. Callers can remain anonymous.
Citizens may also text information from their cell phones to ‘Crimes’ (274637) and type the keyword TIPSPD and then their tip or logon to the Stockton Police Department’s Facebook page and click ‘Submit A Tip’. Tipsters may also send tips on the Stockton PD Mobile Phone App. Tipsters can remain anonymous.


Related stories

Man Shot to Death in Front of Stockton Church




Filed in: Local News 













 






 Join FOX40 Tonight at 10
Watch on FOX40 News at 10







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












Local News

Marysville Police Investigate Fight, Shooting


National and World News News

Dallas Police HQ Attack: Suspect Believed Killed During Standoff


National and World News

Judge Says of Dallas Suspect: ‘I Knew He Was Going to do Something’


Local News

Suspects Accused of Burglary, Killing Tire Shop Employee Arraigned


Local News

Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal



 


Local News

Man Shot to Death in Front of Stockton Church


Local News

UPDATE: Brothers Accused of Stabbing Man to Death in Stockton


Local News

Protesters Take Over the Streets in Stockton


Local News

Police Investigate Fatal Machete Stabbing at Modesto Park


Local News

Suspect Identified in Assault of Elderly Woman in Grass Valley



 


Local News

Suspected Subway Shooter Taken into Custody


Local News News

Naked Citrus Heights Man Arrested After Allegedly Stabbing Wife


Local News

Man Pleads Guilty in Hit and Run Crash that Killed Retired Stockton Cop






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















