Turlock Police Investigating Possible Drug Relating Shooting | FOX40 
Turlock Police Investigating Possible Drug Relating Shooting | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Turlock Police Investigating Possible Drug Related Shooting

Posted 6:05 PM, July 3, 2015, by Kay Recede 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





TURLOCK —
A 22-year-old Turlock man is dead following a Thursday night shooting. On Friday, investigators were looking into whether nearly 200 pot plants found inside a home near the scene played a role in this tragedy.
Police officers said they received calls of a drive-by shooting near the intersection of Linwood Avenue and Baywood Lane around 11:30 p.m. That’s where they found the victim, Marcus Culebro. Investigators also found another man who was tied and beaten.
An empty beer can lay next to where police say Marcus Culebro took his last breath. The 22-year-old was shot Thursday after 11 p.m. when he and some friends arrived at a house near Linwood Avenue and Baywood Lane.
“It sounded like they were lighting fireworks at first,” Beno Garcia explained.
Neighbor Beno Garcia said he was watching TV at his home when he mistook the deadly shooting for a celebration, “I heard a commotion outside, I heard a car screech away and that’s when I decided to look outside,” the resident said, “I saw the guy lying under the tree and he had blood coming out of the neck, shoulder area.”
The Turlock Police Department claimed Culebro did not live here. Investigators are trying to piece together who is behind tragedy and what motivated the shooter.
“It’s an active investigation and we’ve received conflicting reports on the amount of suspects so we’re still trying to find that out,” Sgt. Stephen Webb, a Spokesman with the Turlock Police Department said.
As soon as officers checked the home, they found a man bound and beaten, “He was pretty shook up and he gave us limited information so he will be re-interviewed.”
Plus, 190 marijuana plants. Investigators said they’re unsure if the drugs are related to the deadly incident, “I never knew about the marijuana plants but that helps explain the traffic at night. People leaving the house, coming and going,” Garcia told FOX40.
If you have any information please contact the Turlock Police Department or Crimestoppers.



Filed in: Local News 













 






FOX40 Rewards
More Ways To Get Points. Join Now!







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












News

Man Killed in Front of Turlock Home, Police Find Marijuana Grow Inside


Local News

Turlock Man Shot to Death


Local News

Suspect Killed in Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton


Local News

Man Shot, Killed in Oak Park Home


Local News

Man in Critical Condition After Shooting in Fairfield



 


Local News

Suspected Subway Shooter Taken into Custody


Local News

UPDATE: Two Killed in Separate Incidents in Stockton


Local News

Suspect in Carmichael Shooting, Standoff Identified


Local News

Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal


Local News

Police Investigate Fatal Shooting in North Sacramento



 


Local News

Turlock Teen Found Safe, Alleged Abductor Arrested in Las Vegas


National and World News

Source: New York Escapee Richard Matt Shot, Killed by Police; Sweat Being Pursued


Local News

Police Investigate Triple Shooting in Fairfield






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















