Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder | Fox 59 
Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder

Posted 6:11 AM, June 19, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 10:41am, June 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 



CHARLESTON, S.C. (June 19, 2015) — Charleston shooting suspect Dylann Roof is charged with nine counts of murder and possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime for this week’s shooting at a historically black church in the city.
He confessed to the shootings in interviews with the Charleston police and FBI, two law enforcement officials told Evan Perez and Wesley Bruer of CNN, the first network to report this development. He also told investigators he wanted to start a race war, one of those officials said.
For Roof’s friends, talk of sparking a race war or wanting segregation reinstated was nothing new.
But then again, they didn’t think he was serious.
After all, they had known him for years.
“He never targeted a specific black person,” his roommate Joey Meek told ABC News. “He never did any of that, so it was just pretty much a shock.”
Meek didn’t take his claims about Roof to authorities before Thursday morning, the day after nine people were killed at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, ABC reported.
Roof is now in custody, having been caught by police about 245 miles (395 kilometers) away from the carnage in Shelby, North Carolina.
Friends and family
John Mullins, who attended White Knoll High School with Roof, told CNN on Thursday that the suspect was “kind of wild” but not violent.
“That’s why all this is such a shock,” Mullins said.
The classmate recalled Roof occasionally making racist comments, though he appeared to have black friends at the same time.
“They were just racist slurs in a sense,” he said. “He would say it just as a joke. … I never took it seriously, but now that he shed his other side, so maybe they should have been taken more seriously.”
Roof repeated the ninth grade at the Lexington County high school, said Mary Beth Hill of the Lexington School District, west of Columbia, South Carolina. She said he was “very transient,” that he “came and went.”
In a Washington Post interview, Roof’s uncle, Carson Cowles, said his mother “never raised him to be like this.”
Police are investigating the shooting as a hate crime.
“The whole world is going to be looking at his family who raised this monster,” Cowles told the Post. “I’d be the executioner myself if they would allow it.”
Before opening fire
Roof spent about an hour at the historic African-American church before the massacre, attending the prayer meeting with his eventual victims, Charleston police Chief Greg Mullen said.
Witnesses told investigators the gunman stood up and said he was there “to shoot black people,” a law enforcement official said.
He answered one man’s plea to stop by shooting him, said Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the church’s slain pastor who has talked to a survivor.
“‘No, you’ve raped our women, and you are taking over the country,” he said, according to Johnson. “… I have to do what I have to do.”
Investigators are looking into whether Roof had links to white supremacist or other hate groups, a law enforcement official said. There’s no indication so far that he was known to law enforcement officials who focus on hate groups.
In an image tweeted by authorities in Berkeley County, South Carolina, Roof is seen wearing a jacket with the flags of apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that a white minority ruled until it became independent in 1980 and changed its name to Zimbabwe.
Banned from mall
The months leading up to the shooting were a mix of troubling and odd.
Police in his hometown of Columbia — about 120 miles northwest of Charleston — obtained a warrant for his arrest in early March. He had been picked up on drug charges a few days earlier at Columbiana Centre mall, according to a police report.
Workers at two stores told mall security that Roof was acting strangely, asking “out of the ordinary questions,” the police report said.
Roof initially said he wasn’t carrying anything illegal. But he agreed to be searched, and an officer found “a small unlabeled white bottle containing multiple orange … square strips” in his jacket, the police report said.
They turned out to be Suboxone, which is used to treat opiate addiction, according to the police report. Roof said he got the strips from a friend.
He was arrested on a drug possession charge that day in late February, but it’s unclear why the March 1 arrest warrant was issued.
On April 26, police were again called to Columbiana Centre because Roof, who had been banned from the mall for a year after his drug arrest, had returned, the police report said. The ban was extended to three years after his second arrest.
The gun
Roof turned 21 in April, and a short time later he had a gun.
On Thursday, investigators did a trace of the handgun used in Wednesday’s shooting and determined that it was a .45-caliber handgun Roof purchased from a Charleston gun store in April, two law enforcement officials told CNN’s Perez and Bruer.
His grandfather says Roof was given “birthday money” and that the family didn’t know what he did with it.


Related stories

Woman who helped police catch Charleston church shooting suspect credits divine intervention
Charleston shooting victims’ names released
Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Widow shocked to see husband’s death featured on reality show



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle







 


Latest News



Morgan County residents clean up after flash flooding overtakes homes and creates a muddy mess



Closing arguments to begin Monday morning in Richmond Hill Trial



New Mexico Amber Alert teen found safe in Indianapolis, suspect in custody



Tornado rips through Johnson County; damage repairs underway





 












News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice,’ bond set at $1 million


Crimetracker News

Family of Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof speaks for the first time


News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof


National & World News

Charleston shooting victims’ names released



 


News

Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


National & World News

Dash cam video shows Charleston shooting suspect’s arrest in North Carolina


National & World News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


National & World News

Woman who helped police catch Charleston church shooting suspect credits divine intervention


National & World News

Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime



 


National & World News

Dylann Roof’s family: We’ll answer questions later


National & World News

South Carolina officer charged with murder of unarmed man


National & World News

WATCH: President Obama sings ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















