Police searching for suspects in shootout, collision in Winston-Salem | myfox8.com 
Police searching for suspects in shootout, collision in Winston-Salem | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police searching for suspects in shootout, collision in Winston-Salem

Posted 12:18 pm, July 10, 2015, by Web Staff, Updated at 12:19pm, July 10, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 



×
Police searching for suspects in shootout, collision in Winston-Salem


 


WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — Police are searching for suspects in a shootout that ended in a collision in Winston-Salem early Friday morning.
The collision happened on northbound U.S. 52 at North Patterson Avenue just after 7 a.m.
An investigation revealed that the passengers of a gold Hyundai Elantra and a teal/green/blue Volkswagen Jetta began shooting at each other near 14th Street and Cameron Avenue.
The Hyundai then fled onto U.S. 52 and the Jetta followed, as passengers in both vehicles exchanged gunfire.
Both vehicles then exited northbound U.S. 52 onto Patterson Avenue.
The Hyundai ran a stop sign at the end of the exit and collided with a maroon-colored van.
Officials said the driver of the Hyundai and the front passenger fled the scene on foot.
The rear passengers of the Hyundai remained on scene. One of the passengers was transported to Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center with non-life threatening injuries.
The Jetta also fled the scene after the wreck.
Police are still looking for the driver and passengers of the Jetta as well as the passengers who fled from the Hyundai.
The investigation into this matter is continuing.
Anyone with information concerning this incident is asked to contact the Winston-Salem Police Department at (336) 773-7700 or Crime Stoppers at (336) 727-2800.

36.099860
-80.244216




Filed in: News Topics: shootout 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Update: US 52 southbound in Winston-Salem reopens after wreck involving tractor-trailer


News

2 sought for armed robbery of Winston-Salem business


News

Details: Suspect in custody after police chase in Winston-Salem


News

Man dies from injuries in weekend crash in Winston-Salem


News

Lexington man leads police on chase, crashes into 2 patrol cars



 


News

Police looking for 2 men in Winston-Salem gunfight


News

Winston-Salem man arrested after robbery, car and foot chase


News

Woman follows alleged robber in Winston-Salem, gets shot at


News

4-vehicle wreck on I-40 in Winston-Salem


News

2 in custody following assault, police chase in Winston-Salem



 


News

Motorcyclist injured in collision with vehicle in Winston-Salem


News

Unmarked Winston-Salem police car involved in wreck on US 421


News

Tractor-trailer rolls over in Winston-Salem, road now open






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















