Indy church members pray for victims in Charleston church shooting | Fox 59 
Indy church members pray for victims in Charleston church shooting | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Indy church members pray for victims in Charleston church shooting

Posted 9:37 PM, June 18, 2015, by Nicole Pence, Updated at 11:49pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





(June 18, 2015) — Thursday evening church members in Indianapolis gathered to show their support for the victims in the Charleston Church shooting rampage. 
St. John African Methodist Episcopal Church is part of the same predominantly black religious organization as the historic church in Charleston that came under attack Wednesday night.
“There is comfort in prayers. We hope to be strengthen in prayer,” explained Pastor Lenore Williams with St. John African Methodist Episcopal Church.
Religious leaders from many backgrounds came to the prayer service.
“When we read about passages in the scriptures. That say when one mourns the other weeps. We feel like we have lost family member,” said Williams.
Church member Pearla Gholdston attended a service at the Charleston church and met Pastor Pinckney just last year.
“I was saddened and deeply and almost went into shock. I could not believe it.  It was difficult for me to sleep last night because of my knowledge of him,” said Gholdston.
Pastor Pinckney, who was also a state senator, was one of nine people killed.
The FBI is investigating this shooting rampage as a hate crime.
“For that violence to take place in the sanctuary directed at people for their color of skin. It is sad.  We are going to pray. All of us are God`s children,” said Pastor Lenore Williams with St. John African Methodist Episcopal Church.
The shootings come as Indianapolis is preparing to host two prominent African Methodist Episcopal conferences next month.
Organizers tell our partners at the Indy Star they are planning a prayer service for the shooting victims.



Filed in: News, NewsPoint 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Widow shocked to see husband’s death featured on reality show



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle







 


Latest News



Morgan County residents clean up after flash flooding overtakes homes and creates a muddy mess



Closing arguments to begin Monday morning in Richmond Hill Trial



New Mexico Amber Alert teen found safe in Indianapolis, suspect in custody



Tornado rips through Johnson County; damage repairs underway





 












News NewsPoint

Indianapolis church congregation says lowering of SC Confederate flag is historic for all Americans


National & World News

Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime


News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


News

Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


National & World News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre



 


National & World News

WATCH: President Obama sings ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


National & World News

Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder


National & World News

FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice,’ bond set at $1 million


National & World News What's Trending

Sister of alleged Charleston shooter starts GoFundMe campaign to pay for ‘dream honeymoon’



 


Crimetracker News

Family of Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof speaks for the first time


National & World News

Confederate flag lowered from South Carolina Capitol


News

Pastors expect heightened security after shooting at South Carolina church






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















