After Charleston Shooting, a Sense at the White House of Horror, Loss and Resolve - The New York Times 



After Charleston Shooting, a Sense at the White House of Horror, Loss and Resolve - The New York Times







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Politics|After Charleston Shooting, a Sense at the White House of Horror, Loss and Resolve
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1BqKp2k




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Politics 
After Charleston Shooting, a Sense at the White House of Horror, Loss and Resolve

By PETER BAKERJUNE 18, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Continue reading the main story
Video

Full Speech: Obama on Charleston Attack

The president spoke on Thursday about the church shooting in Charleston, S.C., and expressed his “deep sorrow over the senseless murders that took place” Wednesday night.

                By AP on                                                    Publish Date June 18, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times.
                            
Watch in Times Video »





Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
WASHINGTON — The shooting massacre of a black pastor and his parishioners at a South Carolina church on Wednesday night once again confronted President Obama with a moment of racial turmoil in a country that for all its progress has yet to completely shed the burden of hatred and division.After a series of police shootings, protests and riots, this latest eruption of violence reflected a country on edge and a president struggling to pull the American people together. Any hopes of what supporters once called a “postracial” era now seem fanciful as Mr. Obama’s second term increasingly focuses on what he termed “a dark part of our history.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Dylann Roof, Suspect in Charleston Shooting, Flew the Flags of White PowerJUNE 18, 2015












Church Massacre Suspect Held as Charleston GrievesJUNE 18, 2015












Recalling Nine Spiritual Mentors, Gunned Down During Night of DevotionJUNE 18, 2015












Killings Add Painful Page to Storied History of Charleston ChurchJUNE 18, 2015












Many Ask, Why Not Call Church Shooting Terrorism?JUNE 18, 2015







In a pattern that has become achingly familiar to him and the nation, Mr. Obama on Thursday entered the White House briefing room to issue a statement of mourning and grief as he called on the country to unify in the face of tragedy. This time, though, the ritual was made all the more poignant because Mr. Obama knew the Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, the pastor slain at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., as well as other members of the congregation.“This is not the first time that black churches have been attacked, and we know that hatred across races and faiths pose a particular threat to our democracy and our ideals,” Mr. Obama said. “The good news is I am confident that the outpouring of unity and strength and fellowship and love across Charleston today from all races, from all faiths, from all places of worship indicates the degree to which those old vestiges of hatred can be overcome.”If those words of optimism were belied by his own grim face and subdued tone, perhaps it reflected a certain weariness or frustration over the limits of his ability to change the nation he leads. He grew especially pointed when he noted that this was the latest in a spate of mass shootings, and lamented what he called the easy access to guns, an issue he has tried and failed to address with legislation.“At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries,” Mr. Obama said. He added: “It is in our power to do something about it. I say that recognizing the politics in this town foreclose a lot of the avenues right now. But it would be wrong for us not to acknowledge it. And at some point it’s going to be important for the American people to come to grips with it.”
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
To many, including the president, the shootings echoed the bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Ala., in 1963 that killed four young black girls. Mr. Obama quoted extensively from the eulogy delivered then by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.In that speech, Dr. King expressed hope that the tragedy would “transform the negative extremes of a dark past into the positive extremes of a bright future.”Mr. Obama’s election seemed to promise a brighter future in race relations, but events of recent years appear to mock that hope. The 1963 bombing reflected a broad campaign of white resistance to civil rights, and this week’s shootings represented a violent fringe condemned by whites and blacks alike. Yet Charleston now joins Ferguson, Mo., Staten Island and Baltimore in putting the nation’s unfinished business back on the agenda.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
By virtue of his own background, Mr. Obama has addressed these episodes with a personal perspective none of his predecessors in the White House ever could. But easy solutions elude him, just as they did them. Even his responses have generated criticism on cable television and talk radio from those saying his rhetoric itself has been divisive, fanning the flames of the racial divide by blaming the police or white America.“Part of what I take from this is on the one hand the realization that this struggle still continues and despite profound change there is still profound hatred,” said Lonnie G. Bunch, the founding director of the National Museum of African-American History and Culture, set to open in Washington next year. “It is a fundamentally different country. It’s a country that has changed in ways that are amazing. But it is still a country that is torn apart by race.”Mr. Obama has spent much of the final years of his administration addressing race in a more expansive way than he did in his first term, because of stark events as well as because of the anniversaries of important moments in the civil rights movement. He has started an initiative called My Brother’s Keeper to help young Latino and African-American men, and advanced policies in education, criminal justice and economics that are devised in part to address the racial divide.Yet in the end, he has run into the same limitations that other presidents have encountered. “The president has the power of the bully pulpit but his authority to affect change is very limited, at least on his own,” said Judith A. Winston, who was the executive director of former President Bill Clinton’s race initiative in the late 1990s.The challenge, Ms. Winston said, is even more complex for Mr. Obama than it was for Mr. Clinton. “He’s in a very difficult position politically,” she said. “My sense is there’s been not much conversation or policy action that’s been explicitly directed at racial bias because of concerns that it would be seen as favoring people of his own race.”Joshua DuBois, a former director of faith-based initiatives in Mr. Obama’s White House, said the president could not change deeply embedded attitudes by himself. “Hopefully most reasonable folks in the country are clear that he is doing all that is within his power to address issues of race in this country,” Mr. DuBois said. “But at the same time, he does not have a magic wand to fix issues that have been lying dormant and unaddressed for a long time.”The shootings in Charleston hit close to home in the White House, where Mr. Pinckney, a state senator, was known. Mr. Obama immediately recognized the name when he was informed about the victims. “They met and formed a bond back in 2007 when they were campaigning early on in the president’s effort to get to the White House,” said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman. “And that bond was strong enough to endure all the way until today.”Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who appeared with Mr. Obama in the White House briefing room, said later that he last saw Mr. Pinckney less than a year ago at a prayer breakfast in South Carolina. “He was a good man, a man of faith, a man of service,” Mr. Biden said in a written statement.In Mr. Obama’s televised remarks, he noted the long history of the Charleston church. “Mother Emanuel church and its congregation have risen before — from flames, from an earthquake, from other dark times — to give hope to generations of Charlestonians,” Mr. Obama said. “And with our prayers and our love, and the buoyancy of hope, it will rise again now as a place of peace.”


A version of this article appears in print on June 19, 2015, on page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: A Sense at the White House of Horror, Loss and Resolve .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












