‘Hate will not win': Victims’ families tell suspected church shooter they forgive him | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
‘Hate will not win': Victims’ families tell suspected church shooter they forgive him | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Replay: PIX11 News   

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events




Weather 

78°







78°


Low 73°
High 87°





Mon


					72°  84°
					


Tue


					74°  80°
					


Wed


					72°  86°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







‘Hate will not win': Victims’ families tell suspected church shooter they forgive him

Posted 3:02 PM, June 19, 2015, by Samantha Tata, Updated at 05:28pm, June 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 





SOUTH CAROLINA — Family members of the nine men and women gunned down in a historically black church by a gunman who allegedly wanted to start a “race war” spoke directly to the 21-year-old Friday accused of killing their loved ones, saying they forgive him.
“I forgive you. You took something very precious away from me,” a daughter of Ethel Lance said. “I will never be able to hold her again, but I forgive you. And have mercy on your soul. You hurt me. You hurt a lot of people but God forgives you, and I forgive you.”
Felicia Sanders — the mother of Tywanza Sanders — said in court that “every fiber in my body hurts, and I will never be the same.” She called the victims “some of the most (beautiful) people that I know.”
“As we said in the Bible study, we enjoyed you,” she said of shooter Dylann Roof. “But may God have mercy on you.”



Daniel Simmons Sr.’s granddaughter told the man accused of killing her grandfather: “Hate will not win.”
Roof appeared before a judge via video conference, for security reasons, and showed little reaction or emotion when addressed by the victims’ loved ones. He is accused of nine counts of murder and possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime, police in South Carolina said.
Magistrate James B. Gosnell set Roof’s bond related to the firearms charge for $1 million. Only a circuit court judge can set bond on the suspect’s murder charges. Roof will remain in custody. He will be represented by Ashley Pennington, the head of the public defender’s office appointed to the task.



The suspected gunman confessed to investigators that he opened fire Wednesday evening inside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, CNN reports. He allegedly told them he had wanted to start a race war.
A survivor who was inside the church when shots rang out said Roof answered one man’s pleas to stop by saying, “No, you’ve raped our women, and you are taking over the country … I have to do what I have to do.”
A friend recalled a drunken Roof ranting one night about his unspecified six-month plan “to do something crazy” in order “to start a race war.” And the Berkeley County, South Carolina, government tweeted a picture of him in a jacket with flags from apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that was ruled by a white minority until it became independent in 1980.
After the massacre inside the church, the gunman hopped in a car and headed north, investigators said. He was spotted by a woman heading to work who called police then trailed him for more than 30 miles, keeping authorities updated along the way.
Police in Shelby, N.C., — about 245 miles from Charleston — pulled over Roof and took him into custody.
The federal Department of Justice is probing the attack as a hate crime.
CNN contributed to this report.





PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]


PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit


DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says


New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]




Filed in: News 













 






Watch The CW Now!
See last night’s episodes now on The CW







 

 


Popular



Drug cartel leader Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman escapes from prison for second time



Father charged with abandoning 3-year-old daughter at Harlem Subway



Scientists baffled by mysterious creature with ‘beak’ and ‘fur’ that washed ashore



North Carolina beach has 2 shark incidents in same day







 


Latest News



Shoppers say goodbye to iconic FAO Schwarz flagship store



2 teens shot near Brooklyn Museum: NYPD



Nintendo President Satoru Iwata dies at 55



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev: ‘I am sorry for the lives that I have taken’


News

Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre



 


News

NYPD detective who fired first shot asks Sean Bell’s parents to forgive him


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


New Jersey News

One of the victims in South Carolina church massacre has ties to New Jersey


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings



 


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,974 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















