Local faith leaders express grief, disappointment over fatal South Carolina church shooting | fox13now.com 
Local faith leaders express grief, disappointment over fatal South Carolina church shooting | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: Sports Page 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

81°







81°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					67°  91°
					


Tue


					66°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Local faith leaders express grief, disappointment over fatal South Carolina church shooting

Posted 5:41 pm, June 18, 2015, by Max Roth 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





SALT LAKE COUNTY, Utah — Grief, anger and disappointment are a few of the words two Utah pastors used to describe their responses to a mass murder at Emmanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church that left nine people dead in Charleston, SC.
Rev. Jerrod Lowry of Community of Grace Presbyterian Church in Sandy lived in Charleston as a child and teenager.
“I’m a Southerner,” Lowry said, “and if I were back home I’d say, ‘I felt some kind of way.’ That’s our way of saying it’s a ball of emotions. I was angry, I was upset, I was disappointed, I was scared. But then there was also a twinge of something that has to be hope.”
Rev. France Davis, is the longtime pastor of Utah’s largest traditionally black congregation at Calvary Baptist Church in Salt Lake City.
“Although the act of violence occurred miles away across the country, it’s possible it could occur here. Dr. Martin Luther King said, ‘injustice anywhere is injustice everywhere,'” Davis said.
Both men say they hope the shooting bring attention to the problem of violence in the U.S., with Lowry saying he will respond by participating in a rally against gun violence sponsored by Utah’s Episcopal Diocese on June 28.



Filed in: News Topics: calvary baptist church, community of grace presbyterian church, Rev. France Davis, rev. jerrod lowry, south carolina church shooting 













 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students







 


Latest News



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship



Utah teacher returns with lessons learned at space academy for educators





 












News

Prayer vigil for Charleston shooting victims held in SLC


News

Vigil in Salt Lake City honors victims of shooting in Charleston


News

Minister: “No evildoer, no demon” can close church targeted by shooter


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested



 


News

Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect in mass shooting


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Bishops lead march in Salt Lake City against gun violence


News

Episcopalian Church votes to approve religious marriage ceremonies for same-sex couples



 


News Politics

Pres. Obama brings up gun control issue while addressing US about Charleston shooting


News

Watch as activist takes down Confederate flag outside S.C. State House, gets arrested


News

Elder L. Tom Perry of LDS Church’s Quorum of the Twelve dies at 92






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,102 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















