Judge finds Cleveland police officer not guilty of all counts in deadly shooting | FOX2now.com 
Judge finds Cleveland police officer not guilty of all counts in deadly shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Judge finds Cleveland police officer not guilty of all counts in deadly shooting

Posted 10:38 am, May 23, 2015, by Staff Writer, Updated at 11:35am, May 23, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 


CLEVELAND – After a lengthy explanation, an Ohio judge found Officer Michael Brelo not guilty of voluntary manslaughter in the shooting deaths of two people in Cleveland in 2012 following a police pursuit.
WJW-TV reports that Cuyahoga County Judge John O’Donnell made the announcement Saturday morning. Brelo was also found not guilty of felonious assault in the case.
Brelo, who is white, was charged with two counts of voluntary manslaughter for the deaths of Timothy Russell, 43, and Malissa Williams, 30, both of whom are black. Both were unarmed at the time of  the shooting.


O’Donnell using dummies to describe where both Russell and Williams were shot: pic.twitter.com/zWpNv1DzyJ
— fox8news (@fox8news) May 23, 2015

Closing arguments in the month-long trial were presented on May 5..
On Nov. 29, 2012, a Cleveland Police officer thought he heard a gunshot while he was outside of his cruiser near the Cuyahoga County Justice Center, and pursued a blue car. The resulting police chase lasted 22 minutes, and involved more than 60 police cars and more than a hundred officers.
The chase ended at a high school parking lot, where numerous officers fired a total of 137 shots at Russell’s 1979 Chevrolet Malibu. Investigators from the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation said 49 of those shots came from Officer Brelo’s Glock 17. His final 15 shots were fired from the hood of the suspect’s car.
For continuing coverage, please visit FOX8.com

41.499320
-81.694361




Filed in: News 













 






STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Protests follow acquittal of Cleveland police officer


News

Cleveland protesters appear in court


News

Cleveland community leaders to ask judge for murder charges in Tamir Rice case


News

DOJ to review Cleveland police shooting


News

Judge rules there’s evidence to charge Cleveland officers in Tamir Rice shooting



 


News

Tamir Rice report: No proof police officer shouted warning before shooting


News

Tamir Rice death investigation complete


News

171 days after Tamir Rice shooting, sheriff says probe almost done


News

Attorney: Man accused in Ferguson shooting to stay jailed


News

Slain police: Separated by thousands of miles, united by common dangers



 


News

Aaron Hernandez case: Who’s who?


News

4 charged in killings of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, policemen to appear in court


Trending

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















