Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars | fox13now.com 
Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: Sports Page 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

81°







81°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					67°  91°
					


Tue


					66°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars

Posted 11:01 am, June 5, 2015, by David Wells 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars


 


WEST VALLEY CITY — Police arrested a suspect after a brief chase in West Valley City Thursday night.
According to West Valley City police, it started when the Metro Gang Unit recognized the suspect and contacted WVCPD for assistance in arresting him.
“Our patrol car attempted to stop the suspect. They didn’t pull right over. They pulled into the neighhorhood. When they did pull over, both the driver and the suspect fled from the vehicle,” said Lt. Dalan Taylor, West Valley City Police Department. “A short foot pursuit ensued and officers were able to track down both of the suspects.”
At one point during the pursuit, an officer from the Unified Police Department was involved in an accident.
“When the suspects fled, there was actually three or four patrol cars that were here. One of the Unified officers backed up to head around the corner to head the suspect off, didn’t see a vehicle which was stopped behind him at a stop sign and backed into that car,” Taylor said.”There’s […] a complaint of minor injuries in the vehicle that got hit and that Unified officer did end up going to the hospital with some minor injuries.”
Police arrested Richard Trujillo in connection with the incident.
Trujillo faces charges of possession of amphetamine, failure to stop at the command of a law enforcement officer, possession of drug paraphernalia, distribution of a controlled substance, possessing or receiving stolen property and fleeing.



Filed in: News Topics: crime, police chase, west valley city 








			1 Comment		




 

ANOTHERBOB

Hopefully they’ll throw the book at this drug dealing puke.  There is no place for Mr. Trujillo in decent society.




							June 5, 2015 at 12:03 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City


News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests


News

Shoplifting suspect evades officers during chase, rams squad car to escape


News

Two gang members arrested in SLC; one accused of attacking police dog


News

Man arrested after assaulting WVC officer, fleeing, police say



 


News

Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody


News

Man swaps old shoes for new pair then hits, injures employee while escaping in vehicle


News

Heavily intoxicated man leads police on high-speed chase, rams several cars in the process


News

Two in custody, two outstanding, one injured after neighbors intervene in home burglary


News

Cottonwood Heights police locate large amount of meth after short vehicle pursuit



 


News

West Valley City assault, robbery suspect escapes police chase


News

Suspect dead after man with concealed carry permit intervenes in alleged carjacking in Orem


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,102 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















