Boston terror suspect’s shooting: What we know and don’t know | FOX2now.com 
Boston terror suspect’s shooting: What we know and don’t know | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Boston terror suspect’s shooting: What we know and don’t know

Posted 6:00 am, June 4, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 



Soon after Usaamah Rahim was shot to death by officers earlier this week, questions arose about his shooting death and his alleged terror plot.
Was the 26-year-old security guard simply the latest man to be shot dead by police? Authorities quickly showed a video to community leaders to counter the social media claim.
Was Rahim a radicalized religious extremist? The FBI said his social media posts point in that direction.
Rahim initially wanted to behead Islam critic Pamela Geller, who had organized a Prophet Mohammed cartoon drawing contest, law enforcement officials told CNN. But then he switched targets to police officers, because he found them easier to access.
Rahim was fatally shot Tuesday after waving a military knife at law enforcement officers in Boston.
As the investigation continues, questions remain open. From a possible ISIS connection to additional suspects in his case, here’s what we know and don’t know about the case.
THE ASSOCIATES
What we know: 
Authorities say an FBI anti-terror task force had been watching not only Rahim but two associates as well. The pair may have helped Rahim or at least known what he was up to, which could amount to terror and conspiracy related charges for them.
They have named one of them, David Wright, 25, who already faced federal obstruction charges this week. Wright is accused of destroying Rahim’s smartphone to conceal evidence of their plan. He could spend up to five years in jail if convicted.
The two appeared to use coded language and names in their exchanges, the FBI said. Wright’s lawyer, Jessica Hedges, cast doubt on the investigation connecting her client with the case.
What we don’t know:
Who was Rahim’s other associate? Authorities have yet to name that third person but say their relationship went beyond just Internet contact.
Police conducted a raid in Rhode Island in connection with the yet-unnamed associate.
Also, the FBI is investigating if there are still others connected to the trio.
THE TERROR CONNECTION
What we know:
The FBI said Rahim’s behavior changed over time, as they observed him, and that he made social media threats against police. Investigators claimed that ISIS and other extremists radicalized him.
On his Facebook page, Rahim “liked” a page about ISIS in 2012. He has also “liked” extremist preachers.
He even links to ISIS, London-based radicalization researcher Nick Kaderbhai told The Boston Globe. “At least it lets you know where his affiliations lie.”
The case has highlighted fears about the deepening reach of the terror group in the United States. U.S. officials say it only takes online communication for ISIS to inspire and train operatives to plot attacks in the country.
What we don’t know:
Despite suspicions his social media activity has generated, Rahim’s posts are sparse. And though some of them are typical of young people who later go fight for ISIS or at least sympathize with the terror group, some typical things are missing, Kaderbhai said.
Those people usually post images of Muslims suffering in Iraq and Syria and put the blame on the West. “I would have expected to see a little more interest in those stories specifically,” Kaderbhai said.
The public may have to wait for the investigation to reveal more about Rahim’s possible radicalization, as those who knew Rahim casually said the suspicions against him have caught them by surprise.
THE SHOOTING
What we know:
An FBI anti-terror task force believed Rahim posed an imminent threat and confronted him with it in public, authorities said. Their guns were not drawn at the time; surveillance video shows this, Boston police said.
Then, Rahim pulled a knife and went after them. The officers fired to protect themselves.
Afterward, social media lit up with the claim that Rahim had become the latest young man to be gunned down by police. Rahim’s brother, Ibrahim Rahim, may have triggered it, when he posted on social media that Usaama Rahim was shot three times in the back while on the phone with their father.
To dispel the claim, police invited religious and civil rights leaders from the community to watch surveillance video of the shooting.
The words of Darren Williams from the Urban League sums up what they said they didn’t see.
“What the video does reveal to us very clearly is that the individual was not on the cell phone, the individual was not shot in the back and that the information reported by others that that was the case was inaccurate,” he said.
What we don’t know:
The viewers said the video doesn’t reveal everything, including a clear view of the knife Rahim allegedly wielded.
“We do see a very vague video that is not clear as to what transpired. It wasn’t at a bus stop. He wasn’t shot in the back, and there is not detail enough on the video to tell us exactly what happened,” said Imam Abdullah Faaruuq, a Muslim community leader invited to watch the footage.
Authorities want to wait until Rahim’s family has seen the footage before releasing it to the public.
THE EVIDENCE
What we know:
Officers say Rahim wielded a knife at them before they shot him.
Rahim purchased three military fighting knives with blades longer than 8 inches on Amazon, court documents said.
He told his associate David Wright about them. “I just got myself a nice little tool…. You know it’s good for carving wood and … carving sculptures,” Rahim said in a conversation that was recorded, according to court documents.
He told Wright that he was going after “boys in blue,” a reference to police, because he had grown impatient and wanted a quick target. “I can’t wait that long,” he said.
The two used coded language, authorities said. Killing police was termed “vacation.” The FBI thought Rahim would act on his plans on Tuesday or Wednesday, so they sent officers to confront him.

What we don’t know:
Police have conducted raids in Massachusetts and Rhode Island and questioned people in the case. They have not released all of their findings yet.
By Ben Brumfield


CNN’s Mary Moloney contributed to this report.




Filed in: News 













 






Events Calendar
See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Police seek third person in Usaamah Rahim’s Boston terror plot


News

Source: Man fatally shot by officers in Boston part of terror network


News

Boston shooting: Suspect plotted to kill cops, court documents say


News

Authorities arrest Nicholas Rovinski, a suspect in Boston terror case


News

5 things to know for your New Day — Thursday, June 4



 


News

5 things to know for your New Day — Wednesday, June 3


News

Mohammed cartoon contest shooting suspect linked himself to ISIS in tweets


News

Two shot and killed at ‘Muhammad Art, Cartoon Contest’ in Texas


News

Wisconsin man urges Missouri police-involved death reviews<


News

Officer charged with murder after shooting black man in back: What we know



 


News

Protests follow acquittal of Cleveland police officer


News

New York escapee Richard Matt shot and killed; Sweat being pursued


News

Walter Scott’s family plans burial as questions swirl in his death






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















