Warrants issued for suspect in convenience store shooting in Burlington | myfox8.com 
Warrants issued for suspect in convenience store shooting in Burlington | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Warrants issued for suspect in convenience store shooting in Burlington

Posted 1:07 pm, June 13, 2015, by Joe Borlik 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Dominique O’Neil Harvey, 23, of Burlington 


×
Warrants issued for suspect in convenience store shooting in Burlington


 Dominique O’Neil Harvey, 23, of Burlington


BURLINGTON, N.C. — Police are looking for a man accused of shooting and injuring another man at a convenience store in Burlington.
Warrants have been obtained for Dominique O’Neil Harvey, 23, of Burlington, in connection to a shooting at Cruisers Convenience Store at 728 N. Church St. early Saturday morning.
Police said they responded to the business shortly after 3:30 a.m. and found a 20-year-old man with a single gunshot wound.
The victim was taken to UNC Health Care and has since been released, according to police.
The suspect faces charges of assault with a deadly weapon inflicting serious injury and possession of firearm by felon.
Police said some kind of altercation occurred at the convenience store. The shooting’s motive and the relationship between the suspect and victim remain unknown.
The investigation is ongoing. Anyone with any information can call Burlington police at (336) 229-3503.

36.095692
-79.437799




Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

One dead, one injured in Burlington shooting


News

Suspect sought for shooting at occupied vehicle in Burlington


News

Burlington police looking for man accused of beating, choking and biting woman


News

Man charged in robbery, kidnapping at Burlington convenience store


News

Burlington man accused of stabbing, killing brother on Fourth of July



 


News

1 arrested, 1 sought in Burlington homicide


News

Police investigate stabbing in Burlington that injured man


News

NC man steals woman’s car, her family members prevent him from getting away


News

Burlington police searching for hit-and-run driver


News

Escaped female inmate captured in Burlington



 


News

New details: Police looking for shooter after man injured in shooting near UNCG’s campus


News

1 suspect arrested, 2 on the run after armed robbery in Burlington


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















