Officer-involved shooting reported in Winston-Salem | myfox8.com 
Officer-involved shooting reported in Winston-Salem | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Officer-involved shooting reported in Winston-Salem

Posted 10:18 am, July 11, 2015, by Joe Borlik, Updated at 04:56pm, July 11, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Left: Officer Blevins, Right: an image of the scene. (Zachary Wonderlie/WGHP) 


×
Officer-involved shooting reported in Winston-Salem


 Left: Officer Blevins, Right: an image of the scene. (Zachary Wonderlie/WGHP)


WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. – A Winston-Salem police officer exchanged gunfire with a suspect at an apartment building on Saturday morning.
The shooting happened after police responded to an apartment in the 1100 block of Academy Street shortly before 9 a.m.
Police said three Winston-Salem officers responded to the apartment in reference to a suspect who may be homicidal or suicidal.
When police arrived, an officer and the suspect exchanged gunfire and the suspect later jumped out of a second-story apartment window, according to police.
Officer Larry D. Blevins, 48, shot at the suspect, according to police. Police said the officer told the suspect to drop his weapon, but the suspect did not listen. Police said it is not currently known how many gunshots were fired.
The suspect jumped out of the window and led police on a foot chase, according to officers. The suspect was later captured and taken to Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center. He has not been identified.
Police said it is too early in the investigation to know about what charges will be filed, if any.
Officer Blevins has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation. He has been with the Winston-Salem Police Department since May, 2010.
Officer Blevins was involved in another shooting in 2013, in which he shot a man in the leg after the man wrestled his stun gun away.
The other officers who were present during this shooting were Officer Cecelia Shaffer, 32, who has been with the department since July 2005, and Officer Cody Robertson, 28, who has been with the department since February, 2011. Neither of those officers fired their service weapons, according to police.
The North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation has assumed the investigation of this shooting, as is standard practice, according to police.

36.084604
-80.268870









Filed in: News Topics: shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Suspect killed after opening fire on officers outside Dallas police headquarters


News

Baltimore police: Reports of shooting unfounded


News

Police looking for 2 men in Winston-Salem gunfight


News

Two shootings into residences reported in Greensboro; children inside during one


News

Details: 14-year-old shot in Winston-Salem home



 


News

Police searching for suspects in shootout, collision in Winston-Salem


News

2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody


News

Two people shot at Winston-Salem Apartment complex


News

Man shot in the leg after argument at Winston-Salem home


News

Suspects walk into apartment, sexually assault woman in Winston-Salem



 


News

Gunshot fired at occupied apartment in Greensboro; no injuries


News

Man shot at Winston-Salem apartment complex


News

Winston-Salem man arrested after robbery, car and foot chase






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















