Police seek driver who fled scene after truck rolled into backyard in South Jordan | fox13now.com 
Police seek driver who fled scene after truck rolled into backyard in South Jordan | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police seek driver who fled scene after truck rolled into backyard in South Jordan

Posted 1:04 pm, April 25, 2015, by Tiffany DeMasters and Mark Green, Updated at 07:12pm, April 25, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (2 images)




 


SOUTH JORDAN, Utah — Police are looking for a motorist who rolled a vehicle into the backyard of a South Jordan home early Saturday morning and caused about $1,000 in damages to the property.
The crash occurred near 11300 South and Great Neck Drive just before 5 a.m. Homeowners near the crash heard the commotion and went outside to make sure everyone involved was OK, but they found no one, according to South Jordan police.
Police say the driver of the vehicle left the scene and was nowhere to be found. The vehicle, a black Ford F150, had been traveling eastbound on 11400 South. The vehicle left the roadway and went through a vinyl fence before rolling over into a backyard of a residence.
Police say the vehicle hasn’t been reported as stolen and they haven’t been able to contact the owner. Police are looking for the driver, who they said could face charges relating to hit and run.
The vehicle did about $1,000 in damages to the fencing and landscaping at the residence.
No other vehicles were involved, and police said since the driver fled they aren’t sure if there are any injuries due to the crash.



Filed in: News Topics: rollover, south jordan police 













 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Missing driver from South Jordan rollover found hiding in trunk of realtor’s vehicle, police say


News

Police find woman’s body after car spotted upside down in Jordan River


News

Man reportedly impaled by pole during vehicle crash near Logan suffers fatal injuries


News

Motorcyclist dragged about 200 feet identified; Ogden police still seek driver of van


News

Mom with 4 unbuckled kids in car arrested for DUI after passing out, hitting trees during paper route



 


News

Man suffers fatal injuries after swerving to miss cow on Highway 261


News

Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding


News

UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore


News

Bountiful woman critically injured in hit-and-run; police still looking for driver


News

Police ID man found dead along I-15 in South Jordan, investigating how he died



 


News

Police say excessive speed a factor in fatal southern Utah crash


News

Police identify man killed in Millcreek bicycle accident


News

Man killed in rollover crash in Salt Lake City






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















