Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose | fox13now.com 
Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Men in black claiming to be police raid Holladay home, suspects on the loose

Posted 7:40 am, May 12, 2015, by Ashton Edwards, Updated at 07:55am, May 12, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





HOLLADAY, Utah – Unified Police are looking for four suspects in a home invasion robbery overnight.
Police said four Polynesian men dressed in all black kicked the door in at a basement apartment in Holladay.
According to the two victims who were home at the time, the men said they were police officers and began searching the home and taking electronics.
One of the victims was able to run down the street and call 911.
The suspects chased him a few blocks and then ran before police arrived.
Police set up roadblocks and began searching for the men but didn’t find them.
“It’s very disturbing that someone would go out there and announce themselves as police and commit a crime like this,” Unified Police Lt. Justin Hoyal said. “We’re doing everything we can to locate these suspects and get them caught and off the street but we are asking for the public’s help. If anybody knows who they are or has any information about this crime, we ask that they contact us.”
Officers said the men were armed and are considered dangerous.
If you have any information, you can contact unified police at (801) 743-7000.

40.679972
-111.839514









Filed in: News Topics: crime, holladay 








			4 comments		




 

bob

Shoot anybody who forces their way into your home without showing a warrant.




							May 12, 2015 at 7:46 am						








 

Kdc

Oh Bob, I bet you were wishing it was your house they entered. Your thirst for blood is so evident with every post you make




							May 12, 2015 at 10:37 am						










 

Andy

I think the “victim” in this one needs a little scrutiny by the police…or better yet, a neighborly persuasion to operate his business in that dope infested hipster-mecca, Sugarhouse. :)




							May 12, 2015 at 11:18 am						








 

Steve

Here is a new lock invention that may have stopped this home invasion
http://www.patentauction.com/patent.php?nb=10654




							May 12, 2015 at 4:55 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Suspects arrested, Holladay homeowner fires shot at accused burglars


News

Police looking for suspects in Millcreek shooting


News

Police seek vehicle, 2 suspects after car stolen at gunpoint in Holladay


News

Two in custody, two outstanding, one injured after neighbors intervene in home burglary


News

Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home



 


News

Two arrested in connection with at least 20 burglaries in Centerville


News

Bullet grazes man’s back after early morning shooting in Sandy


News

Men wanted for kidnapping, forgery, exploitation; claimed to be elderly victim’s ‘personal assistants’


News

Salt Lake police looking for suspect in attempted child abduction


News

Police search for suspects accused of spraying Salt Lake home with bullets



 


News

Utah massage parlors raided in human trafficking, prostitution crackdown


News

Police searching for bald bank bandit in hairy heist


News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















