Thousands Killed in Nepal Earthquake - NBC News
Thousands Killed in Nepal Earthquake - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
Latinos Recharge to 'Heal' Racial Inequities
Baltimore Mayor Seeks Civil Rights Probe of Police
Oops: Illinois Jail Guard Gets $30K for a Day's Work
North Dakota Town Evacuated After Fiery Oil Train Crash







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search















        BREAKING: Watch FAA Drone Announcement | Watch Senate Defense Budget Hearing | Watch Aurora Theater Shooting Trial 





Nepal Earthquake
3 of 88


                11 days




                    Thousands Killed in Nepal Earthquake

                    Rescuers search for victims trapped by debris after a massive 7.9 magnitude earthquake shook the capital city of Kathmandu with thousands dead.










                                    Narendra Shrestha / EPA




                                1
                            




                                     People inspect the damage of the collapsed landmark Dharahara, also called Bhimsen Tower, after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, on April 25. At least around 600 people have been killed and hundreds of others injured in a 7.9-magnitude earthquake in Nepal, according to the country's Interior Ministry. People were being rescued from the rubble of collapsed buildings. Temples have crumbled all over the city, and houses and walls have collapsed.  











                                    Narendra Shrestha / EPA




                                2
                            




                                     People try to free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal. A 7.9-magnitude earthquake rocked Nepal destroying buildings in Kathmandu and surrounding areas, with unconfirmed rumours of casualties. The epicentre was 80 kilometres north-west of Kathmandu, United States Geological Survey. Strong tremors were also felt in large areas of northern and eastern India and Bangladesh.  











                                    Omar Havana / Getty Images




                                3
                            




                                     Emergency rescue workers find a survivor in the debris of Dharara tower after it collapsed  in Kathmandu, Nepal. 











                                    Omar Havana / Getty Images




                                4
                            




                                     Emergency rescue workers carry a victim on a stretcher after Dharara tower collapsed in Kathmandu, Nepal. 















                                    Niranjan Shrestha / AP




                                5
                            




                                    Volunteers help remove debris of a building that collapsed at Durbar Square, after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong magnitude-7.9 earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley before noon Saturday, causing extensive damage with toppled walls and collapsed buildings, officials said.











                                    Niranjan Shrestha / AP




                                6
                            




                                    Rescuers look for victims under a building that collapsed after an earthquake  in Kathmandu, Nepal.











                                    Omar Havana / Getty Images




                                7
                            




                                     A young man speaks on the phone in front of a collapsed temple in the city center following an earthquake.















                                    Navesh Chitrakar / Reuters




                                8
                            




                                    People gather near a collapsed house after a major earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal . A shallow earthquake measuring 7.9 magnitude struck west of the ancient Nepali capital of Kathmandu on Saturday.











                                    Navesh Chitrakar / Reuters




                                9
                            




                                    People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after the major earthquake hit Kathmandu, Nepal .











                                    Omar Havana / Getty Images




                                10
                            




                                     Emergency workers and bystanders clear debris while searching for survivors under a collapsed temple in Basantapur Durbar Square following an earthquake.















                                    Niranjan Shrestha / AP




                                11
                            




                                    Injured people receive treatment outside Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal.











                                    Navesh Chitrakar / Reuters




                                12
                            




                                    A body of a victim lies trapped in the debris after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal. The shallow earthquake measuring 7.9 magnitude struck west of the ancient Nepali capital of Kathmandu on Saturday, killing and injuring hundreds and leaving a pall over the valley, doctors and witnesses said. 











                                    Narendra Shrestha / EPA




                                13
                            




                                     Relatives of a victim react after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal. At least around 600 people have been killed and hundreds of others injured in a 7.9-magnitude earthquake in Nepal, according to the country's Interior Ministry. People were being rescued from the rubble of collapsed buildings. Temples have crumbled all over the city, and houses and walls have collapsed.  















                                    Xinhua / Zuma Press




                                14
                            




                                    April 25, 2015 - Kathmandu, Nepal - People walk along a damaged road in Kathmandu. A powerful earthquake has rocked Nepal, wrecking buildings, injuring dozens of people and causing an unknown number of deaths, eyewitnesses say. The quake measured 7.9 and struck an area between the capital Kathmandu and the city of Pokhara, the US Geological Survey said. Tremors were felt across the region, as far afield as Pakistan, Bangladesh and neighbouring India. A Nepali minister said there had been 'massive damage' at the epicentre. (Credit Image: Â© Xinhua/ZUMA Wire)











                                    Omar Havana / Getty Images




                                15
                            




                                    : Flowers are left by survivors on top of debris from a collapsed building at Basantapur Durbar Square following an earthquake on April 25, 2015 in Kathmandu, Nepal. 







 

 

 

 









About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

