I just had the immensely sad task of sending the following to all Google…I just had the immensely sad task of sending the following to all Google…Search Images Maps Play YouTube News Gmail Drive More »Send Feedback | Web History | Help | Sign inHomeHomeProfilePeoplePhotosCollectionsCommunitiesEventsHangoutsPagesSettingsFeedbackHelp  ·  RegionPrivacy  ·  Terms  ·  Maps TermsStart a hangout Lawrence YouLawrence YouShared publicly  -  2015-04-25 I just had the immensely sad task of sending the following to all Google employees. My thoughts are with everyone in Nepal, and with Dan's family and friends."Early this morning, Nepal experienced the worst earthquake in its history, registering 7.8 on the Richter Scale. Current reports are that over 1,000 people were killed. It's a terrible tragedy.Sadly, we lost one of our own in this tragedy. +Dan Fredinburg a long-time member of the Privacy organization in Mountain View, was in Nepal with three other Googlers, hiking Mount Everest. He has passed away. The other three Googlers with him are safe and we are working to get them home quickly.The Crisis Response team has launched Person Finder[1] for Nepal, and is working to get updated satellite imagery to aid in the recovery effort. Google.org is committing $1M to the response, and we’ll have gift-matching available soon.  Our thoughts are with the people of Nepal, and with Dan’s family and friends during this terrible time."[1] http://google.org/personfinder/2015-nepal-earthquake﻿2085036 commentsTim Johnson+565 Reply Thank you for this update.﻿Cherie Manifest+676 Reply My heartfelt condolences for the family and friends of +Dan Fredinburg ... and for  you +Lawrence You. ﻿Dennis Mathew+121 Reply Heartfelt condolences to Dans family and friend's, he was getting god's creation closer to mankind while this unfortunate natural disaster took place, RIP﻿Sue Wood+121 Reply Sending prayers too Naples &Daves Family &Friends I Am so sorry for your Loss May GOD BLESS EVERYONE OF YOU ﻿Sue Wood Athens Ga ﻿Shino Tanaka+232 Reply Our thoughts are with all of you during this difficult time. Thank you for providing us the crisis response needed (globally) in situations like these.﻿Rijan Maharjan+121 Reply Nepal appreciates google.org's help. Thank you.﻿MARTHA MARQUEZ+010 Reply RIP Dan Fredinburg and all other victims of the Nepal disaster.   ﻿Todd Cameron+010 Reply Thank you, thank you for all efforts, have friends in the area.  I will wait for info, and will not clog the pipe so it can come swiftly.  Just had to say...﻿Andy Padilla+010 Reply Our prayers are with him and the rest of Nepal today. ﻿Janine Baltar+010 Reply Lawrence, I am Michele Battelli's wife and am unable to get answers. I know they are going to make their way back down - but would feel much better if I knew when and how. If possible - can you please let me know if/when you have news? I have a very limited connection here in nepal. I want to be able to meet them in Kathmandu when they arrive.﻿Sue Wood+010 Reply No need to thANK ME BECAUSE I LOVE THE WORLD BUT YOU AND WELCOME ANYWAY MAY GOD ALWAYS BLESS YOU AND YOUR COUNTRY ﻿Sue Wood Athens GA ﻿Lisa Hirsch+010 Reply RIP Dan; so sorry to hear this. Thinking of Michele and hoping he is okay (I was on one of his projects several years ago).﻿Tommy Ward+343 Reply I'm very sorry to hear this, to lose out friend who was so young.  While may be little solace to his family, at least he was following his dream and doing something he loved.  A lesson for all of us to heed.  My prayers for his family, and for the many other victims in Nepal.﻿Roger Lu+232 Reply Heartfelt condolences to Dans family & his friends, though I do not know him. RIP.﻿Christine Jacques+121 Reply I'm so sorry.﻿Zeke Cao+010 Reply Is it okay if I send a condolence card to the office? This breaks my heart. I'm a former Googler based out of ATL.﻿John Braman+010 Reply Thank you for your generous donation to the people of Nepal and those who are on the mountain.﻿Macke Raymond+010 Reply All of these kind messages echo the sentiments of many -- myself included -- who may not be in the inner circle but who grasp fully the loss of friends, colleagues and fellow Earthlings in this tragedy.  Prayers and blessings.﻿Praveena Kumara+010 Reply Very Sorry to hear this..﻿Michael D.+010 Reply Heartfelt condolences to Dan's family & friends! Ofc prayers to all the victims of this disaster. Very sad to hear ;(﻿Bruno Beaupré+010 Reply My condolences to Dan's family's and to all that had the privilege of working & enjoying life with him.﻿Sharon Halligan+010 Reply RIP Dan.  I send my condolences to his family and friends.  I did not know Dan personally, but he was an inspiration to my son, who learned from him to live life to its fullest without fear and to "climb those mountains."﻿Jefferson Burruss+010 Reply Happy to hear the news of his colleagues' safety. Sorry to hear the sad news of Mr. Fredinburg's passing. I am sure he was much respected and will be well remembered by all. ﻿Brad C+010 Reply So so sad to hear this news.  Please give the team my condolences.﻿Adebayo Onafuwa+010 Reply Really Sad to hear about the loss of a Googler amongst the tragedy. Our thoughts are with Dan's Family. ﻿Mamta Sonwalkar+010 Reply RIP Dan. Thank you google for your help. We need all the help. https://www.giveforward.com/fundraiser/n2l8/mother-s-for-nepal-s-earthquakePlease help now. ﻿Sailesh Acharya+232 Reply Very sorry to hear about Dan. The true lover for Nepal and it's mountains. So sad that we lost him. Heartfelt condolence to the family! But, thanks for your help with the huge monetary donation. Our country is poor and gets tested again and again with nature's wrath. But, we will stay strong as we have friends like you who care about us and we will bounce back! ﻿SH RAMA+010 Reply My condolences to the family. ﻿Christopher Gagliardi+121 Reply I join my voice with the many for the horrible news we received upon some of our dear friends from the united states who perished in this horrible earthquake. I also join in the mourning and prayers for Dan's family and friends, and for all the people of Nepal, I would like to ask for all of us to start a Prayer Chain for the people of Nepal and the world at large for peace and harmony. Let his compassion and his light and the love and light of the blessed people of nepal be in all of our prayers ﻿Murali Hr+010 Reply Very sad to know about this....condolences to the family ..﻿Chokhor Design+010 Reply RIP Dan and sorry for the lost of a google family member. Thank you for the donation and your support. I just googled the gmap to see the aerial view of Kathmandu and noticed it hasn't been updated yet. Could you please update the map so I can get better ideas of damages caused by the earthquake. My families are from Kathmandu and I am trying find current whereabouts. From East Bay!!﻿Taslim OKUNOLA+010 Reply RIP Dan﻿Jemima Aaron+010 Reply +Janine Baltar +Lawrence You Hoping you got the answers you were looking for. Adding Lawrence to assist if needed﻿Nancy Gilder+010 Reply Sorry to hear this sad news.  Condolences and prayers for Dan's family and friends.﻿Thomas Dübendorfer+010 Reply My thoughts are with Dan's relatives and the Googlers he used to work with. I also used to work with him on privacy projects at Google and he was a visionary with a strong will.﻿Lisa Nam+010 Reply I'm so sorry.﻿Add a comment...