Long-Predicted Death Toll in Nepal Earthquake Reflects Wider Himalayan Seismic Risk - NYTimes.com 



Long-Predicted Death Toll in Nepal Earthquake Reflects Wider Himalayan Seismic Risk - NYTimes.com




Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content












                Dot Earth            

|
        Long-Predicted Death Toll in Nepal Earthquake Reflects Wider Himalayan Seismic Risk        
    



Advertisement





Search
 
Log In

 0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








 













 




Search

 







earthquakes

Long-Predicted Death Toll in Nepal Earthquake Reflects Wider Himalayan Seismic Risk


				By Andrew C. Revkin 
April 25, 2015 8:44 am
April 25, 2015 8:44 am
 




PhotoPhotos posted by Kashish Das Shrestha on Twitter (at @kashishds).Credit Kashish Das Shrestha
Various Updates |  The Himalayas are one of the world’s most worrisome hot zones for earthquake risk, which is a function of tectonic activity, human population size and the quality (or lack thereof) of construction. 
That is why the death toll in the 7.8-magnitude earthquake near Katmandu today is almost certainly going to be far higher than initial reports of hundreds. Ellen Barry and Gardiner Harris summarize the many scenes of horror for The Times.
Twitter is the place to watch for the human response and grounded views. Track the flow of photographs and thoughts from my friend Kashish Das Shrestha (@kashishds), a photographer and sustainable development commentator and analyst who was in the thick of things.
PhotoKashis Das Shrestha, a photographer and sustainable development policy adviser in Katmandu, posted a stream of photos on Twitter (@kashishds) in the first minutes after the Nepal earthquake.Credit Kashish Das Shreshtha
In an update on its work in the region posted just last week, GeoHazards International, a group devoted to safer building in cities threatened by earthquakes and other hazards, included this sadly foreboding section, alluding to the 1934 Bihar-Nepal Earthquake: 

The seismic record of the region, extending back to 1255, suggests that earthquakes of this size occur approximately every 75 years, indicating that a devastating earthquake is inevitable in the long term.
With an annual population growth rate of 6.5% and one of the highest urban densities in the world, the 1.5 million people living in the Kathmandu Valley were clearly facing a serious and growing earthquake risk. It was also clear that the next large earthquake to strike near the Valley would cause significantly greater loss of life, structural damage, and economic hardship than past earthquakes had inflicted.

~~
Update, 12:24 p.m. |  It will be interesting to check whether building collapses and other quake damage match the projections mapped in a 2010 paper in the Journal of Geographic Information Systems: “Urban Vulnerabilities in the Kathmandu Valley, Nepal: Visualizations of Human/Hazard Interactions,” by Keshav Bhattarai and Dennis Conway. Here’s my Twitter item with a key illustration:
“Urban Vulnerabilities in Kathmandu Valley” ’10 paper mapped most quake-vulnerable spots. http://t.co/fm6rGBTBVp pdf http://t.co/H01KWTznaX
— Andy Revkin (@Revkin) 25 Apr 15
~~
The United States Geological Survey gives the tectonic analysis — much of which reflects the sense of inevitability that haunts many of the seismologists and disaster-management experts I’ve gotten to know since I began covering earthquake hazards and science in 2004. I’ll excerpt the summary below.
For more, read my 2005 story “The Future of Calamity,” written a few days after the great Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami, and “Disaster Hot Spots on a Crowding Planet.” The map with that piece says much when you focus in on the Himalayan band.
PhotoA U.S. Geological Survey map of the earthquake zone (yellow and red bands denote shaking intensity).Credit earthquake.usgs.gov
Here’s the most relevant part of the Geological Survey analysis: 
The April 25, 2015 M 7.8 Nepal earthquake occurred as the result of thrust faulting on or near the main frontal thrust between the subducting India plate and the overriding Eurasia plate to the north. At the location of this earthquake, the India plate is converging with Eurasia at a rate of 45 mm/yr towards the north-northeast, driving the uplift of the Himalayan mountain range. The preliminary location, size and focal mechanism of the April 25 earthquake are consistent with its occurrence on the main subduction thrust interface between the India and Eurasia plates.
Although a major plate boundary with a history of large-to-great sized earthquakes, large earthquakes on the Himalayan thrust are rare in the documented historical era. Just four events of M6 or larger have occurred within 250 km of the April 25, 2015 earthquake over the past century. One, a M 6.9 earthquake in August 1988, 240 km to the southeast of the April 25 event, caused close to 1500 fatalities. The largest, an M 8.0 event known as the 1934 Nepal-Bihar earthquake, occurred in a similar location to the 1988 event. It severely damaged Kathmandu, and is thought to have caused around 10,600 fatalities.

Here’s a #NepalQuake Twitter sampler, starting with before-and-after photographs from Siobhan Heanue, an Australian television journalist who happened to be in Katmandu:
I took these photos an hour apart. Was wandering when quake demolished temples before my eyes. Heartbreaking. http://t.co/RYtIZI4725
— Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) 25 Apr 15
Google, via its @googleindia Twitter feed, launched a “person finder”: 
We’ve just launched a Person Finder instance to help track missing persons for the #Nepal earthquake–>http://t.co/3e4pNsOALm
— Google India (@googleindia) 25 Apr 15
Seth Borenstein of the Associated Press filed an excellent article about a meeting of disaster and earthquake experts in Katmandu just a week ago: 

Just a week ago, about 50 earthquake and social scientists from around the world came to Kathmandu, Nepal, to figure out how to get this poor, congested, overdeveloped, shoddily built area to prepare better for the big one, a repeat of the 1934 temblor that leveled this city. They knew they were racing the clock, but they didn’t know when what they feared would strike.
“It was sort of a nightmare waiting to happen,” said seismologist James Jackson, head of the earth sciences department at the University of Cambridge in England. “Physically and geologically what happened is exactly what we thought would happen.”

Experts gathered in Nepal a week ago to ready for earthquake  http://t.co/oNQiIcXCfz #NepalQuake @borenbears AP story
— Andy Revkin (@Revkin) 25 Apr 15


 

 
disasters, earthquakes, 
Disasters and Emergencies, Earthquakes, Engineering and Engineers, himalayas, Katmandu (Nepal), Nepal 


 


Loading...










Previous Post




				Oklahoma’s Options Now That State and Federal Scientists Confirm Big Earthquake Impact from Water Disposal			


Next Post




				Why Is the Rising Death Toll in the Nepal Earthquake Still Lower Than Predictions?			





About

By 2050 or so, the human population is expected to pass nine billion. Those billions will be seeking food, water and other resources on a planet where humans are already shaping climate and the web of life. In Dot Earth, which moved from the news side of The Times to the Opinion section in 2010, Andrew C. Revkin examines efforts to balance human affairs with the planet’s limits. A Times reporter for 14 years, Revkin is the Senior Fellow for Environmental Understanding at Pace University's Pace Academy for Applied Environmental Studies. 
Conceived in part with support from a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship, Dot Earth tracks relevant developments from suburbia to Siberia. Click for a narrated slide show on the roots of Revkin's journalistic journey.

More: Twitter | Facebook | YouTube | Google+ | Books | Music
 
Archive 
Select Month
 May 2015 
 April 2015 
 March 2015 
 February 2015 
 January 2015 
 December 2014 
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 


Recent Posts 




resilience

With Monsoon Nigh, Tent Shortage After Nepal Earthquake Prompts a D.I.Y. Response



 

			With the monsoon nigh and relief supplies lagging, Nepalis turn a car repair shop into a factory transforming tablecloth fabric into tents.Read more…






seasons

In Skunk Cabbage Growth, Watching Spring Spring



 

			Watching spring spring in the bursting, unfurling growth of skunk cabbage.Read more…






disasters

Amid Katmandu’s Earthquake Wreckage, Hints of a Shift to Safer Construction



 

			Amid the carnage and wreckage in Katmandu, earthquake engineers see subtle signs that the country’s builders are shifting to safer practices.Read more…






disasters

Dire Prospects Seen When the Full Nepal Earthquake Death Toll is Tallied



 

			A seasoned seismologist says Nepal is making a mistake by not acknowledging the scope of projected losses from Saturday’s major earthquake.Read more…






Climate Change

A Vatican Declaration Seeks Equitable Clean-Energy Access in a Livable Climate



 

			A Vatican gathering pushes the moral case for sustaining a livable climate while alleviating poverty.Read more…






Follow us on
@dotearth on twitter

Twitter
Follow 

 







Advertisement







Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015

 The New York Times Company




Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 











