Why Is the Rising Death Toll in the Nepal Earthquake Still Lower Than Predictions? - NYTimes.com 



Why Is the Rising Death Toll in the Nepal Earthquake Still Lower Than Predictions? - NYTimes.com




Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content












                Dot Earth            

|
        Why Is the Rising Death Toll in the Nepal Earthquake Still Lower Than Predictions?        
    



Advertisement





Search
 
Log In

 0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








 













 




Search

 







earthquakes

Why Is the Rising Death Toll in the Nepal Earthquake Still Lower Than Predictions?


				By Andrew C. Revkin 
April 27, 2015 12:34 pm
April 27, 2015 12:34 pm
 















Updated, 2:03 p.m. | Amid the horror and devastation around Nepal’s Katmandu Valley after Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude earthquake, seismologists and earthquake-focused engineers are remarking on how low the death counts are — particularly in the capital — compared to many predictions for the densely populated, deeply impoverished and ill-prepared region.
And this assessment presumes that fatalities will climb much higher than the 3,800 counted so far. But to reach even the low end of past estimates, the death toll would have to rise enormously.
In 2012, for example, this was the warning for the Katmandu Valley from the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction:
Conservative estimates are that the next big earthquake could result in 100,000 dead, 200,000 injured and one to two million people displaced
Why the difference? For one thing, it appears that, at least for the capital, this earthquake was not nearly a worst case.
If the great 1934 Bihar-Nepal earthquake occurred with today’s population and structures, vastly higher losses would occur, as GeoHazards International and Nepal’s National Society for Earthquake Technology found in a 1999 analysis.
Susan E. Hough, a United States Geological Survey seismologist, sent these thoughts on Sunday:
As tragic as the losses are, it seems clear the city was not flattened. I’ve been struck by damage photos — not only the damage they show, but the damage they don’t show to apparently intact buildings in the background. This seems to go hand-in-hand with the ShakeMap, which is poorly constrained but shows intensities 7-8 in the near-field, not 9-10.
I’m thinking it will be an interesting part of the earthquake story, understanding the ground motions in the near field. There should be at least some strong motion data from Katmandu, and maybe elsewhere. It kills me there isn’t more: I tried to put together a proposal a few years ago to install more dense low-cost accelerometers in the valley, working with NSET [Nepal’s National Society for Earthquake Technology] and Tribuvan University. I was involved with a proposal that went in a year or so ago…. I do think preparedness efforts made a difference. Amod Dixit and his team at NSET have worked tirelessly on outreach, education, and training.
The population was not ignorant. Fatalism arises when problems are so far outside people’s control that they can’t do anything about it — or rather, they think they can’t do anything about it.
And yes that paragraph is contradictory. The thing is, the overall problem was far outside anyone’s control but it is still possible to make some difference.
Port-au-Prince is mostly the same story: big problems, big earthquakes, few resources. By my calculation, ground motions in Port-au-Prince were not intensity 9-10, but maybe 6-8. The story again was vulnerability.
I also asked her if there’s any concern about this being misperceived as the worst that could happen.
Could something bigger happen in Nepal? Sure.
There’s the megathrust segment immediately west of this earthquake, which we believe last broke in 1505. It’s the usual story, though: we don’t know when. The odds of subsequent big earthquakes always go up after a major earthquake. Ironically, the most dangerous time, statistically, is always just after a major earthquake has happened. But still it’s a low probability. We quote a 1-in-20 chance that something bigger will happen within 3 days, but the odds drop quickly with each passing hour. By this time [Sunday], the odds are more like 1-in-100. And the odds of an earthquake much larger than 7.8 are much lower still. It is possible, maybe even inevitable, that both Port-au-Prince and Nepal will be hit with stronger ground motions than what they’ve seen in recent years.
So the city of Katmandu, while still reeling, has clearly been spared what could have been a far higher death count given rapid urbanization in recent years (driven in part as people fled political turmoil in the hinterlands), poor quality of construction, lack of emergency services and other glaring issues.
The focus at the moment should be supporting rescue and relief efforts. But it’s also vital for Nepal and international aid agencies and organizations to redouble efforts to rebuild with the worse in mind.
The geological forces creating the earthquake hazard in Nepal and throughout the region are not abating, as Kenneth Chang wrote.
Rural Devastation
Of course the other factor behind the low death counts so far is that estimates of deaths have mainly come from the capital and larger towns in the affected region, while small communities have been largely cut off.
Several earthquake analysts focused on the Himalayas said they would be surprised if the death toll ended up lower than 10,000 once rural towns and villages, hammered by landslides and building collapses, finish assessing losses. It could easily end up far higher.
Scan Facebook or Twitter using these hashtags for affected villages to get the idea: #Sindhupalchowk #Gorkha #Nuwakot #Rasuwa #Dhading.
PhotoBarpak, a village in northern Nepal, before and after the major earthquake onApril 25.Credit Sirish Shrestha (left), Darjeeling Chronicle (right)
There has been a steady flood of appeals for help on social media, speaking of enormous, as-yet-uncounted losses. Here’s one, from the Facebook page of The Darjeeling Chronicle:
PhotoOn Facebook, the Darjeeling Chronicle is compiling appeals for help from small towns and villages devastated in Nepal's earthquake.Credit facebook.com/thedarjeelingchronicle
Here’s a final thought from Thomas Parsons, also of the Geological Survey:
Unfortunately the tolls of this earthquake will likely rise with time as news from the more remote areas emerges. The intensity maps I’ve seen for Nepal are comparable to the M=7.6 2005 Kashmir earthquake (similar Himalayan foothills setting) where 80,000+ people perished. I don’t know anything about the population density in the strongest shaking zone in Nepal; hopefully it is lower than in the Pakistan case and construction standards are better (that’s just a hope, I don’t know).
However, it appears that, other than some localized Katmandu basin effects, the city may have been spared from the most intense shaking. Had the earthquake been centered more to the east, this could have been substantially worse. In addition to possibly delayed reporting, we also have to worry about large aftershocks nearer to Katmandu (like the Darfield-Christchurch New Zealand example). Sometimes these can be delayed long enough to make improvements. For example, there were 5 years separating the 2008 M=7.9 Wenchuan China and 2013 M=6.6 Lushan earthquakes.
To get a sense (a chilling sense) of how popluation patterns have amplified exposure to earthquake hazards in the region, have a look at this map from GeoHazards International (a high-resolution version is here, part of a broader analysis), which shows the quake zone with population densities superimposed:
PhotoA map showing population densities across the region most affected by the April 25, 2015, earthquake in Nepal.Credit geohazards.org/nepal-earthquake
If you missed it, here’s my initial post, shortly after the quake struck, noting that the entire Himalayan region faces an extraordinary danger from the conjunction of relentless tectonic activity, rapid population growth and vulnerable construction.
Style note | The Times’s style guide still has Katmandu spelled without the h, as in the more common Kathmandu.


 

 
disasters, earthquakes, engineering, Geology, Poverty, 
Accidents and Safety, Deaths (Fatalities), Disasters and Emergencies, Earthquakes, Engineering and Engineers, Geology, Katmandu (Nepal), Nepal, United Nations 


 


Loading...










Previous Post




				Long-Predicted Death Toll in Nepal Earthquake Reflects Wider Himalayan Seismic Risk			


Next Post




				With Pope Francis’s Encyclical on Climate Change Done, Now a Vatican Sales Push – and Pushback			





About

By 2050 or so, the human population is expected to pass nine billion. Those billions will be seeking food, water and other resources on a planet where humans are already shaping climate and the web of life. In Dot Earth, which moved from the news side of The Times to the Opinion section in 2010, Andrew C. Revkin examines efforts to balance human affairs with the planet’s limits. A Times reporter for 14 years, Revkin is the Senior Fellow for Environmental Understanding at Pace University's Pace Academy for Applied Environmental Studies. 
Conceived in part with support from a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship, Dot Earth tracks relevant developments from suburbia to Siberia. Click for a narrated slide show on the roots of Revkin's journalistic journey.

More: Twitter | Facebook | YouTube | Google+ | Books | Music
 
Archive 
Select Month
 May 2015 
 April 2015 
 March 2015 
 February 2015 
 January 2015 
 December 2014 
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 


Recent Posts 




resilience

With Monsoon Nigh, Tent Shortage After Nepal Earthquake Prompts a D.I.Y. Response



 

			With the monsoon nigh and relief supplies lagging, Nepalis turn a car repair shop into a factory transforming tablecloth fabric into tents.Read more…






seasons

In Skunk Cabbage Growth, Watching Spring Spring



 

			Watching spring spring in the bursting, unfurling growth of skunk cabbage.Read more…






disasters

Amid Katmandu’s Earthquake Wreckage, Hints of a Shift to Safer Construction



 

			Amid the carnage and wreckage in Katmandu, earthquake engineers see subtle signs that the country’s builders are shifting to safer practices.Read more…






disasters

Dire Prospects Seen When the Full Nepal Earthquake Death Toll is Tallied



 

			A seasoned seismologist says Nepal is making a mistake by not acknowledging the scope of projected losses from Saturday’s major earthquake.Read more…






Climate Change

A Vatican Declaration Seeks Equitable Clean-Energy Access in a Livable Climate



 

			A Vatican gathering pushes the moral case for sustaining a livable climate while alleviating poverty.Read more…






Follow us on
@dotearth on twitter

Twitter
Follow 

 







Advertisement







Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015

 The New York Times Company




Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 











