Massive earthquake rattles Nepal, rocks India: As it happened on Saturday | Zee News
Massive earthquake rattles Nepal, rocks India: As it happened on Saturday | Zee News










 
























हिन्दी
मराठी
বাংলা
संगम






























Toggle navigation







 
INDIA
STATES 
 Andhra Pradesh
Assam
Bihar
Chhattisgarh
 Delhi NCR
Goa
 Gujarat
Haryana
Himachal Pradesh
Jammu and Kashmir
Jharkhand
Karnataka
Kerala
 Madhya Pradesh
Maharashtra
North East
Odisha
Punjab
Rajasthan
 Tamil Nadu
Telangana
Uttar Pradesh
Uttarakhand
UTs
West Bengal


World
S Asia
BIZ
SPORTS 

Cricket
football
tennis
motorsport
golf
other sports
blogs
exclusive
Photos
Videos
Debate
Soft Spot


CRICKET
 IPL 2015


SCI-TECH
SHOWBIZ 

Red Hot
Reviews
Movies
Glamtalk
Bookworm
TV    
Celebrity
Romance    
Recipes    
Pics    
Video    
And More    


HEALTH 
BLOG
EXCLUSIVE
PICS
VIDEO
Live TV
REAL ESTATE




















Narendra Modi Government
One Year On ...






Toggle navigation








Home
News
Key Moments
Rate Team Modi
Photos
Videos
People Meter








Home
Narendra Modi Government One Year
News



                          ﻿Massive earthquake rattles Nepal, rocks India: As it happened on Saturday



        
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Last Updated: Monday, May 4, 2015 - 23:17




0
Shares

 Share on Facebook


 Share on Twitter







 Whatsapp 




 Comment













Zee Media Bureau/Deepak Nagpal/Sushmita DuttaNew Delhi: A strong earthquake of magnitude 7.9 on Richter scale and a series of aftershocks struck Nepal on Saturday. The quakes also jolted parts of North and Northeast India. Widespread damage has been reported from Nepal.




Here are the live updates:
The BBC is reporting that the UK has deployed a team of humanitarian experts to Nepal to provide urgent support. The eight-strong team, which includes experts in search and rescue, will travel to Nepal overnight.
In the previous one, some 60 Indians were evacuated. We are expecting two more aircrafts, says Wing Commander Rochelle De Silva.
We evacuated 101 adults and one infant in this aircraft: Wing Commander Rochelle De Silva (PRO, IAF).
There was no one to take responsibility, happy that Modi Govt took initiative: Indian stranded in Nepal.
IAF aircraft (Globemaster C-17) carrying 2nd batch of stranded Indians arrives at Palam, Delhi from earthquake hit Nepal. 
Another IAF aircraft carrying about 200 stranded Indians is expected to arrive later tonight in Delhi: Vikas Swarup, MEA Spokesperson.
At least 13 people died at a Mount Everest base camp in wake of Nepal quake, says Indian Army.
312 stranded Indians evacuated from Nepal in 3 IAF flights carrying 52, 100 and 160 Indians: Embassy of India KTM to MEA. 
Locals on high alert in Bihar after earthquake hit several parts in India, say will spend the night in open-spaced parks. 
Have directed army to lend all possible help to the civil administration in Bihar: Manohar Parrikar. 
Helicopters could not go due to bad weather. Tomorrow morning there will be more arrangements from Gorakhpur, says Parrikar.
Four flights have already gone. We will increase the frequency tomorrow: Manohar Parrikar.
We are assessing the situation and seeing what else could be required from our end: Defense Minister Manohar Parrikar. 
The people there too were very happy that India sent help in such a short time: MJ Akbar on Nepal earthquake.
55 Indians rescued from Nepal earthquake leave from Palam airport, ANI reports.
We were told it was an earthquake. Later we were rescued, thanks to Modi ji, says Indian rescued from Nepal.
GoI did a good job. The arrangements were good too, says Anand Rao (Indian rescued from Nepal earthquake). 
One C130 Hercules lands at Palam airport with 55 Indians rescued from Nepal.
According to media reports at least 1,500 dead in Nepal, India mounts massive rescue operation.
India`s ambassador to Nepal Ranjit Rae tells IANS over phone: "I can confirm only two Indian deaths now -- one in the embassy and one in a hospital." 
Air India, SpiceJet to operate additional flights to Kathmandu.
Indian Army is also sending Major General JS Sandhu to Nepal to oversee Indian rescue efforts, say Defence sources.
Embassy of India Kathmandu Control room numbers are: +977- 012081148, 012081141, 9818968752, 9818968780.
French President Francois Hollande says France was ready to respond to any request from Nepal "for aid and assistance". 
US President Barack Obama briefed on Nepal earthquake. US to send disaster response team.
Kathmandu airport shut, flights to resume from Sunday, as per reports.
Around 200 people from various parts of Karnataka are reported to be stranded in quake-hit Nepal.
Fresh tremors in Delhi, Nepal measuring 4.7 on Richter scale, according to media reports.
Reuters quotes Nepal police as saying that death toll has reached 1,130.
C-130 J aircraft of IAF is returning with stranded Indians from Katmandu & is scheduled to land at Palam, Delhi around 10 pm: MoD Spokesperson
One C 17 dispatched to Nepal with 96 NDRF personnel on onboard and 15 tonnes of relief material - ANI.
SushmaSwaraj responds to a daughter's plea, agrees to help find father.
According to media reports, at least 970 people are now feared dead.
Yoga guru Ramdev narrowly escapes after 'pandal' collapses in Kathmandu.
Google launches "Person Finder" for the Nepal earthquake victims.
 
Google launches "Person Finder" for the #NepalEarthquake victims: http://t.co/OiGvXATHR7 pic.twitter.com/tZ4Ga40TCO — Kirk Borne (@KirkDBorne) April 25, 2015
As instructed by MR @sureshpprabhu, 1 lakh Rail Neer bottles being despatched to Kathmandu as relief by IR. Tonight. — Ministry of Railways (@RailMinIndia) April 25, 2015
 
 
#Earthquake: Minor damages to properties and roads reported in #Sikkim due to tremors. — All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) April 25, 2015


Related Photo Gallery





Major earthquake rattles Nepal, India
 

#NepalEarthquake IAF’s C-130J Super Hercules which has just landed at K’mandu carried 39 NDRF personnel and 3.5 tonnes of load. — Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015
 
39 NDRF team from India, 2 dogs and 3 tonnes equipment handed over to Nepal Army for rescue operations: Indian Embassy in Nepal.
"Received a call from Pujya Morari Bapu. He has donated Rs 51 Lakh for relief work in Nepal. My deepest gratitude to him," PM Modi tweets.
Heartfelt condolences to families of deceased; prayers for speedy recovery of injured on account of earthquake, says President Pranab Mukherjee.
Nearly 125 people from Maharashtra and Telangana are stranded in Nepal after a high-magnitude earthquake struck the Himalayan nation.
Indian Air Force is evacuating 250 persons from Kathmandu today. Please ask your relatives to get in touch with Indian mission there: MEA's tweets.
Meanwhile, Sushma Swaraj took to Twitter to thank Akhilesh Yadav for his gesture to offer help to quake effected people.
Since there is a usually a probability of after-shocks within 24 hours it’s important that we be alert: Nitish.
133 wounded in Bihar. Information based on feedback of the officers on ground. The figure would rise, says Nitish Kumar.
As per the latest info received, the death toll in Bihar has reached 25: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar.
180 bodies retrieved from debris of Nepal's historic Dharhara tower, as per reports. 
It has been decided that for the coming 3 days, BSNL calls to Nepal will be charged local rates: Ravi Shankar Prasad on Nepal earthquake.
UP CM Akhilesh Yadav increases the earthquake relief to Rs 7 lakh for the family members of the deceased person & all medical help to the injured, according to media reports. ​
"My thoughts and prayers are with the people affected by the massive earthquake in Nepal and parts of India. I hope the damage to life and property is limited and those in need receive assistance at the earliest," Rahul Gandhi says in his message.
Congress President Sonia Gandhi and party Vice President Rahul Gandhi express concern over the situation caused by the massive earthquake in Nepal and its impact in India and hoped that the damage to life and property is limited.
Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar tweets: “Deeply shocked over the loss of lives and property in the massive earthquake that hit Nepal. Govt. airlifting 20000 food packets tomorrow.”
 
Meanwhile, according to media reports, another Indian relief aircraft leaves for Nepal from Hindon Airbase.
 


Related Videos





Earthquake shakes Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar
 

#NepalEarthquake Some more pic. of the scene at Hindan where one more C-17 a/c of IAF being readied for take off. pic.twitter.com/g4gWIRpww5 — Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015
 
I spoke to the PM and President of Nepal. Have assured them that our entire nation is with them in this hour of need: PM Modi
 
Tourists from Gujarat stranded in Nepal or their kin can contact control room at Gandhinagar 079-23251900/902/907/908/914/918 for help. — BJP Gujarat (@BJP_Gujarat) April 25, 2015
 
Today's earthquake has made us all very sad. Reports are still coming on the extent of the damage: PM Modi.

Nepal's pain is our pain, says PM Narendra Modi at the Gyanpith Award ceremony.

Earthquake kills 3 in West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee calls up PM Narendra Modi.


News agency AFP is quoting police officials as saying that death toll from devastating Nepal earthquake hits 876.


NDRF teams have been mobilized, GoI is monitoring and we want to minimize loss of property & life, says Kiren Rijiju (MoS Home). 


Nepal quake death toll reaches 758: Home Ministry.

Biggest quake in Nepal since 1934; aftershocks to continue: NGRI scientist. 


IAF’s C-130J Super Hercules which has just landed at Katmandu carried 39 NDRF personnel and 3.5 tonnes of load: MoD Principal spokesperson.

According to media reports, 18 dead bodies have been recovered from Everest Base Camp.
Reuters is quoting a Nepali diplomat as saying that earthquake toll have crossed 750.
NDRF teams and relief material being sent to Kathmandu: Hindon Air Force Station.
 
#NepalEarthquake Inside of C-17 aircraft being readied for take off for Nepal with rescue personnel and load. pic.twitter.com/w6nPW4zW42 — Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015
 
#NepalEarthquake One C-17 Globemaster III has just taken off carrying 96 NDRF personnel and 15 tonnes of load. pic.twitter.com/vXBouEzuYw — Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015
Bihar government announces compensation of Rs 4 Lakh for kin of deceased in earthquake, ANI reports.
Meanwhile, AFP is quoting a Nepali diplomat as saying that death toll in Everest base camp avalanche triggered by Nepal earthquake kills 10.
Government & people of Pakistan express solidarity with affected people of Nepal & India and offer all possible help that may be required, says Pak MoFA.
The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) of Pakistan has been readied to take the relief assistance at a short notice: Pak MoFA.
MEA opens 24 hour Control Room for queries regarding tragic #NepalEarthquake. Numbers: #earthquake pic.twitter.com/bWRkwpVmFZ — All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) April 25, 2015
Nepal quake death toll reaches 758, news agency Reuters quotes Nepal home ministry official as saying.
National Disaster Management Authority sets up control rooms. The numbers are 011-26701728, 011-26701729 & 9868891801. 
Deploying communication equipment, light medicines, technical equipment, sniffer dogs both in Nepal, India, says NDRF chief. 
5 NDRF teams sent to Bihar and UP; 10 NDRF teams flown to Nepal, says chief OP Singh.
6 teams from Ghaziabad, 4 from Bhatinda sent to Nepal. One team has 45 personnel: NDRF chief OP Singh.
Army Chief Gen Dalbir Singh is in touch with his Nepalese counterpart reagarding their requirements, says Parrikar. 
We have mobilised all resources to support Nepal in the wake of devastating earthquake: Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar
14 aftershocks have been observed so far with an intensity of 5 and above: IMD chief.
According to Baba Ramdev, over 2Lakh people have taken refuge in Tundi Khel Maidan in Kathmandu after earthquake , await relief, says ANI.
Ex gratia shall be given to families of those who have lost lives: LC Goyal
NDRF teams have been deployed in Bihar after a request from the state govt: Union Home Secretary LC Goyal on the earthquake.
34 dead so far in India due to earthquake: Union Home Secretary LC Goyal.
The death toll upto now is 3 in WB, 8 in UP, and 23 in Bihar: Union Home Secretary.
We have been in constant touch with affected states:  LC Goyal
Union Home Secretary LC Goyal brefing the media.
"Indians in Nepal may please contact our mission in Kathmandu. Our mission will provide you all help," Sushma Swaraj tweets.
17 dead, 48 injured in Bihar after Nepal earthquake triggers aftershocks, according to media reports. 
Foreign Secretary concludes briefing the media.
In action again. 24 hour control room 4 Nepal Earthquake. Numbers +91 11 2301 2113 +91 11 2301 4104 +91 11 2301 7905 pic.twitter.com/FzV6hxOgGx — Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) April 25, 2015
Prime Minister Modi's instructions were to help Nepal in anyway we can: MEA.
Indians who are stranded in Kathmandu & want to get in touch with family here can contact our Embassy in Kathmandu, says S Jaishankar.
We have set up help line in the ministry, numbers have been sent out. There is an email ID - "controlroom@mea.gov.in" for any info: MEA.
Indians who are stranded in Kathmandu & want to get in touch with family here can contact our Embassy in Kathmandu: S Jaishankar. 
There has been severe damage in Kathmandu, our embassy has some damage. One staff member's wife died: MEA on earthquake.
Don't have data on how many Indians are travelling in Nepal: Foreign Secretary.
No electricity or mobile networks in Nepal quake affected areas: Foreign Secy. 
Water, medical equipment, specialised rescue equipments, tents & blanket will be flown in tomorrow by aircraft, says Foreign Secy.
One of the 2 aircraft leaving soon from Hindon will be carrying mobile hospital & another 3 NDRF teams: Foreign Secy.
There is heavy damage around Kathmandu, by tomorrow 5 helicopters will be placed in Pokhara for airlifting purposes: MEA on earthquake relief.
Two more aircrafts will fly off later today, carrying NDRF teams. Third aircraft will fly from Bhatinda: S Jaishankar.
C130 aircraft is on it's way,  landing in Kathmandu shortly. Carrying 3 tonnes of supplies, 40 NDRF personnel: MEA on earthquake relief.
PM spoke to PM Koirala and assured that India will help with whatever relief efforts possible, says Jaishankar.
We are responding to the situation, we got in touch with govt of Nepal: Foreign Secy S Jaishankar.
​Nepalese govt has asked for help with rescue teams, medical teams, and help in damage assessment, says MEA on earthquake.
Foreign Secretary briefing the media.
External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj tweets - "A house in our Embassy complex collapsed. Unfortunately, the daughter of our employee Madan has died. His wife's condition is serious."
A house in our Embassy complex collapsed. Unfortunately, the daughter of our employee Madan has died. His wife's condition is serious. — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) April 25, 2015
24-hour control room in MEA, Nepal thanks India for assistance.​

Here are the 24x7 emergency helpline numbers in Kathmandu:​ 


Police emergency number: 4228435/4226853
Metropolitan police range (Kathmandu): +977 4261945/ +977 4261790
Metropolitan police range (Lalitpur): +977 5521207
Metropolitan police range (Bhaktapur): +977 6614821
Red cross ambulance service: +977 4228094

Emergency declared in Nepal after massive earthquake hit the country.
Nepal death toll from quake rises to 688, says Reuters quoting government.
CNN says 597 people have been killed in Nepal.
Nepal National Operation Centre emergency number: +977-420-0257.
According to media reports, number of people killed by earthquake in Bihar rises to 17.
Nearly 125 people from Maharashtra and Telangana are stranded in Nepal, as per PTI.
The BBC is reporting that death toll from the massive Nepal earthquake has risen to 565.
PM orders immediate dispatch of relief and medical teams to Nepal, directs evacuation of Indian tourists.
Three people have died in north Bengal. 30 people are injured all over the state until now - Mamata Banerjee, West Bengal CM
Another aftershock has hit Nepal, now total of 16 excluding the first earthquake.
Reuters has quoted a Nepal tourism official as saying that an avalanche has buried a part of Nepal Everest base camp after quake and eight people have died in the incident.  
Reporters on the ground say most of the buildings and temples that have collapsed in Nepal in the wake of the earthquake are old ones. Most of the newly-built structures have managed to withstand the tremors.
According to the MoD spokesperson, one C-130J Superhercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force is on its way to Kathmandu with NDRF teams for relief and rescue efforts. More flights will be undertaken to Nepal to carry medical teams and doctors.
Ministry of Defence spokesperson Sitanshu Kar has tweeted that an Indian Army Everest expedition team along with Sherpas are safe.
Nepal death toll from quake rises to 449, says Reuters quoting police.
There are reports of 10-12 casualties in some states but we are awaiting confirmation. Damage to property also reported - Rajnath Singh.
As much help as they (Nepal) want, we will provide. We don't have exact casualty figure in India - Rajnath
India will lend full support to Nepal, says Home Minister Rajnath Singh
The USGS has again revised the magnitude of the first earthquake to 7.8. Also, so far 15 aftershocks have been recorded in Nepal with magnitudes ranging from 4.5 to 6.6
Climbers on Mount Everest were also caught in the major earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday. "We got caught in an earthquake on Everest. We are both ok...snowing here so no choppers coming," an AFP reporter said in an SMS on approach to base camp while on assignment.
Death toll due to earthquake in Bihar has reached 15 - ANI
High-level emergency meeting on crisis management for earthquake has begun at PM Modi's residence 7, RCR.
PM Shri @narendramodi chairing high-level meeting to review situation following earthquake in Nepal pic.twitter.com/kTHtwWVcTB — PIB India (@PIB_India) April 25, 2015

 
No information of serious damage has reached us yet: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar
In Kathmandu 71 have been reported dead so far: Home Ministry spokesman Laxmi Prasad Dhakal to AFP
Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has tweeted that he has directed officials to take steps to restore communication lines on Indo-Nepal border.
NDRF teams have been deployed in several districts of Bihar to help citizens in the wake of the earthquake.
PM speaks to Nepal PM, Shri Sushil Koirala and assures him of all assistance to deal with the situation arising due to the Earthquake – PIB tweet
Spoke to PM Sushil Koirala, who is in transit in Bangkok on his way to Kathmandu. Assured all support & assistance during this tough time. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 25, 2015

Most grateful to the immediate offer of assistance from India, both from the PM and the HM - Deep K Upadhyay
We need mobile medical assistant units from India. We are requesting for it now. And rescue help as well - Deep K Upadhyay
There is serious damage in Kathmandu valley and adjoining districts – Nepal's envoy to India Deep K Upadhyay  
36 bodies have been counted in Kathmandu civil hospital, reports Reuters.
PM Modi is in contact with us, have assured that his government will provide full support in this moment of crisis - Deep K Upadhyay
From reports of social media and other sources, around 100 people have lost their lives, numbers may increase, says Nepal's envoy to India Deep K Upadhyay.
CNN quotes Nepal's Ministry of Home Affairs as saying that 150 people have been killed in the earthquake disaster.
CNN says 150 people have been killed in Nepal.
AFP is quoting a Nepali diplomat as saying that 'possibly hundreds are dead' in the massive Nepal earthquake.
Deep Kumar Upadhyay, Nepal's envoy to India, says his government has requested the Indian government for assistance.
Tremors were also felt in Bhutan's capital Thimphu; however, there are no reports of any major damage or casualties.
Home Minister Rajnath Singh and MoS Home have met PM Narendra Modi and briefed him on the situation.
Reports say as many as 10 people were killed in Nepal's picturesque Pokhara area following the huge earthquake.
All flights from India to Nepal have been cancelled as the Kathmandu airport is shut in the wake of a series of earthquakes.
IANS reports that a total of five people, including two children, were killed when buildings collapsed in different parts of Bihar following the earthquake. The two children of the same family died in a wall collapse in Bhagalpur. One person each were killed in Sitamarhi, Darbhanga and Vaishali.
The Ministry of Defence said that the Indian Army, Air Force and Border Roads Organisation have been put on high alert following the massive earthquake that shook Nepal and northern India.
The tremor was also felt in Manipur today.
Tremors were also felt in several parts of Odisha triggering panic among the people.
The north coastal Andhra Pradesh experienced mild tremors following the powerful earthquake that struck Nepal and parts of north and northeast India. However, no casualty or damage to property were reported.
Nepal's information minister has told BBC that there has been massive damage in Gorkha, Lamjung and Bhaktapur.
Helpline numbers to contact Indian Embassy in Nepal's Kathmandu are: 00977-9851107021; 00977-9851135141
Relief and rescue operations are underway in Nepal where scores have been killed in a series of earthquake on Saturday.
Many mountaineers are reported to be missing on Mount Everest which has been hit be several avalanches in the wake of the quake.
As per USGS, there have been eight aftershocks so far ranging from magnitude 4.5 to 6.6.  
There are also reports of houses collapsing in Tibet.
Houses have collapsed in UP's Kushinagar due to the quake.
Two people have died in Jalpaiguri due to a wall collapse; one person has died in Bihar's Bettiah also due to a wall collapse, reports ANI.
The PM is out of the country, expect him to return, don't know how many dead or extent of damage - Lokendra Bahadur
Kathmandu's Durbar Square after a massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal.
BASANTAPUR DURBAR SQUARE IS GONE!!! pic.twitter.com/HnauT0fDia — Kashish Das Shrestha (@kashishds) April 25, 2015
Lot of damage in Kathmandu according to reports. Mobile network isn't working properly so communication has been affected, says former Nepal PM Lokendra Bahadur Chand.
Two people have died in Sitamarhi, Bihar - RP Rudy
Power has been switched off in North Bihar for safety reasons - RP Rudy
PM Modi has put disaster management teams on standby, he is monitoring the situation, says BJP leader RP Rudy.
Nepali media reports that around 50 people are trapped in the rubble of the collapsed Dharahara Tower, and not 400 as reported earlier.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has, meanwhile, spoken to Nepali President Ram Baran Yadav and discussed the situation in the wake of the quakes.
Scores have died in Nepal due to the quake, Nepali media has reported with TV visuals showing bodies lying on the roads.
West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee says she is monitoring situation in the state.
Two death are also being reported from Bihar Dharbhanga.
Two people have reportedly died in UP's Barabanki due to earthquake-related events, while one person has also been killed in Jalpaiguri in West Bengal.
An emergency meeting of National Crisis Management committee headed by the Indian Cabinet Secretary has been called.
There is no preliminary report of damage anywhere in India due to the quake. Government has placed its disaster response agencies on full alert, says Home Minister Rajnath Singh.
There are reports that the quakes have triggered avalanches in Mount Everest region. Base camp of mountaineers is also reported to have been hit.
Many historic temples have also been reduced to rubble in Nepal, say reports.
Kathmandu airport has been shut post the earthquake; all flights have been diverted to India
Earthquake in Delhi. I appeal to people to maintain calm. Officials out in the field to assess the situation – Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweets
A part of building has collapsed in Siliguri, West Bengal, due to the quake, reports ANI.
Nepal's Lamjung, the epicentre of the quake, has reportedly flattened and only few buildings there are believed to be standing.
There are reports of cracks developing at the airport in Kathmandu.
Dharahara Tower / Bhimsen Tower, a 19th century nine-storey tall tower in Kathmandu, has collapsed, say reports. Nearly 400 people are believed to be trapped.
Reuters is reporting at least two deaths in the Nepal quake so far.
The PMO has also spoken to the Indian Embassy in Bhutan in the wake of the earthquake. Embassy is in touch with top Bhutan officials as well – PMO tweet
PM Modi has spoken to Sikkim CM Pawan Chamling, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar and Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav in the wake of the earthquake.  
PMO has tweeted that PM Modi has convened a high-level meeting with ministers and top officials at 3 pm today in the wake of the situation arising due to the earthquake.
PM Modi has instructed Rajiv Pratap Rudy to take stock of situation in Bihar/UP districts along Nepal border.
On instructions of PM Modi, all disaster management mechanisms have been activated in districts of Bihar/UP along Nepal border.
News agency IANS has reported that at least one person was killed when an old building collapsed in the premises of the Indian consulate in Kathmandu. The dead person was a Nepalese national, according to a Nepal-based journalist.
The USGS has upgraded the magnitude of the first Nepal earthquake to 7.9 with a depth of 15 kilometres.
Over 6.6 mil people are in the area affected by #Nepalquake. Widespread damage & destruction of infrastructure feared pic.twitter.com/XNibOvHE3x — UN OCHA Asia Pacific (@OCHAAsiaPac) April 25, 2015
Dozens of people with injuries are being rushed to the main hospital in central Kathmandu. There are however no immediate estimate on fatalities.
News agency Associated Press is reporting that walls have toppled and buildings have collapsed in Kathmandu.
Authorities are not ruling out more aftershocks.
Sources say major damage is expected at the epicentre of the quake.
Information is being collected from all districts, everyone is on the field - Nitish Kumar
Bihar CM Nitish Kumar has asked the state administration to asses the situation following tremors.  
The quakes were also felt in parts of Nepal, say reports.
Stampede has been reported from Kutchery in Varanasi following the earthquake. More details are awaited.
Tremors were also felt in North India, in cities like Delhi and Jaipur - Rathore
The aftershock was of 6.6 magnitude and epicentre was at around the same place near Lamjung in Nepal - Rathore
The intensity of the initial quake was 5 in Delhi - Rathore
Earthquake of magnitude 7.5 was felt in north-west of Kathmandu, intense tremors felt in Bihar and West Bengal - LS Rathore, DG, Met department
The BBC reports some buildings have been damaged in the quake in Nepal but there has been no initial word on any casualties.

Earthquake of magnitude 7.5 occurred today at 11.41 am between latitude 28.1 North and Longitude 84.6 East. The epicentre was located in Nepal, an IMD statement said.
A major aftershock is being experienced in North India.
Mobile phone services affected across Nepal.
Delhi Metro services were briefly suspended after the quake.

There are reports of widespread damage in Nepal.
People were seen rushing out of their homes and offices.
The tremors in Delhi were felt for over a minute.
In India, tremors were felt in Delhi-NCR, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, West Bengal and Sikkim.
The magnitude of the quake in Nepal was recorded at 7.5 on the Richter scale, as per the USGS.
As per the United States Geological Survey (USGS), the epicentre of the quake was at a place in Nepal 34 kilometres south-east of Lamjung and 77 kilometres north-west of capital Kathmandu. The depth of the quake was 10 kilometres.
A major earthquake has struck the North and Northeast India just before noon.






        First Published: Saturday, April 25, 2015 - 11:53    





TAGS:

EarthquakeNarendra Modi Government Newsmajor earthquakeNorth IndiaNepalLamjungtremorsDelhiNCR





More from zeenews

  


India
 
 Mamata slams media for criticising meet with Modi 

 Gadkari's urine therapy theory aided by scientific study: NGO 

 Gadkari's urine therapy theory aided by scientific study: NGO 
 More from  India

World


 
 US to discuss pause in Yemen fighting with Saudis: Kerry  

 At least 80 Yemenis killed in Aden violence: Rescue workers  

 Gay couple win UK surrogacy battle over baby girl 
 
More from  World

Sports


 
 2015 UEFA Champions League, 2nd semi-final: Barcelona vs Bayern Munich – Preview 

 UEFA Champions League, 2nd semi-final: Barcelona vs Bayern Munich – Factfile 

 Maria Sharapova survives to oust Caroline Garcia in Madrid 
 
More from  Sports

Entertainment


 
 Moustachioed look in 'Bombay Velvet' was emotional for Karan Johar 

 Tyga violates concert rules, brings 17-year-old Kylie 

 Neha Sargam in talks for 'Begusarai' 
 
More from  Entertaiment

Health


 
 Mobility devices on the rise among older adults 

 Three-day Intrenational conference on Laparoscopic Surgery from May 14 

 Can't resist late-night snacking? Brain's the culprit! 
 
More from  Health









Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus





















 


You May Also Like





One year of NDA govt: BJP's 'Jan Kalyan Parv' to highlight welfare schemes 


PM Modi confident China visit will lay foundation for enhancing cooperation 


Sonia Gandhi slams PM Modi, terms his govt anti-farmer, arrogant 


Al Qaeda's India wing targets PM Narendra Modi, says he called for Muslims to be 'burnt alive' 

 



Rate Team Modi


Rate Modi government’s 11 warriors... 
RATE TEAM MODI



People Meter

Is ‘Acche Din’ for real? Vote Now!
PEOPLE METER





Photos - Best Moments

 PM Modi in Canada 

 

 
Videos






Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi in Parliament over farmers' issue 






Mann ki Baat: PM Modi expresses solidarity with people of Nepal 


Al Qaeda's India wing targets PM Modi in new video 

 
 


























contact
privacy
legal
disclaimer
register
job with us
complaint
investor info
Partner Site: DNA INDIA








news

Nation
State
World
South Asia
Sci Tech
Pics
Exclusive
Blogs
Archives





entertainment

Red Hot
Reviews
Movies
Glam Talk
Bookworm
TV
Celebrity
Romance
Pics
Videos
Add More
Exclusive
Blogs





sports

Cricket
Football
World
Motorsports
Golf
Others
Softspot
Debate
Blogs
Exclusive
Pics
Videos





business

Autos
Gadgets
Economy
Finance
Companies
Realestate
International
Technology
In Focus
Pics





health

News
Diseases
Fitness
Healthy Eating
Low Cal Recipes





bookworm

Latest Cover
Classics
Writer Profile
Enactments
Between The Lines
Book Review
Indian Award
Nobel Price
Booker Prize
Unforgettables





Recipes

Low Fat
Kitchen Tips
Storing Tips
Healing Food
Vegs
Non Vegs
Desserts
Drinks





Hindi

Home
देश
प्रदेश
दुनिया
खेल-खिलाड़ी
कारोबार
ज्ञान-विज्ञान
मनोरंजन
ज़ी स्पेशल
सेहत
तस्वीरें
वीडियो
भविष्यफल





Marathi

Home
मुंबई
महाराष्ट्र
भारत
विश्व
स्पोर्ट्स बार
कल्लाबाजी
हेल्थ मंत्रा
ब्लॉगर्स पार्क
युथ क्लब
Exclusive
फोटो
व्हिडिओ
भविष्य





Bengali

Home
Kolkata 
State
Nation
World
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Blogs
Health
Photos
Videos
Slideshows
Weather





Ayurveda

Home
Health News 
Introduction
History
Benefits
Herbs
Treatment 





Inverstors

Home
 About ZMCL 
Listing Document
Shareholding Pattern
Presentations & Releases
Board of Directors
Financials-Annual 
Financials-Quarterly
Q&A Transcripts
Code of Conduct
Notices










© 1998-2015 Zee Media Corporation Ltd (An Essel Group Company), All rights reserved.

















