Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 


Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV














Go
Search
















 Replay: 
PIX11 News 



PIX11 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV




 
Menu




NEWS


Local


Morning


Sports


PIX Team


Contests


Traffic


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
69°


High 
82°












Sat





					71° 
 86°
					






Sun





					74° 
 91°
					






Mon





					75° 
 92°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting




Posted 10:20 AM, June 18, 2015, by 
Tribune Media Wire
, 
Updated at 07:23pm, June 18, 2015
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
Email
Google
 












CHARLESTON, S.C. — He’s white, slightly built and in his early 20s — and police say he walked into a Charleston, South Carolina, church and fatally shot nine people as they attended Bible study class.


Dylann Storm Roof, 21


Dylann Storm Roof, 21, is 
now at the center of a major manhunt
, according to the The Post and Courier.


Police released a flier Thursday morning with details of the suspect in the attack on the historic African-American church as they appealed for help to track him down as quickly as possible.


According to reports, Roof is currently out on bond in connection with multiple recent arrests on drug and trespassing charges.


“The following subject is wanted for the shooting that occured in Charleston at the Emanuel AME Church. Subject is Dylann Storm Roof w/m 4/3/1994 5’9” 120 lbs. The subject should be driving a 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS, SC registration LGF330. The vehicle is dark-colored. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous and caution should be used if seen. “


Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen told a news conference that officers “have obtained surveillance videos of the suspect in this case and a suspect vehicle.”


Mullen said the suspect was a “younger white male between 21 and 25 years of age, 5-foot-9 in height” and “has a very distinctive sweatshirt that has markings.”


Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.


Mullen emphasized the suspect is “a very dangerous individual” and said “he should not be approached by anyone.”


Any people who recognize the suspect or spots the vehicle should alert law enforcement, he said, rather than trying to follow themselves.


Woman spared by shooter to give account?


A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.


Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night. Scott added that she didn’t know if the survivor had ended up at the hospital or being questioned by police.


Because of the church’s historic significance, it is not unusual for visitors, whether white or black, to visit it, Scott said. She said she’d had no indication that any children were among the victims.


Mullen told the news conference the suspect had been in the church attending a meeting that was going on — and “stayed there almost an hour with the group before the actual event.”


But he declined to comment on whether the suspect had let one woman escape.


Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.


‘Distinctive’ license plate


The suspect was seen leaving the church in a black four-door sedan, the flier says. “The vehicle you will see has a very distinctive front license plate,” Mullen added.


He appealed for the media to help in circulating the suspect’s image and for the public to be vigilant. The clean-shaven man pictured wears a gray sweatshirt over a white T-shirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.


“No one in this community will ever forget this night and as a result of this and because of the pain and the hurt this individual has caused this entire community, the law enforcement agents are committed and we will catch this individual,” Mullen said.


Charleston Mayor Joe Riley echoed that sentiment, saying everything must be done to find a culprit he described as “somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”


The man is a “no-good, horrible person” who must be taken into custody as soon as possible, he said. “Of course we will make sure he pays the price for this horrible act.”


Wednesday night’s attack at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is being investigated as a hate crime. All the victims, who include the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, were black. Six of those killed were female and three male.






Related stories




Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime










Filed in:
 
News
 
Topics:
 
Charleston
, 
Church
, 
Dylann Roof
, 
Shooting
, 
South Carolina
, 
suspect
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Watch NJ Lottery drawings live


Winning numbers and daily results
















 




 






Popular








NBA great Darryl Dawkins has died at 58 years old








Video showing shootings of WDBJ crew posted under Bryce Williams Twitter, Facebook accounts








Reporter, photographer shot to death on air in Virginia








‘Dead’ teen ‘wakes up’ screaming, banging inside coffin; family smashes tomb
















 






Latest News








Calif. man bitten while taking selfie with rattlesnake








CEO of Ashley Madison parent company steps down after hack








WATCH IT: Sinkhole swallows 5 people in China is captured on video








How a 15-year-old changed his life, lost 165 pounds in one year












 


























News




Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’






News




Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened






News




Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm






News




Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?






News




Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre








 






News




Not guilty plea in federal court for church shooting suspect Dylann Roof






News




Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter






News




Official: S.C. church shooting suspect to face hate crime charge






News




Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source






News




‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral








 






News




FBI says Dylann Roof should not have been cleared to purchase a weapon






News




Officers bought Burger King for Dylann Roof after arrest






News




Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 5,004 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com


















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







































