NAACP president releases statement on Charleston church mass sho - Live5News.com | Charleston, SC | News, Weather, SportsNAACP president releases statement on Charleston church mass sho - Live5News.com | Charleston, SC | News, Weather, Sports
NAACP president releases statement on Charleston church mass sho - Live5News.com | Charleston, SC | News, Weather, Sports
Member Center:
Create Account
|
Log In
Manage Account
|
Log Out




SITE SEARCH
WEB SEARCH BY 








HOME
Video
Consumer Recalls
Check This Out!
Gas Prices
Most Wanted
Slideshows
Good News
Live 5 Contests
Say What?
50th anniversary: Selma-to-Montgomery march
Nominate a Community Builder
Letterman: A Look Back
Walter Scott Shooting
NEWS
Charleston County News
Berkeley County News
Dorchester County News
Colleton County News
Beaufort County News
SC News Now
Live 5 Investigates
Campaign 2015
5 On Your Side
Consumer Recalls
Charleston Church Shooting
Back to School News
Local Crime News
Walter Scott Shooting
National News
International
Weather
Live 5 Future Tracker
Live Super Doppler MAX
Interactive Radar
Live 5 Weather SkyCams
Red's Ice House Cam
Hurricane Center
Radar & Satellite Center
10-Day Forecast
Alerts
National Weather
Storm Reports
Terminix Mosquito Forecast
Storm Chasing Blog
SPORTS
SEC
Friday Night Lights
NFL
USC
Clemson
CSU
SC State
The Citadel
CofC
Riverdogs
Battery
Stingrays
NCAA Tournament
Family Circle Cup
Video
Watch Live 5 News
Traffic
Traffic News
Gas Prices
SCDOT Traffic Cameras
Around Town
Local Events Calendar
James Island Connector Run
Cooper River Bridge Run
Charleston Fashion Week
Entertainment
Health
Health Stories
Closing The Gap
Health Tips
Affordable Care Act
Measles outbreak in US
Ebola outbreak
What's On
TV Schedule
Live 5 WCSC
Live 5 Plus
Bounce Charleston
Watch CBS Shows
Watch Live National News
Children's Programming
About Us
Live 5 Staff
Reporters
Weather Team
News Anchors
Sports Team
Advertising Info
TV Schedule
WCSC Job Openings
Submit a News Tip
WCSC EEO Report
Watch CBS Shows
















NAACP president releases statement on Charleston church mass shooting


Posted: 



Thursday, June 18, 2015 8:04 AM EDT


Updated: 



Thursday, June 18, 2015 8:04 AM EDT


By Philip Weiss
Email
Connect
Pweiss@live5news.com
Follow @PhilipLive5






Clementa Pinckney served as pastor at Emanuel AME Church. (Photo: Emanuel AME)


Photo of suspect wanted in the Wednesday night's fatal shooting. (Source: CPD)






CHARLESTON, SC (WCSC) -
            
The NAACP has released a statement citing their "outrage" over Wednesday night's shooting at Emanuel AME Church in downtown Charleston that left nine people dead. 
Wednesday's fatal shooting occurred around 9 p.m. at Emanuel AME Church, located at 110 Calhoun Street, after police say a young white man opened fire on parishioners, killing nine and leaving three survivors. 
Among the dead was South Carolina Senator and Emanuel AME Pastor Clementa Pinckney, according to Elder James Johnson with the National News Network. 
NAACP President and CEO Cornell William Brooks released the following statement detailing his outrage over the shooting, and condolences for the victims: 
"The NAACP was founded to fight against racial hatred, and we are outraged that 106 years later, we are faced today with another mass hate crime. Our heartfelt prayers and soul-deep condolences go out to the families and community of the victims at Charleston's historic Emanuel AME Church. The senselessly slain parishioners were in a church for Wednesday night bible study. There is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people engaged in the study of scripture. Today, I mourn as an AME minister, as a student and teacher of scripture, as well as a member of the NAACP.
The NAACP South Carolina State Conference and Charleston Branch have been working on the ground with police and the community to bring this case to a close. We remain vigilant while the local police and FBI investigate this hate crime and bring the shooter to justice
."
Authorities are searching for the suspect, who fled the scene following the mass shooting. 
The Charleston County Coroner's Office has not yet identified the other victims in the attack. 
Copyright 2015 WCSC. All rights reserved. 


















NAACP president releases statement on Charleston church mass shooting
More>>
Full Coverage - Charleston Church Shooting
Full Coverage - Charleston Church Shooting
Click here for complete coverage of the shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston that left nine people dead.
More >>
Click here for complete coverage of the shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston that left nine people dead.
More >>






















NEWS Local
NEWS
More>>


FIRST ALERT WEATHER: Erika's track moves further west, could still impact Lowcountry
FIRST ALERT WEATHER: Erika's track moves further west, could still impact Lowcountry
Updated: 
Friday, August 28 2015 11:40 AM EDT
2015-08-28 15:40:56 GMT
Projected path of Tropical Storm Erika
The latest track for Tropical storm Erika, which is no longer expected to become a hurricane, shows another slight shift to the west.
More >>
The latest track for Tropical storm Erika, which is no longer expected to become a hurricane, shows another slight shift to the west.
More >>
BREAKING
SLED conducting full investigation into incident involving Dorchester Co. coroner
SLED conducting full investigation into incident involving Dorchester Co. coroner
Updated: 
Friday, August 28 2015 10:52 AM EDT
2015-08-28 14:52:07 GMT
Dorchester County Coroner Chris Nisbet (Photo Source: Live 5)
The State Law Enforcement Division has expanded a preliminary inquiry into a full investigation of an incident involving the Dorchester County coroner.
More >>
The State Law Enforcement Division has expanded a preliminary inquiry into a full investigation of an incident involving the Dorchester County coroner.
More >>
Anderson Co. man found guilty of murder, crimes connected to kidnapping plot
Anderson Co. man found guilty of murder, crimes connected to kidnapping plot
Posted: 
Thursday, August 27 2015 8:15 PM EDT
2015-08-28 00:15:19 GMT
Updated: 
Thursday, August 27 2015 8:17 PM EDT
2015-08-28 00:17:32 GMT
Bobby Joe Arflin (Source: Anderson Co. Sheriff's Office)
An Anderson County jury convicted Bobby Joe Arflin of murdering an Iva man and crimes connected to a thwarted kidnapping plot. 
More >>
An Anderson County jury convicted Bobby Joe Arflin of murdering an Iva man and crimes connected to a thwarted kidnapping plot. 
More >>
Solar energy company investing $20.4M in Lexington County
Solar energy company investing $20.4M in Lexington County
Posted: 
Thursday, August 27 2015 3:58 PM EDT
2015-08-27 19:58:56 GMT
Updated: 
Thursday, August 27 2015 4:04 PM EDT
2015-08-27 20:04:14 GMT
(Source: Cypresscreekrenewables.com)
A company that specializes in solar energy projects is establishing two new operations in Lexington County, the SC Department of Commerce announced Thursday.
More >>
A company that specializes in solar energy projects is establishing two new operations in Lexington County, the SC Department of Commerce announced Thursday.
More >>
DNR holding public meetings on new deer hunting proposal
DNR holding public meetings on new deer hunting proposal
Posted: 
Thursday, August 27 2015 9:01 AM EDT
2015-08-27 13:01:34 GMT
Photo source: SC DNR
South Carolina wildlife officials are holding a series of public meetings to get input on proposed legislation that would limit deer hunting in the state.
More >>
South Carolina wildlife officials are holding a series of public meetings to get input on proposed legislation that would limit deer hunting in the state.
More >>
 
 




























Can't Find Something? 










2126 Charlie Hall Boulevard
Charleston SC 29407


(843) 402-5555






FCC Public File


publicfile@live5news.com


(843) 402-5555


EEO Report


Closed Captioning






















Texas News Now













				All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015 WorldNow and WCSC. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our 
Privacy Policy
 and 
Terms of Service
.
        	















