 For Charleston’s Emanuel AME Church, shooting is another painful chapter in rich history - The Washington Post 
 For Charleston’s Emanuel AME Church, shooting is another painful chapter in rich history - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
Marketplaces
 
 
 
WP BrandConnect
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign In
 
 
 
 
 
Username
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subscribe
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home Page
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
 
 
PowerPost
 
 
 
The Fix
 
 
 
Govbeat
 
 
 
The Fed Page
 
 
 
White House
 
 
 
Courts and Law
 
 
 
Polling
 
 
 
Monkey Cage
 
 
 
Fact Checker
 
 
 
Federal Eye
 
 
 
Post Politics Blog
 
 
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
 
 
Toles Cartoons
 
 
 
Telnaes Animations
 
 
 
The Post's View
 
 
 
Letters to the Editor
 
 
 
Act Four
 
 
 
All Opinions Are Local
 
 
 
Book Party
 
 
 
Compost
 
 
 
Erik Wemple
 
 
 
Five Myths
 
 
 
Plum Line
 
 
 
PostEverything
 
 
 
PostPartisan
 
 
 
Rampage
 
 
 
Right Turn
 
 
 
The Watch
 
 
 
Volokh Conspiracy
 
 
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Redskins
 
 
 
NFL
 
 
 
Nationals
 
 
 
Wizards
 
 
 
Capitals
 
 
 
Fantasy Sports
 
 
 
D.C. Sports Bog
 
 
 
Fancy Stats
 
 
 
Early Lead
 
 
 
AllMetSports
 
 
 
D.C. United
 
 
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
D.C.
 
 
 
Maryland
 
 
 
Virginia
 
 
 
Public Safety
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
Transportation
 
 
 
Weather
 
 
 
Acts of Faith
 
 
 
Inspired Life
 
 
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
 
 
Health and Science
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
Investigations
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
Morning Mix
 
 
 
Post Nation
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
 
 
Africa
 
 
 
The Americas
 
 
 
Asia and Pacific
 
 
 
Europe
 
 
 
Middle East
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
WorldViews
 
 
 
Checkpoint
 
 
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
 
 
Wonkblog
 
 
 
On Leadership
 
 
 
Personal Finance
 
 
 
Digger
 
 
 
Energy and Environment
 
 
 
Markets
 
 
 
On Small Business
 
 
 
World Business
 
 
 
Know More
 
 
 
Capital Business
 
 
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
 
 
On I.T.
 
 
 
The Switch
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
 
 
Advice
 
 
 
Carolyn Hax
 
 
 
Food
 
 
 
Style Blog
 
 
 
Travel
 
 
 
Weddings
 
 
 
Wellness
 
 
 
Magazine
 
 
 
Home and Garden
 
 
 
Fashion
 
 
 
KidsPost
 
 
 
On Parenting
 
 
 
Reliable Source
 
 
 
The Intersect
 
 
 
Solo-ish
 
 
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
 
 
Books
 
 
 
Comics
 
 
 
Going Out Guide
 
 
 
Horoscopes
 
 
 
Movies
 
 
 
Museums
 
 
 
Music
 
 
 
Puzzles and Games
 
 
 
Theater and Dance
 
 
 
TV
 
 
 
Comic Riffs
 
 
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
 
 
Live
 
 
 
Top News
 
 
 
Popular Video
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Technology
 
 
 
Style
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
Buy a Home
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Sell a Home
 
 
 
Tools and Calculators
 
 
 
Where We Live
 
 
 
 
 
Photography
 
 
 
 
 
In Sight
 
 
 
 
 
Live Chats
 
 
 
Marketplaces
 
 
 
 
 
Jobs
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Cars
 
 
 
Classifieds
 
 
 
 
 
WP BrandConnect
 
 
 
Partners
 
 
 
 
 
Express
 
 
 
WP Wine Club
 
 
 
El Tiempo Latino
 
 
 
Parade
 
 
 
Fashion Washington
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Terms of Service
 
 
 
Privacy Policy
 
 
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
 
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
 
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
 
 
Share on Twitter
 
 
Share on Google Plus
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
More Options
 
 
 
Share on Whatsapp
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Morning Mix
 
For Charleston’s Emanuel AME Church, shooting is another painful chapter in rich history
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
 
Print Article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
Sarah Kaplan
 
June 18
 
 
Follow @sarahkaplan48
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this clip from an unreleased documentary about African Methodism in South Carolina, Rev. Clementa Pinckney and others discuss the role of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. (Rev. Mark Kelly Tyler)
 
 
 
 
When a gunman opened fire inside Charleston’s Emanuel AME Church Wednesday, shooting worshipers gathered for a mid-week prayer meeting, it was as though history repeated itself.
 
This historic congregation, the oldest of its kind in the South, had already seen more than its fair share of tumult and hate. It was founded by worshipers fleeing racism and burned to the ground for its connection with a thwarted slave revolt. For years, its meetings were conducted in secret to evade laws that banned all-black services. It was jolted by an earthquake in 1886. Civil rights luminaries spoke from its pulpit and led marches from its steps. For nearly 200 years it had been the site of struggle, resistance and change.
 
On Wednesday, the church was a crime scene — the street outside aglow with the flashing red lights of police cars and echoing with the screech of sirens. Nine people had been killed there, including the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney.
 
[
9 dead in ‘hate crime’ shooting at prayer meeting at historic Charleston African American church
] 
 
“I do believe this was a hate crime,” Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen said at a news conference early Thursday.
 
To those watching in Charleston and from afar, it was devastating.
 
“It’s not just a church. It’s also a symbol … of black freedom,” said Robert Greene, who studies the 20th century South at the University of South Carolina. “That’s why so many folks are so upset tonight, because it’s a church that represents so much about the rich history and tradition of African Americans in Charleston.”
 
 
 
 
Senior Pastor, Rev. Clementa Pinckney, speaks to those gathered during the Watch Night service at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston on Dec. 31, 2012. (Randall Hill/Reuters)
 
 
In Charleston, the church 
is affectionately known as
 “Mother Emanuel,” a nod to its age and its eminence in the community. It is a place people take pride in, said the Rev. Stephen Singleton, who was pastor there from 2006 to 2010 — all soaring ceilings and fine pinewood floors, with an antique pipe organ that had been shipped from Europe more than a century ago.
 
“They’re just God-fearing people,” Singleton said of his former congregation. “People who lived in modesty in light of the history of the congregation they called home.”
 
“Where you are is a very special place in Charleston,” the most recent pastor, Clementa Pinckney, 
told a group of visitors
 two years ago. “It’s a very special place because this site, this area, has been tied to the history and life of African Americans since about the early 1800s.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 of 53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Screen
 
Autoplay
 
 
Close
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skip Ad
 
 
 
×
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shooting at historic African American church in South Carolina
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Photos
 
 
 
Officials said nine people were killed and others injured by a gunman at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston.
 
 
 
 
Caption
 
 
 
Officials said nine people were killed and others injured by a gunman at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston.
 
 
June 19, 2015
 
In this image from video, suspect Dylann Roof appears by closed-circuit televison at his bond hearing in Charleston, S.C.
 
Pool/Reuters
 
 
Buy Photo
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wait 1 second to continue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That history is a long and storied one. The congregation was founded in the era of slavery by Morris Brown, a founding pastor of the African Methodist Episcopal Church. In 1816, frustrated with the racism he encountered in Charleston’s segregated churches, Brown decided to form a church of his own. About 4,000 parishioners followed him — more than 75 percent of the city’s black community, according to a 
history
 published by the College of Charleston.
 
From the beginning, the congregation was a focal point of community organizing and anti-slavery activism — provoking fears and intense distrust among the city’s white population. 
According to a PBS documentary
, white Charlestonians constantly monitored the church, sometimes disrupting services and arresting worshipers.
 
They had some reason for alarm: Denmark Vesey, the organizer of one of the nation’s most notable failed slave uprisings, was a leader in the church. He fiercely and insistently preached that African Americans were the new Israelites, that their enslavement would be punished with death, and in 1822 he and other leaders began plotting a rebellion.
 
 
 
 
 
A prayer circle formed following a shooting that left 9 dead at an historic African American church in Charleston, S.C. (Robert Costa and Nick Kirkpatrick/The Washington Post)
 
 
 
 
The revolt was planned for June 16 — 193 years and one day before the shooting Wednesday night. But another member of the church, a slave named George Wilson, told his master about the plot. Nearly three dozen organizers — including Vesey — were put on trial and executed, while another 60 were banished from the city. Believing that “black religion” had caused the uprising, South Carolina instituted a series of draconian measures against African American churches and communities, including a ban on services conducted without a white person present. The Charleston AME congregation was dispersed and their building set ablaze.
 
After the end of the Civil War, the AME congregation — which had been conducting services in secret for decades and worked as part of the Underground Railroad — was formally reestablished and adopted the name Emanuel. Parishioners rebuilt their church on Calhoun Street, a half mile away from Fort Sumter, where the Civil War’s first shots were fired and, a block from the 
square
 that had been a military marching ground during the Civil War and the site of a celebratory parade of African American residents once the conflict ended.
 
When that wooden building was destroyed in a 1886 earthquake, the congregation replaced it with the stately Gothic revival structure seen today.
 
 
 
#EmanuelAME
 Church offered a place of worship and escape from Jim Crow dehumanization. 
#CharlestonShooting
 
pic.twitter.com/MxFjJKh7RU
 
— Khaled Bey (@KhaledBeydoun) 
June 18, 2015
 
 
The church’s activism resumed along with services, and by the 20th century it had become a focal point of South Carolina’s civil rights movement.
 
Booker T. Washington 
spoke there
 in 1909 to a large audience of both white and black admirers. In 1962, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. 
gave a speech
 about voting rights and making the “American dream a reality.” So did Roy Wilkins, as executive secretary of the NAACP. In 1969, as Charleston was in the midst of a massive strike aimed at creating a union for the state’s mostly black hospital workers, Coretta Scott King 
led a march
 from Emanuel AME’s steps while 1,000 state troopers and national guardsmen looked on.
 
“If there was any sort of civil rights protest or activity in Charleston it was almost always centered around that church,” Greene said.
 
 
 
Dr. King at 
#EmanuelAME
. 
#HistoricBlackChurch
 
#CivilRightsMovement
 
#CharlestonShooting
 
pic.twitter.com/Iu3ihGjQ2V
 
— The King Center (@TheKingCenter) 
June 18, 2015
 
 
Singleton, the former pastor of Emanuel AME, said the church was still a place for political organizing when he was there. Politicians often dropped in, he recalled. Parishioners organized for community issues.
 
Pinckney, 41, the pastor who was killed in the church when the gunman opened fire, was even more active. For more than a decade he’d served as a member of the South Carolina State Senate. He 
was an advocate
 for a bill in the state legislature that would require police officers to wear body cameras, calling it “our No. 1 priority,” 
according to the Charleston Post and Courier
.
 
For many, the initial response was one of shock.
 
“If we’re not safe in the church, God, you tell us where we are safe,” a mourner at a prayer circle 
told a reporter for MSNBC
.
 
But Robert Mickey, a University of Michigan political scientist who studies race and politics in the post-War South, noted that activist African American churches have been targeted before.
 
“They’ve been sites of black protest and community organizing, and they have long been targets as well,” he said, noting the 
long list of racist attacks on black churches
, particularly the 1963 bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Ala.
 
The gunman on Wednesday, who police said was about 21 years old, may not have been aware of that history, Mickey added. But the congregation at Emanuel AME, as well as the thousands of people who watched the news of the killings there in horror, certainly did.
 
“When you’re on the receiving end of the violence it’s pretty hard not to put it in that context,” Mickey said. “You can’t help but notice the continuities, the violence and fear that constantly these revisit these same communities.”
 
Others agreed:
 
 
 
That myth was shattered in 1963 when the 16th Street Baptist church in b'ham was bombed. RT 
@ShawnRTV6
: Churches aren't even safe anymore.
 
— Kennan Oliphant (@TVNewsGuru) 
June 18, 2015
 
 
 
 
The shooting of the AME church almost mirrors the bombing of 16th street baptist church back in 63..52 years ago..why haven't we progressed?
 
— Victoria Watt (@ImWattsHappenin) 
June 18, 2015
 
 
But Singleton said that the attack on his old church “should be dealt with as an individual,” not as part of some broader trend.
 
“I think the comparison that you can draw from it is, evil is real and it’s prevalent all over the place,” he said, adding, “I want to encourage people of faith to be prayerful. Embrace our faith and embrace each other.”
 
Singleton, who preaches in Columbia, S.C., now, said he’ll heading back to Charleston in the next few days. He wants to visit his old congregation, he said, to pay his respects to those who were killed and the church that has had another painful chapter added to its history.
 
“That church has a legacy, and it won‘t be destroyed because of this,” he said, firmly. “Chances are it’ll probably come out stronger.”
 
Related:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sarah Kaplan is a reporter for Morning Mix.
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Twitter
Tweet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
✕
 
Thank you for signing up
 
You'll receive e-mail when new stories are published in this series.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 National
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
The incredible life and haunting death of world traveler Harry Devert
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
The ‘saddest bride I have ever seen': Child marriage is as popular as ever in Bangladesh
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
The ‘self-fulfilling prophecy’ of stereotyping Asian American students
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
Videos deceptively edited, Planned Parenthood tells Congress
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
A frenzy in Poland over the latest mysterious ‘Nazi gold train’
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Most 
Popular All Over
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Atlantic
 
 
 
 
The Coddling of the American Mind
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TIME
 
 
 
 
North Carolina Cop Will Not Face Retrial for Fatal Shooting of Black Man
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christian Science Monitor
 
 
 
 
Butterflies in space? Hubble beams back specular image of iridescent 'wings'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Slate
 
 
 
 
The Story Behind the One-Pan, Nine-Minute Pasta Recipe That Took Over the Internet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Insider
 
 
 
 
A financial planner ranks your debts from most to least urgent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fast Company
 
 
 
 
Google's Secret Strategy To Recruit Engineers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Welle
 
 
 
 
Approach of tropical storm Erika puts Florida in state of emergency
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Hill
 
 
 
 
Pollsters dumbfounded by Trump
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salon
 
 
 
 
The GOP's nuclear option for Donald Trump: Why the only way to beat him is so scary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fusion
 
 
 
 
Jorge Ramos to Megyn Kelly on Trump: ‘He tried to silence me'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NY Magazine
 
 
 
 
If These Girls Knew That Slender Man Was a Fantasy, Why Did They Want to Kill Their Friend for Him?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grist
 
 
 
 
Hey, Burning Man: Your desert party sucks for the rest of us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WBUR (Boston)
 
 
 
 
A Recipe For Longevity? Beans, Friends, Purpose And Movement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Baltimore Sun
 
 
 
 
Maryland state superintendent resigns for new job
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Journal Sentinel (Milwaukee)
 
 
 
 
Stevie Ray Vaughan's legend lives on 25 years after death
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Denver Post
 
 
 
 
Police locate semi that hit four bridges on I-25 in Denver
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honolulu Star Advertiser
 
 
 
 
Ignacio on track to pass near Hawaii; Jimena also a hurricane
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Business Times
 
 
 
 
Prosecco: Everything you need to know about the UK's favourite sparkling wine
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Most
 Popular stories around the web 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Help and Contact Us
 
Terms of Service
 
Privacy Policy
 
Print Products Terms of Sale
 
Digital Products Terms of Sale
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Next Story
Postal workers accused of using 'Operation Santa' for personal gain
Will Greenberg
 · 
June 18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
Terms of Service
 and 
Privacy Policy
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
Sign in
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
Return to Article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 