Charleston shooting: Graham's niece knew suspect - CNNPolitics.comCharleston shooting: Graham's niece knew suspect - CNNPolitics.com
Breaking News
CNN
Toggle Search
Search
2016
Washington
Nation
World
Our Team
CNN.com
Lindsey Graham: Niece went to school with shooting suspect
By 
Maeve Reston
, CNN
Updated 1:24 PM ET, Thu June 18, 2015 
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) arrives for a Senate Armed Services Committee closed briefing July 30, 2014 in Washington, D.C. 
 (CNN)
Republican presidential candidate Lindsey Graham said his niece, Emily, was in an 8th grade English class with Dylann Roof, the suspect in the Charleston church massacre.
"He was quiet, strange, very unsocial and everyone thought he was on drugs," Graham, a U.S. Senator from South Carolina, said of the suspect in an telephone interview with CNN, relaying the description from his niece Emily and sister Darline Graham Nordone.
RELATED: Obama calls deaths in South Carolina church shooting 'senseless murders'
Graham, who is on his way to Charleston, said his niece did not recall Roof making any statements that were related to race.
"I just think he was one of these whacked out kids. I don't think it's anything broader than that," Graham said. "It's about a young man who is obviously twisted." 
"No one at home [in South Carolina] believes this represents us. We don't want to be judged by him," Graham said.  
Follow @CNNpolitics
 
Emanuel A.M.E. shooting
Dylann Roof pleads not guilty to federal charges
 'Symbolic maneuver' doesn't erase racism
A Charleston girl faces racial history
Dylann Roof to face hate crime charges
Who were the victims? 
Who is Dylann Roof?
Photos from the scene
More from Politics
The best of Donald Trump vs. Jeb Bush
Prominent ISIS recruiter killed in airstrike
Competitors grumble about Clinton vibe at DNC meeting
More from Maeve Reston
An earthquake is going to hit L.A. Then what?
Jeb Bush distinguishes himself from brother in handling of hurricanes
GOP's Bush and Trump have immigration showdown at border
Sections
2016
Washington
Nation
World
Our Team
Follow us
CNN.com
© 2015 Cable News Network. 
Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.
 All Rights Reserved. 
Terms of service
 | 
Privacy guidelines