Memphis shooting: Police chief says slain officer interrupted drug deal | FOX2now.com 


Memphis shooting: Police chief says slain officer interrupted drug deal | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
FOX 2 News  



FOX 2 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














FOX2now.com




 
Menu




News


Links


AM Show


Sports


Traffic


Contests


STLMoms


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
66°


High 
84°












Sat





					65° 
 87°
					






Sun





					65° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 91°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Memphis shooting: Police chief says slain officer interrupted drug deal




Posted 6:32 am, August 3, 2015, by 
CNN Wires
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
 








It started as a regular traffic stop on a weekend night in Tennessee. Officer Sean Bolton saw an illegally parked car on the streets of Memphis, pulled up in front of it and shone his spotlight.


When he approached the vehicle, a passenger confronted him.


A struggle ensued, and the passenger shot Bolton multiple times, authorities said. The car drove off, leaving the officer for dead.


“Officer Bolton apparently interrupted some sort of drug transaction,” Memphis Police Director Toney Armstrong said. “A digital scale and a small baggie of marijuana … were located inside of the vehicle.”


Suspect named


Memphis police identified Tremaine Wilbourn, 29, as the suspect. He is on the run, and considered armed and dangerous.


The violence was senseless given how mundane the stop was, Armstrong said.


“We’re talking about less than 2 grams of marijuana. You’re talking about a misdemeanor citation,” he said. “We probably would not have even transported for that.”


Bolton loved to read, work out


Nearby residents heard the gunshots late Saturday night and used Bolton’s radio to call for help. Emergency crews took him to a hospital in critical condition, where he was later pronounced dead.


Armstrong described the suspect as a “coward.”


“You gunned down, you murdered a police officer, for less than 2 grams of marijuana,” he said. “You literally destroyed a family.”


Friends described the Iraq veteran as a gentle man who did not believe in using force.


“For a police officer to have that kind of temperament, and to take such a cautious approach to the use of force, he was a credit to the uniform,” his friend Steve Clements told The Commercial Appeal newspaper in Memphis.


Bolton was quiet, and loved to read and go to the gym, friend Minda Klitzner told the paper.


So much so, he’d read in the car during road trips.


Fallen officers


Bolton, 33, is one of 19 officers killed nationwide this year by violent suspects. The deaths at the hands of suspects run the gamut — veterans and rookie officers — and span the nation — from Georgia to California


“Last night, we lost not only an officer, but a great man, a dedicated servant to our community and a family member,” Armstrong said.


This is the third time a Memphis police officer has been killed in the past four years.


Driver turns himself in


The vehicle’s driver later turned himself in and was released without charge.


Authorities are offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to Wilbourn’s arrest. He is out on supervised release for a 121-month sentence for robbery, according to Armstrong.


Bolton was turning 34 this month.


By Faith Karimi








Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














STL Moms!


A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.
















 




 






Popular








Suspect under arrest in Jamyla Bolden murder








3-year-old injured during shoot-out in north St. Louis








Suspected gunman kills self after killing journalists on air, police say








Reporter, photographer murdered after gunman opens fire during live shot
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








STLMoms: Shop for a Cause at Macy’s to benefit March of Dimes








Zip Rzeppa visits FOX 2








St. Louis Polo Charity Match to benefit the Endangered Wolf Center












 


























News




Memphis police officer killed during traffic stop; one person in custody






News




Slain police: Separated by thousands of miles, united by common dangers






Trending




5 things to know for your new day — Monday, August 3






News




Police looking for suspects in early morning ambush of police officer






News




South Carolina officer shoots unarmed white teen during pot bust








 






News




South Carolina officer shoots unarmed white teen during pot bust






News




Four suspects in custody for Central West End police shooting






News




Thousands of mourners to gather for funeral of NYPD officer Brian Moore






News




Police officer ambushed in Central West End; gunman at large






News




2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody








 






News




Shots fired at police during search for Caseyville bank robber






News




Dallas police HQ attack: Suspect shot after standoff






News




Investigation finished in police shooting in Cincinnati traffic stop














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


iPhone & iPad App


iPhone Weather App










Facebook


Twitter


Email Alerts


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































