Slain police: Separated by thousands of miles, united by common dangers | FOX2now.com 


Slain police: Separated by thousands of miles, united by common dangers | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
FOX 2 News  



FOX 2 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














FOX2now.com




 
Menu




News


Links


AM Show


Sports


Traffic


Contests


STLMoms


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
66°


High 
84°












Sat





					65° 
 87°
					






Sun





					65° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 91°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Slain police: Separated by thousands of miles, united by common dangers




Posted 7:18 am, May 11, 2015, by 
CNN Wires
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
 










Photo Gallery






 View Gallery (3 images)












 






Two officers slain during a traffic stop in Mississippi this weekend add to a gruesome tally. In shootings thousands of miles apart, under different circumstances, at least 10 law enforcement officers have been killed so far this year nationwide.


Thousands more face the same dangers and unknowns.


Last year, the number of law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty increased, according to the Washington-based National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund.


The nonprofit group found that 126 law enforcement officers died in the line of duty in 2014, compared with 102 the year before. Those numbers encompass various incidents, including illness, accidents — and shootings.


The number killed by firearms last year was 50, a rise from 32 the year before, according to the group.


“This is just a constant reminder … of the dangers of police work in this country,” said Cedric Alexander, police chief in DeKalb County, Georgia. “We can never ever forget the dangers and what they put on the line for us every day. They deserve our support.”


So far this year, 42 law enforcement officers have died in various incidents, including traffic-related, the group says.


Here are officers who died at the hands of violent suspects, starting with the most recent. They all occurred between March and May.


MISSISSIPPI


Officer Liquori Tate:


Since he was a little boy, Tate loved police cars and their flashing lights. After going to community college and briefly working at an auto parts store, he decided to pursue his passion and become a police officer.


Tate graduated from the police academy last year, and jumped right into his new job.


“He had this enthusiasm, this fire in his soul,” said his father, Ronald Tate. “He really knew the risk, but I think my son just thought people … are generally good people, so let’s treat them all with dignity.”


Tate, 24, was making a traffic stop Saturday evening in Hattiesburg when he was fatally shot, along with his fellow officer Benjamin Deen.


Officer Benjamin Deen: The married father of two was a K-9 officer earned the officer of the year honors three years ago, according to The Clarion-Ledger.


Deen and Tate were rushed to the hospital, but did not survive. Authorities say the suspects fled the scene, allegedly using a police cruiser as a getaway car. Police arrested four people.


IDAHO


Sgt. Greg Moore:


The veteran police officer was the son of a retired captain and beloved in his community. His fatal shooting left residents mourning and fellow police officers holding a vigil at the hospital.


Moore served with the Coeur d’Alene Police Department for 16 years. He was shot after he stopped a “suspicious male” at a traffic stop. A resident heard the gunshot and called for help. The suspect , who was later arrested, allegedly stole Moore’s car and went on a high speed chase.


He was a father and a husband.


NEW YORK


Brian Moore: 


The son and nephew of police officers had always wanted to join the NYPD. When he finally did, he did not take long to stand out.


“In his very brief career — less than five years — he had already proved himself to be an exceptional young officer,” New York Police Commissioner William Bratton said.


Moore was sitting in an unmarked police vehicle in Queens, along with his partner, when they saw a passerby adjusting something in his waistband, authorities said. He pulled up behind the man to ask about it. The suspect allegedly pulled a gun from his waistband and opened fire on both officers.


They were in the car and had no chance to fire back. His partner, Erik Jansen, survived.


Moore, 25, died at the hospital a few days later. Thousands of officers in blue came to his funeral.


WISCONSIN


Trevor Casper:


The 21-year-old was on his first solo assignment as a state trooper, after taking his oath in December.


In his short time on the force, he loved his job. So much so that anytime Capt. Anthony Burrell asked him if he was having fun, his answer was always ‘I sure am!'”


Casper was killed when chasing a bank robbery suspect in Fond du Lac. Gunfire rang out when the trooper was pursuing a car that matched the description of one used in the crime.


“He truly believed his sole purpose in life was to serve and protect others,” his family said.


CALIFORNIA 


Michael Johnson:


The veteran officer was killed while responding to a report of a man threatening to kill himself.


When officers arrived at the scene in San Jose, they were met with gunfire. Johnson was a 14-year veteran. The suspect was also found dead on his balcony with a gunshot wound, authorities said.


ARIZONA


Alex Kee Yazzie:


The Navajo police officer was killed during a shootout with a suspect near the Arizona-New Mexico state line. Officers pursued the suspect following a report that he was holding a family hostage. The suspect was also killed.


He had been a police officer for 14 years, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page.


LOUISIANA


Josie Wells:


The 27-year-old was killed while serving an arrest warrant on a murder suspect at a motel in Baton Rouge.


Wells, a deputy marshal, had served with the U.S. Marshals Service for four years. His wife was expecting their first child.


PHILADELPHIA


Robert Wilson:


The father was killed while buying a video game for his son.


Wilson, a Philadelphia police officer for eight years, was in the store when two men attempted to rob it. He exchanged fire with them, and was shot and killed. Both men were arrested.


“He fought until the very, very end, firing at both of them,” police spokesman Capt. James Clark said.


GEORGIA


Terence Green:


The veteran police detective was killed in an ambush shooting after he responded to a call of shots fired.


The incident occurred when police were searching a Fairburn neighborhood after reports of gunfire from a suspect’s home.


Green, 48, was shot in the head. A second officer was shot in the hip, but suffered no injuries.


The deaths come amid high tensions following a series of fatal shootings nationwide of unarmed African-American men by police officers.


Protesters have taken to the streets to express outrage over the killings. But Chief Alexander says officers don’t have it easy.


“Across this country right now, police are being questioned about the way that they do their jobs, but we can never ever forget the dangers and what they put on the line for us every day,” he said.


By Faith Karimi






CNN’s Catherine Shoichet, Ray Sanchez and Michael Martinez contributed to this report.










Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Events Calendar


See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.
















 




 






Popular








Suspect under arrest in Jamyla Bolden murder








3-year-old injured during shoot-out in north St. Louis








Suspected gunman kills self after killing journalists on air, police say








Reporter, photographer murdered after gunman opens fire during live shot
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








STLMoms: Shop for a Cause at Macy’s to benefit March of Dimes








Zip Rzeppa visits FOX 2








St. Louis Polo Charity Match to benefit the Endangered Wolf Center












 


























News




Worries about ‘Ferguson Effect’ after police killed on duty jumps 90%






News




5th service member dies after Chattanooga shooting






News




4 charged in killings of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, policemen to appear in court






News




2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody






News




Nixon plans announcement about officer training commission








 






News




Nixon plans announcement about officer training commission






News




Mohammed cartoon contest shooting suspect linked himself to ISIS in tweets






News




Person shot during Michael Brown anniversary protest in Ferguson






News




Tennessee gunman had depression, ‘was not the son we knew,’ family says






News




Infamous manhunts: When police have tracked fugitives into the wild








 






News




Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?






News




Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?






News




FBI: Chattanooga shooter had vest allowing him to carry extra ammo














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


iPhone & iPad App


iPhone Weather App










Facebook


Twitter


Email Alerts


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































