171 days after Tamir Rice shooting, sheriff says probe almost done | FOX2now.com 


171 days after Tamir Rice shooting, sheriff says probe almost done | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
FOX 2 News  



FOX 2 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














FOX2now.com




 
Menu




News


Links


AM Show


Sports


Traffic


Contests


STLMoms


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
66°


High 
84°












Sat





					65° 
 87°
					






Sun





					65° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 91°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















171 days after Tamir Rice shooting, sheriff says probe almost done




Posted 12:58 pm, May 12, 2015, by 
CNN Wires
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
 








About a week after Tamir Rice’s mother and her legal team publicly asked how long it would take to finish the investigation into her son’s death, the Cuyahoga County sheriff said Tuesday — 171 days after the 12-year-old was shot — that his department is almost there.


And that’s about it.


Sheriff Clifford Pinkney provided what he said was a timeline of the probe, which his department took over in December before beginning its investigation “in earnest” in mid-February. He told reporters that he and his investigators had resolved to leave “zero stones unturned” when the probe is handed to prosecutors.


The team has reviewed thousands of pages of documents, interviewed “numerous” witnesses and watched “any and all” surveillance of the November 22 incident in which Cleveland police Officer Timothy Loehmann fatally shot the boy in front of a recreation center.


Still, there are witnesses to be interviewed and forensic evidence to be collected, Pinkney said.


“The majority of our work is complete,” he said. “We have been tirelessly working on this investigation.”


He did not set a deadline for completing the probe, but said it shouldn’t “drag out beyond what is reasonable.”


On May 4, Tamir’s mother, Samaria Rice, appeared with her legal team on the steps of the Cuyahoga County Justice Center Complex to question the amount of time that has passed since the investigation began, CNN affiliate WJW reported.


“Less than a second and my son is gone, and I want to know how long I got to wait for justice?” she asked.


Cuyahoga County’s medical examiner has ruled Tamir’s death a homicide but has issued no determination as to whether the events that caused the boy’s death constitute a crime.


Cleveland authorities have repeatedly said that Loehmann mistook Tamir’s pellet gun for a real firearm.


A witness called 911 on November 22 to say there was “a guy with a pistol” and that although the weapon was “probably” fake, Tamir was scaring people. It doesn’t appear the dispatcher relayed the information to Loehmann and Officer Frank Garmback. Video of the incident shows the two pull up on the snowy grass near a gazebo where Tamir is standing. Within two seconds of exiting the police car, Loehmann shoots the 12-year-old.


The boy died the next day of injuries to “a major vessel, intestines and pelvis.”


In the video, neither Loehmann nor Garmback appears to provide medical assistance to the boy, and Police Chief Calvin Williams has said that Tamir did not receive first aid until an FBI agent arrived on the scene four minutes later.


In December, the U.S. Justice Department released the results of a two-year investigation that found Cleveland officers use guns, Tasers, pepper spray and their fists excessively, unnecessarily or in retaliation. The police force has used unnecessary and unreasonable force at a “significant rate,” employing “dangerous tactics” that put the community at risk, the investigation stated.


It was also reported in December that Loehmann’s previous employer, the Independence Police Department in a Cleveland suburb, had numerous complaints about the officer, including that he was “distracted and weepy” and “emotionally immature” and had demonstrated “a pattern of lack of maturity, indiscretion and not following instructions.”


He also showed “dangerous loss of composure during live range training” and an “inability to manage personal stress,” the department said.


By Eliott C. McLaughlin








Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Antenna TV


KTVI’s digital channel 2.2 shows hit movies and classic TV.
















 




 






Popular








Suspect under arrest in Jamyla Bolden murder








3-year-old injured during shoot-out in north St. Louis








Suspected gunman kills self after killing journalists on air, police say








Reporter, photographer murdered after gunman opens fire during live shot
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








STLMoms: Shop for a Cause at Macy’s to benefit March of Dimes








Zip Rzeppa visits FOX 2








St. Louis Polo Charity Match to benefit the Endangered Wolf Center












 


























News




Tamir Rice death investigation complete






News




Cleveland community leaders to ask judge for murder charges in Tamir Rice case






News




Tamir Rice report: No proof police officer shouted warning before shooting






News




Sources: Baltimore police investigation doesn’t support some of prosecution’s charge






News




Dallas police HQ attack: Suspect shot after standoff








 






News




Deputies who shot James Horn remain on paid leave






News




Bodies thought to be missing couple found in Arizona, sheriff says






News




New York prison break: Was husband warned about escape plan, murder plot?






Trending




Witchcraft suspected in ‘ritualistic’ hammer killing of family






News




Police: Missing SIUE student Taylor Clark found shot to death








 






Trending




Five Things to Know For Your New Day






News




Investigation finished in police shooting in Cincinnati traffic stop






News




Chief Sam Dotson says police on alert for possible unrest














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


iPhone & iPad App


iPhone Weather App










Facebook


Twitter


Email Alerts


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































