Will police officer face charges over killing of Tony Robinson in Wisconsin? | FOX2now.com 


Will police officer face charges over killing of Tony Robinson in Wisconsin? | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
FOX 2 News  



FOX 2 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














FOX2now.com




 
Menu




News


Links


AM Show


Sports


Traffic


Contests


STLMoms


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
66°


High 
84°












Sat





					65° 
 87°
					






Sun





					65° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 91°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Will police officer face charges over killing of Tony Robinson in Wisconsin?




Posted 10:19 am, May 12, 2015, by 
CNN Wires
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
 






The 19-year-old man fatally shot by a Madison, Wisconsin, police officer on March 6, 2015 was not armed, city Police Chief Mike Koval said during a press conference. The officer, identified as Matt Kenny (pictured), is a 12-year veteran of the department who fatally shot a man in 2007 but was exonerated of any wrongdoing, Koval said.


A district attorney in Wisconsin is set to bring an end Tuesday to weeks of uncertainty about whether a police officer will face criminal charges over the killing of an unarmed biracial man.


Tony Robinson, 19, was fatally shot by a white officer on March 6 in Madison, setting off days of protests in the city. His death came amid lingering tensions over the killings by police elsewhere of other unarmed African-Americans that seized national attention.


After an investigation by state authorities, Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne is expected to announce Tuesday afternoon whether Officer Matt Kenny of the Madison Police Department will face charges over the shooting.


The police department said in a statement Sunday that it has been preparing for Ozanne’s announcement for weeks, efforts that included holding meetings with community leaders.


“It is our hope — that working together — Madison can come through these challenging days ahead without violence or property damage,” it said.


Shooting at apartment


Police officials say that on the night of the shooting, Kenny was called to an apartment over reports that Robinson had been jumping in front of cars and assaulting people.


After hearing some commotion, Kenny forced his way into the apartment and was attacked by Robinson, according to police. Kenny responded by pulling out his gun and shooting Robinson, police officials say.


According to the Wisconsin State Journal, Robinson’s friends and family members have said he took hallucinogenic mushrooms and was behaving erratically the day he was killed. They reject the idea that Robinson was a threat to Kenny when he was shot, the newspaper reports.


Few details have been made publicly available about the confrontation between the two men.


The Dane County Medical Examiner’s Office said in a preliminary autopsy report that Robinson was shot in the head, torso and right arm.


Police say that Kenny suffered a blow to the head during the altercation. His attorney, Jim Palmer, said last week that Kenny was diagnosed with a concussion after the incident, according to the Wisconsin State Journal.


State investigation


The district attorney’s announcement Tuesday is expected to shed more light on what happened that night.


The shooting was investigated by state authorities. That’s because of a Wisconsin law that requires officer-involved killings to be investigated by officials from outside the law enforcement agency employing the officer involved in the death.


Robinson’s uncle Turin Carter said in March that family members trusted state investigators to handle the case “with integrity.”


But weeks later, the family publicly questioned whether the investigation would be fair.


Robinson’s family has hired a Chicago law firm to carry out its own investigation into the shooting and commissioned a private autopsy, according to the Wisconsin State Journal.


If the district attorney determines there are no grounds to prosecute Kenny, the Wisconsin law requires the investigators to release their report to the public.


Kenny has been on paid administrative leave since the shooting.


Previous incidents drew attention


Both Kenny and Robinson had incidents in their past that attracted attention after the shooting.


In 2007, Kenny shot and killed a man, Ronald Brandon, who was pointing a pellet gun at officers.


Kenny was exonerated of wrongdoing in that shooting and received a commendation.


Wisconsin Circuit Court documents indicate Robinson pleaded guilty in December to an armed robbery that occurred in April 2014.


Madison Police Chief Mike Koval and Madison Mayor Paul Sogin said in March that discussion of Robinson’s record was inappropriate.


“The fact that Tony was involved in any kind of transgression in the past has nothing to do with this present tragedy,” Soglin said.








Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














STL Moms!


A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.
















 




 






Popular








Suspect under arrest in Jamyla Bolden murder








3-year-old injured during shoot-out in north St. Louis








Suspected gunman kills self after killing journalists on air, police say








Reporter, photographer murdered after gunman opens fire during live shot
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








STLMoms: Shop for a Cause at Macy’s to benefit March of Dimes








Zip Rzeppa visits FOX 2








St. Louis Polo Charity Match to benefit the Endangered Wolf Center












 


























News




No charges for Wisconsin police officer in shooting death of biracial teen






News




Texas police chief fires officer who shot and killed unarmed teen






News




Ferguson protest groups say police were ‘antagonistic’






News




South Carolina officer shoots unarmed white teen during pot bust






News




Investigation finished in police shooting in Cincinnati traffic stop








 






News




Circuit Attorney: Officer won’t face charges in shooting death of VonDerrit Myers






News




Former St. Louis officer acquitted in fatal shooting






News




South Carolina officer shoots unarmed white teen during pot bust






News




Family of teen killed in police pot bust requests federal probe






News




Baltimore police, witnesses differ on story of man’s arrest








 






News




5 things to know for your New Day — Wednesday, May 13






News




Still no arrests after fatal shooting of girl in Ferguson






News




Police investigate Chicago cop’s Ferguson shooting comment














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


iPhone & iPad App


iPhone Weather App










Facebook


Twitter


Email Alerts


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































