CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC | myfox8.com 


CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC | myfox8.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
12 p.m. News 



FOX8 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














myfox8.com




 
Menu




News


On-Air


Morning News


Sports


You Decide 2016


Lottery


Contests


Events










Weather 




78°
















78°






Low 
64°


High 
85°












Sat





					64° 
 87°
					






Sun





					66° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 88°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC




Posted 11:19 am, June 18, 2015, by 
Web Staff
 and 
CNN Wire
 




Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
Reddit
Email
 












CHARLESTON, S.C. — They got him.


Dylan Storm Roof, the 
21-year-old man who police say walked into a South Carolina church 
and fatally shot nine people attending Bible study class, was arrested in Shelby, N.C., on Thursday, about 250 miles from Charleston.


According to WCCB
 in Charlotte, investigators say police stopped Roof at Highway 74 and Plato Lee Road, west of Shelby, following a tip from the public. A citizen reported a suspicious vehicle. Roof was armed when he was arrested.  It’s not clear if it’s the same firearm used in the shootings.


“He was cooperative with the officer who stopped him,” officials said during a press conference.






This is scene in Cleveland Co where Charleston shooting suspect caught…from Sky 3. 
pic.twitter.com/TkPOGhwxFb


— John Carter WBTV (@JohnCarterWBTV) 
June 18, 2015




The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has confirmed the Charleston church shooting suspect has been arrested.






Subject arrested in 
#Charleston
 shooting. Our sincere thanks to the public and our law enforcement partners.


— FBI (@FBI) 
June 18, 2015




Roof was a quiet person who got a gun for his 21st birthday in April, his uncle told the 
New York Daily News
.


His uncle Carson Cowles, who described his nephew as a shy person who kept to himself, said he was appalled by his nephew’s alleged crimes.


“He’s a monster, and they need to catch him, and he needs to pay for what he’s done,” he said prior to Roof’s capture.


U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, said his niece, Emily, was in an eighth-grade English class with Roof.


“He was quiet, strange, very unsocial and everyone thought he was on drugs,” Graham, a U.S. senator from South Carolina, said of the suspect, relaying the description from his niece Emily and sister Darline Graham Nordone.


The niece did not recall Roof making statements related to race, Graham said.


“I just think he was one of these whacked-out kids. I don’t think it’s anything broader than that,” said Graham, who is running for president. “It’s about a young man who is obviously twisted.”






A man inside 
#DylannRoof
's home declined to speak, adding we should get off his property before he called deputies. 
pic.twitter.com/oolwWHdelc


— Cynthia Roldan (@CynthiaRoldan) 
June 18, 2015




South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said, in tears, “We woke up this morning and the heart and soul of South Carolina was broken.”






House rises for standing ovation upon news that 
#CharlestonShooting
 suspect has been arrested by 
#NC
 Police. 
#ncga
 
pic.twitter.com/CDsjnmj39C


— Speaker Tim Moore (@NCHouseSpeaker) 
June 18, 2015








Crowds gathering outside Morris Brown Church to remember Charleston shooting victims. 
pic.twitter.com/4MnzISxCd9


— Steve Crump WBTV (@SteveCrumpWBTV) 
June 18, 2015




Previous story:


Police say Roof walked into the church and fatally shot nine people attending Bible study class.


Witnesses told officials Roof reportedly said he was at the church to shoot black people, a source told CNN.


Police released a flier Thursday morning with details of the suspect in the attack on the historic African-American church as they appealed for help to track him down as quickly as possible.


The suspect’s uncle, Carson Cowles, 56, told Reuters that he recognized the man in the surveillance photo distributed by police as his nephew.


“The more I look at him, the more I’m convinced, that’s him,” Carson Cowles, 56, told Reuters in a phone interview. Cowles also said Roof received a .45-caliber pistol as a birthday present in April.


According to Lexington County School District One, Roof attended White Knoll High School in Lexington, S.C., for one year, WCSC is reporting. It’s not clear if he transferred or dropped out.


Roof was currently out on bond in connection with multiple recent arrests on drug and trespassing charges.


“The following subject is wanted for the shooting that occured in Charleston at the Emanuel AME Church. Subject is Dylann Storm Roof w/m 4/3/1994 5’9″ 120 lbs. The subject should be driving a 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS, SC registration LGF330. The vehicle is dark-colored. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous and caution should be used if seen. “


Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen told a news conference that officers “have obtained surveillance videos of the suspect in this case and a suspect vehicle.”


Mullen said the suspect was a “younger white male between 21 and 25 years of age, 5-foot-9 in height” and “has a very distinctive sweatshirt that has markings.”






Surveillance image released by Charleston Police.




Mullen emphasized the suspect is “a very dangerous individual” and said “he should not be approached by anyone.”


Any people who recognize the suspect or spots the vehicle should alert law enforcement, he said, rather than trying to follow themselves.


Woman spared by shooter to give account?


A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.


Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night. Scott added that she didn’t know if the survivor had ended up at the hospital or being questioned by police.


Because of the church’s historic significance, it is not unusual for visitors, whether white or black, to visit it, Scott said. She said she’d had no indication that any children were among the victims.


Mullen told the news conference the suspect had been in the church attending a meeting that was going on — and “stayed there almost an hour with the group before the actual event.”


But he declined to comment on whether the suspect had let one woman escape.








Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Women Making a Difference


Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.
















 




 






Popular








After shooting, Virginia gunman details grievances in ‘suicide note’ faxed to ABC News








Va. shooter posted tweets, video of shooting on social media








Va. reporter, photographer killed on-air during live news interview, shooter kills himself








Iowa teachers sing ‘One Day More’ before students return to school — and it’s awesome
















 






Latest News








Middle school teacher welcomes students back to magical Harry Potter-themed classroom








Greesnsboro police searching for man who exposed himself in front of children at Lawndale Target








Father allegedly robs bank to pay for daughter’s chemotherapy








Calif. man bitten while taking selfie with rattlesnake












 


























News




Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?






News




Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’






News




Dashcam video shows arrest of Charleston church shooter in Shelby






News




Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting






News




Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting








 






News




Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’






News




Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine






News




Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting






News




Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter






News




Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm








 






News




GoFundMe page for sister of accused Charleston church shooter taken down






News




FBI says Dylann Roof should not have been cleared to purchase a weapon






News




Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


Weather iPhone App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


Pinterest


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 54,924 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com




















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































