Boat carrying hundreds of migrants capsizes in Mediterranean Sea | Fox 59 
Boat carrying hundreds of migrants capsizes in Mediterranean Sea | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
Closings
HealthTrax


 










 







Boat carrying hundreds of migrants capsizes in Mediterranean Sea

Posted 7:32 AM, April 19, 2015, by Sabrina Adams - Assignment Editor 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 



×
Boat carrying hundreds of migrants capsizes in Mediterranean Sea


 



By Jethro Mullen, Barbie Nadeau and Tina Burnside
CNN


ROME (CNN) — Rescuers are racing to try to save hundreds of people believed to have been thrown into the Mediterranean Sea when the boat carrying them from Libya capsized overnight, authorities said Sunday.
But the hopes of finding many survivors from the latest migrant boat disaster in Mediterranean waters appear to be dimming.
The boat is estimated to have been carrying roughly 700 people when it ran into trouble in the dark of night.
Rescuers from Italy and Malta have seen scores of bodies in Libyan waters, said Maltese military spokesman David Cioffi. Children were reported to be among the dead.
Hours in cold water
The exact numbers of people rescued, dead and missing is shifting constantly.
A total of 28 survivors and 24 bodies have so far been recovered in an area about 110 kilometers (70 miles) north of Libya, according to the Italian Coast Guard, which is leading the rescue operation.
But Flavio Di Giacomo, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration, told CNN that 49 survivors were being taken to Sicily.
Survivors reportedly said that 700 to 800 people had been on board the boat. Di Giacomo put the number at 650 to 700.
The vessel was large and had multiple levels, said Italian Coast Guard spokeswoman Francesca Caruso.
A distress call went out late Saturday indicating the ship was in trouble, Italian authorities said. The passengers had been in the chilly water for hours before rescuers could get to them.
Adding to the bleak situation, a storm brewing in the area threatens to hinder the rescue operations.
Recent upsurge
There has been a recent upsurge in migrant boats crossing the Mediterranean into Italy and an increase in rescues performed by the Italian Coast Guard to aid migrant boats.
The number of people dying en route also appears to have soared.
Waves of migrants attempt to make the crossing from North Africa into Southern Europe every week in search of a better prospects.
But their hopes are exploited by human traffickers who put them to sea in flimsy, overcrowded vessels.
The migrants have often endured grueling journeys over land just to get to the port of departure and are already in poor health.
‘The people are going to continue to arrive’
The sea journey can easily go wrong.
More than 900 migrants are believed to have died while crossing the Mediterranean since the beginning of the year, far more than during the same period in 2014, the International Organization for Migration said Friday.
And those are just the deaths that Western officials hear about.
European countries, meanwhile, are squabbling over who should do what to deal with the waves of migrants.
Roberta Metsola, a Maltese member of the European Parliament, told CNN on Sunday that countries from Northern Europe need to share the responsibility with their southern neighbors.
“The people are going to continue to arrive,” she said. “The desperation subsists — there are almost a million people waiting to board boats and come to Europe to seek a better life. And that fact has to be recognized.”


Journalist Barbie Nadeau reported from Rome, CNN’s Tina Burnside reported from Atlanta, and CNN’s Jethro Mullen wrote from Hong Kong.




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World, News 













 








 

 


Popular



‘I was in a state of disbelief’ Teacher arrested for letting students have sex in classroom



Take a tour of this massive (and odd) 46-bedroom, 60,175 sq. foot mansion for sale in Texas



‘We don’t want you in our yearbook’ High school student with special needs excluded from yearbook



VIDEO: Bear and man scare each other







 


Latest News



What you need to know if you’re heading to the IPL 500 Festival Parade this weekend



Sex trafficking expected to spike during Indy500 weekend;Indiana Attorney General fighting back



Suspect in Danville golf pro-shop heist arrested



Veteran, 91, suits up for IndyCar ride with Mario Andretti





 












National & World News

Police: Muslim migrants threw Christians overboard because of faith


National & World News

Dashcam captures moment TransAsia plane hits bridge, crashes in Taipei


National & World

Half-ton haul: Teen hooks massive blue marlin off Hawaii coast


National & World News

Egypt strikes back against ISIS after 21 slaughtered


National & World News

Nepal earthquake: Death toll nears 4,000



 


National & World News

Over 800 people dead after 7.8 magnitude quake slams Nepal


News What's Trending

San Diego sea lion pup bunks with sailor for Mother’s Day


News

Jury sentences Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death in Boston Marathon bombing


National & World News

Tsarnaev attorney’s startling court admission: ‘It was him’


News

Baby found alive 14 hours after car overturns in river



 


National & World News

Baby thrown 25 feet in crash opens eyes, smiles at rescuers


News

Latest on Nepal Quake: Death toll 4,438 in 3 countries


News

Missing boy, 13, found dead in Pennsylvania






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,620 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















