April | 2015 | Libya Analysis
April | 2015 | Libya Analysis

Libya AnalysisHome
Consulting

Consulting Services
Mission
Clients
Team


Pack’s Publications

Op Eds
Scholarly Book Reviews
Peer Review Publications
Media Appearances
The 2011 Libyan Uprisings: The Book
Backgammon Articles


CV
Public Lectures
About Jason Pack
Contact
Viewing posts from: April, 2015




Categories 
Adventure (13)

Africa (5)

Backgammon Articles (10)

Bespoke Products (1)

Blog Posts (87)

Egypt (30)

Featured Posts (95)

Federalism (77)

GNC (140)

House of Commons Briefings (6)

House of Representatives (52)

ICC (6)

Intervention (129)

Iran (5)

Kurdistan (KRG) (6)

Libyan Army/Militias (225)

Libyan Business/Investment (93)

Libyan Elections (106)

Maghreb (7)

Negotiations (11)

News (313)

Oil (65)

Pack's Publications (167)

Forthcoming Book (19)

Media Appearances (43)

Op Eds (84)

Peer Review Publications (5)

Scholarly Book Reviews (9)



ports (31)

Qaddafi (35)

Salafis (49)

Syria (13)

Terrorism (43)

Tuareg (5)

Tunisia (6)

UK Politics (2)

US Politics (63)

USLBA (4)

Wine (1)


Featured Posts Show All
Archives 
May 2015 (3)
April 2015 (13)
March 2015 (10)
February 2015 (15)
January 2015 (12)
December 2014 (8)
November 2014 (11)
October 2014 (15)
September 2014 (10)
August 2014 (17)
July 2014 (15)
June 2014 (10)
May 2014 (11)
April 2014 (8)
March 2014 (15)
February 2014 (15)
January 2014 (8)
December 2013 (11)
November 2013 (8)
October 2013 (12)
September 2013 (7)
August 2013 (6)
July 2013 (6)
June 2013 (10)
May 2013 (10)
April 2013 (8)
March 2013 (5)
February 2013 (9)
January 2013 (14)
December 2012 (5)
November 2012 (7)
October 2012 (14)
September 2012 (10)
August 2012 (8)
July 2012 (13)
June 2012 (20)
May 2012 (4)
April 2012 (3)
March 2012 (5)
February 2012 (4)
January 2012 (2)
December 2011 (4)
November 2011 (4)
October 2011 (9)
September 2011 (7)
August 2011 (2)
June 2011 (1)
April 2011 (2)
March 2011 (1)
February 2011 (1)



29Apr2015 			The July 2012 Libyan Election and the Origin of Post-Qadhafi Appeasement		

Haley Cook and I trace the origins of the collapse of the transitional and constitutional processes in Libya from a novel angle in our long awaited MIDDLE EAST JOURNAL article. We began writing this article in the Summer of 2012 and first submitted it in early 2013. After rounds and rounds of peer review it is finally ready.  We actually believe it is more topical than ever as it elucidates how the free and fair elections for the GNC led to the collapse of the Libya state. We conclude that the post-Qadhafi holders of legitimacy and governmentality (the centre of power) chose to appease the militias and various divergent political interests (e.g. the federalists, Islamists, and political isolationists) and that the process of electoral competition and coalition building encouraged this behaviour.  This process then eviscerated Libya’s already weak institutions down to the bare bones.  We also survey the early post-Uprisings scholarship and discern three schools of thought: the appeasers, temporizers, and over-centralizers.
To access the article via the Middle East Journal click here.
ABSTRACT: The July 2012 parliamentary election in Libya was free and fair. Nonetheless, the election exacerbated various local, tribal, and religious cleavages. The National Transitional Council’s policy of appeasement successfully averted widespread armed conflict, yet it inadvertently derailed Libya’s future constitutional process. This article surveys the main scholarly paradigms for analyzing both Libya after the fall of Mu‘ammar al-Qadhafi and the role of elections in societies in transition. It concludes that the outcome of the 2012 Libyan election calls into question the ability of post-conflict elections to function as tools of democratization or as mechanisms to unify social fissures, especially in societies lacking in formal institutions.
PARADIGM: This article adheres to the broad paradigm that asserted that the Libyan government unnecessarily dissipated its authority by repeatedly “accommodating” the demands of armed protesters. This scholarly current tended to see the NTC/GNC as “appeasers” or “accommodators” who failed to confront their opponents — choosing to back away from controversial policies when threatened with force.20 This pattern started with the NTC’s action in the lead up to the July election to “placate” federalist demands, and was followed by pressure from Islamist militias and their supporters in the GNC’s Martyrs Bloc to pass the political isolation law, which was in turn followed by the GNC’s upholding of the NTC’s decisions on the direct election of the constitutional committee. This perspective implicitly maintained that bold NTC leadership and propaganda could have capitalized on the honeymoon period following Qadhafi’s ouster, meaningfully turning the tide against the disruptive periphery and towards the center…..
CONCLUSIONS:  Libya’s current armed struggle, duplication of governance functions, and political sphere dominated by “peripheral” elements creates a situation where Libya could be indefinitely stranded between competing regional and ideological factions and faced with total loss of sovereignty and the nonexistence of a state structure.
The 2012 election was conducted with minimal violence and high voter turnout. It also culminated in the full transfer of powers from the outgoing, unelected National Transitional Council (NTC) to the incoming, elected General National Congress (GNC). Despite being the first truly free and fair election in Libyan history, it failed to live up to its potential to set a positive precedent because the NTC’s weakness reduced  the election’s potential effectiveness by rewarding dissident groups who challenged the political process via violence rather than channeling their political contestation towards the ballot box. The NTC’s amendment to the election law on July 5, 2012, and the GNC’s decision on April 9, 2013, to uphold it have simultaneously weakened Libyan institutions and undermined their legitimacy.
Placed in broader context, Libya’s post-2011 political developments provide a fascinating case study, demonstrating that even the freest and fairest elections held without robust institutions do not necessarily facilitate post-conflict social cohesion and security. This finding challenges the oft-cited hypothesis in the political science literature — usually associated with Staffan Lindberg — that elections in and of themselves are causal drivers of democratization.
 


27Apr2015 			All Eyes on Migrants as Political Deal Keeps Slipping Through		
The past week witnessed limited developments on the Libyan theatre as no breakthrough seems within anyone’s reach at this stage. Fierce fighting and clashes across western Libya were registered again, confirming that this area is now the epicentre of fighting between the Tripoli-based and Tubruq-based blocs. Furthermore, uprisings and armed agitation witnessed in Tripoli during the past two weeks seem to suggest that Libya Dawn forces are currently overstretched and losing whatever popular support inside the capital they had. Possibly in light of these developments and to improve its operational capabilities there, last week Misrata’s 3rd Force finalised an agreement with the Magarha tribe to end fighting in Qirah and in the Brak al-Shatti area in central Fezzan.
Keeping the above in mind, although UNSMIL’s Chief Bernardino Leon and EU’s High Representative for Foreign Affairs Federica Mogherini remain adamant that a grand political deal is now in sight, it does not come as a surprise that during the past week no significant breakthrough was registered with regards to UN-backed negotiations or tangential consultations being held in Morocco and Algeria. Actually, in light of Libya Dawn’s difficulties in Tripoli and western Libya, it is reasonable to expect hawkish elements among the Tubruq-based establishment will be further emboldened and keen to pursue a military solution to the crisis.
On the other hand, as a consequence of the tragic capsizing of a vessel transporting 700 migrants from the coast of Libya towards Italy on Sunday 19 April, the international community has turned its attention once again to Libya and to the security implications stemming from the lack of a stable central government there. Whilst a number of measures have been discussed by EU officials and government representatives, as well as British candidates, surprisingly little attention has been paid to the necessity of achieving a lasting political deal inside the North-African country. In fact, most plans discussed so far by EU member states in coordination with Frontex entail the adoption of measures aiming to provide quick fixes for the issue of large vessels sinking at sea. This ‘treating the symptoms’ while ignoring the root cause approach runs the risk of further militarising the issue of illegal transnational migration, as Patrick Kingsley brilliantly discussed on The Guardian last Saturday:

“I’m not threatened,” says Hajj, a 33-year-old law graduate. “It’s been happening for years, these promises and threats. They’ll move on. What are they going to do, put two frigates here? Two warships? In Libyan waters? That’s an invasion.” Far from panicking, Hajj and his friends are amused. What on earth would military options look like against such a tangled, complex trade? A trade deeply rooted in not just the coastal economy, but in dozens of way stations across the northern half of Africa. And one that is now reliant not just on a few experienced individuals but – thanks to the ongoing unrest sparked by Libya’s 2011 revolution – on overlapping and informal networks that emerge, morph and fade by the week.”
Who? Where?” asks a friend of Hajj’s when contemplating the potential targets of EU anti-smuggling operations. “No one has the name ‘smuggler’ written on their chest. Anyone here who has no money can sell their apartment, buy a boat, and organise a smuggling trip. By the time of the next trip you’d already have regained half the cost of the apartment. It’s a very easy formula.”

On the internal political stage, the House of Representatives in Tobruk has started an internal debate to extend its term beyond the remaining six months it is entitled to by existing laws. Whilst no final decision has been taken as of yet, it is worth monitoring this internal debate as it retains the potential of causing further splintering within the Tobruk-based bloc, as well as of being exploited by rival groups, blocs and constituencies to justify a renewed boycotting of talks or a more intransigent stance at the negotiations’ table.
Lastly, the oil sector witnessed yet another rough week. Firstly, the port of Hariga (Tobruk) was temporarily closed between Wednesday 22 and Thursday 23 April as a result of a strike by security forces manning the oil terminal. The strike was subsequently called off, allowing for resumption of oil exports from the port, but not before confirming both the inherent volatility of the situation there and the desire of key Federalist leaders to keep the port open. Secondly, starting from Sunday 26 April, Libya’s oil production is slated to drop well below the 500,000bpd mark as the el-Feel oilfield, which has a capacity of 100,000bpd, was shut down on Saturday 25 April due to a strike related to salary issues launched by Zintani-aligned security forces stationed there. As no breakthrough is yet to be registered with regards to making Sidra’s or Ras Lanuf’s oil terminals operative again, it increasingly looks like regional actors playing with the Libyan crisis will have to dig deeper in their pockets to sustain the current flow of events.


26Apr2015 			Milliband Puts His Foot in His Mouth on Libya		
Speaking at Chatham House on Friday the 24th, Ed Milliband rightly pointed out that the Western world did not give enough post-conflict assistance after the fall of the Qadhafi regime in 2011. Yet, in his rambling remarks he got the causes of the ongoing Libyan civil war totally wrong, showing that he has failed to understand both the role of Western policy in affecting the struggle for the post-Qadhafi future and how that struggle leads into the migrant crisis in the Mediterranean.  Wanting to set the record straight, I ventured into the realm of electoral commentary, writing an article for The Spectator entitled, “Miliband’s position on Libya is deeply hypocritical.” To read the full article click here.
What Ed Miliband lacks in charisma, he is attempting to make up for in polemic. Tragically for the UK’s future, this represents an ‘Americanization‘ of British electoral politics. In all likelihood, its origins are David Axelrod cynically taking a page out of the Republicans’ playbook. Fortunately, repeated screaming of ‘Benghazi‘, as if it were a primordial voodoo incantation, is unlikely to work on this side of the Atlantic….
Instead of proposing novel solutions to the conundrum of nation-building in the Islamic world, Miliband went on the attack, asserting that ‘David Cameron was wrong to assume that Libya’s institutions could be left to evolve and transform themselves.’ To investigate this claim, I contacted a few former FCO members who were advising Cameron on Libya from both Tripoli and Whitehall between 2011-2014. They confirmed to me that no one in Number 10 made any such a naive assumption and that Labour was constantly consulted and informed of the coalition’s Libya policy.  Miliband’s unwarranted potshot at Cameron is unstatesmanlike and frankly inexcusable. One of the greatest traditions of British politics, relative to its French or American counterparts, is not to politicise foreign policy decisions.
To read the full article click here.


25Apr2015 			Are UK Failures in Libya to Blame for Mediterranean Migrant Crisis?		
Given Miliband’s comments about Cameron’s record in Libya, Ian Black wrote a fascinating retrospective on UK government and academic analysts appraisals of developments in Libya. To read the whole article click here.
British and other western diplomats involved in Libya insist they tried to help but were often rebuffed by the rebel national transitional council and the governments that followed it. Capacity-building for the central bank and the prime minister’s office had little success. But most damaging was the failure to build a national army and police force to absorb and replace the plethora of revolutionary brigades in control on the ground…..
“Cameron’s heart was in the right place but he didn’t want to be seen to be meddling because Tony Blair was always accused of George Bush-style meddling,” said Jason Pack, president of Libya-Analysis.com. “He was like Obama. He wanted to be seen as a humanitarian intervener and not a strategic intervener, or a forced nation builder. But he has taken a back seat even though Libya is a legacy issue.”  To read the whole article click here. 


22Apr2015 			Migrant Issue on BBC 5 Live and Fan Mail		
On Tuesday, April 21st, I was on BBC‬ 5 Live’s Drive Programme starting from 6:05 pm discussing the humanitarian and strategic issues of the ‪‎migrant‬ crisis. It turned out to be a very sleek piece of radio.  You can listen by clicking here. The clip starts from 2:05:55, And there is some very gripping and tragic background and human interest stories, I then start analysing the high politics at 2:11:00.
The next morning, I got the following lovely piece of unsolicited fan mail:


Hi Jason,
I don’t know you but I just wanted to congratulate you on what I thought
was a really interesting and impressive analysis during your slot on Radio
5 Live last night.
I have nothing to do directly (personally nor professionally) with either
Libya or the unfolding Mediterranean situation – but whilst listening to
the radio last night (whilst doing the washing up) I found your
construction of bigger picture really very interesting.
So just wanted to say thanks for sharing your knowledge and insights,
providing a really informative analysis, and in particular sharing your
definite thoughts on how to best handle the situation.  Was a very
interesting strategic view.
Anyway, felt compelled to write you an email and just say how much I
enjoyed it.
Many Thanks and Best Wishes, [name withheld for his privacy]




22Apr2015 			From the Libyan Press: Humanitarian Crisis In Sirte		
Thanks again to Industry Arabic for providing this timely translation from the Libyan media. If you ever need high quality English-Arabic translation services, do give them a call.
Local Council President: Humanitarian Crisis In Sirte
Sirte – Al-Wasat
The President of the Sirte Local Council, Abdel Fattah Assiwi has confirmed that the city is facing a humanitarian crisis. He stated that residents are suffering from a fuel shortage lasting over seven weeks, in addition to shortages of medicine and medical supplies, cooking gas, and cash at Sirte’s nine commercial banks.
In a phone call with Al-Wasat, Assiwi said that there is ongoing coordination between the Sirte Local Council, the Crisis and Communications Committees, and government and security bodies to provide basic necessities to the city in the near future.
Deteriorating Services
In describing the situation, Assiwi noted the two-week long Wimax internet outage in the city, the lack of supplies, rising prices of foodstuffs and meats, and the spread of expired foodstuffs in the absence of regulatory control.
Assiwi also pointed to the acute shortages of baking flour, baked bread, and cases of vandalism and theft from several government facilities, committed by unknown parties.
The Security Situation
The Sirte Local Council President listed a number of schools that were destroyed by unknown persons in the absence of Educational Facility Guards, confirming that the city is witnessing a worsening security situation.
Assiwi praised those who were working to provide services to citizens despite the difficult security situation and thanked the General Electricity Company, the General Company for Cleaning Services, the general company for Water and Sewage, the River Investment Apparatus, the Ibn Sina Teaching Hospital, the Council of Governors, and civil society organizations who have been providing charitable and humanitarian services to city residents.
On April 7, Members of the Sirte Council of Deputies requested that the interim government declare a state of disaster in the city.
According to the Libyan News Network in Bayda, the request from the Council of Deputies entailed forming a crisis committee to meet the humanitarian needs of the city’s residents given the harsh conditions resulting from the clashes between Battalion 166 and Daesh.
The request also pointed to the harsh conditions facing the city’s residents, including the lack of fuel, gas, foods, basic necessities, cash at banks, and the complete collapse of all types of services in Sirte.
The city of Sirte has seen intermittent clashes between Daesh, which controls parts of the city, and Battalion 166, which is loyal to Fajr Libya.
Source: http://www.alwasat.ly/ar/news/libya/71075/


21Apr2015 			Libya Dawn Repels Uprisings in Tripoli as Instability Plagues Libya		
After a lull on the diplomatic, humanitarian and military fronts, the past week registered several developments in Libya both at the political and military levels. Instability and widespread clashes afflicted western Libya, with a proto anti-Libya Dawn uprising taking place in various districts of Tripoli, and particularly in the neighbourhoods of Fashloum and Tajoura, on the outskirts of town. Whilst Libya Dawn has retained control of all areas in and around the capital, the incidents of this week have revealed yet another layer of fragility in the Libya Dawn coalition, possibly reinforcing the push of hawks among the Tobruk establishment to pursue a military solution until a complete victory is achieved on the Misratan-led bloc holding sway in western Libya. Libya Dawn forces are nonetheless leaving no stone unturned in their attempt to stabilise the situation in the capital as they have reportedly employed heavy handed strategies, including arresting civilians suspected of sympathising with Operation Dignity and the broader Karama camp.
UN-backed negotiations resumed in Morocco despite attempts to sabotage them by elements aligned with Operation Dignity who carried out an airstrike over Tripoil’s Mitiga airport minutes before the GNC delegation to the UN talks was due to take off. This was undoubtedly the most controversial attack of the past week in Libya and drew strong criticism from UNSMIL and its Chief, Bernardino Leon, whose remarks appeared to have the effect of curbing the number and frequency of aerial airstrikes for the remainder of the week. Whilst at different times during the week both sides threatened to pull out altogether from the process, the UN is working relentlessly to produce a political roadmap document incorporating requests from both sides. UNSMIL announced emphatically on Sunday 19 April that almost 80% of the new national unity government has been agreed upon by both sides. Nonetheless, observers agree that the finalising of a rapprochement political deal is still far from happening and that no breakthrough should be expected anytime soon on this front.
The oil sector continues to be characterised by a weak and unstable performance. After a temporary closure due to adverse weather conditions, the port of Hariga was re-opened on Monday 13 April, allowing for resumption of oil exports from this port in the measure of approximately 700,000 barrels per week, which add up to the 600,000 barrels exported from Zueitina. Whilst both ports are under control of the Cyrenaica-based camp, the decision taken by Thinni’s cabinet to set up alternative offshore bank accounts in the UAE has been met with reluctance. In fact, at present, international buyers are not interested to pay for Libyan oil in accounts not registered with the national Central Bank, and the UN has indicated this as a red line for the imposition of sanctions thus reducing the risk of a renewed spike in violence in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region. As previously discussed, in fact, the Tripoli based establishment has expressed deep hostility against the decision of creating new bank accounts and has repeatedly threatened to re-vamp its Operation Shuruq-led assault so as to undermine extraction activities in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region.
Finally, instability and the overall tragic security situation marring Libya were also displayed through two incidents occurred during the weekend. Firstly, an Italian fishing boat was temporarily seized by Libyan forces, off the coast of Misrata, before it managed to escape to Sicily. At the time of writing this post, conflicting reports portrayed the incident with very different events and perspectives, thus not allowing for a clear analysis of its implications. Overall, however, this incident confirms the inherent risk stemming from the instability and calm tension marring the waters around Libya. Secondly, on Sunday, the media outlet of the Islamic State in Libya published a video allegedly showing the execution of thirty Ethiopian Christians in undisclosed locations in Cyrenaica and Fezzan. Whilst this video received less media coverage in Western countries than the previous major Libyan IS video release (“Message in Blood to the People of the Cross”), it is likely that its impact will be felt in decision-making rooms where European politicians are discussing the possibility of a monitoring mission to patrol the sea off the coast of Libya as well as IS entrenchment in the country. Discussions around the issue of an EU-backed monitoring mission picked up speed again on Sunday after a boat transporting 700 migrants coming from the Libyan coast capsized, killing all of his passenger and bringing the migrants’ death toll in the Mediterranean to above 1,600 people since the start of the year. The EU’s response is best explained via this article in The Guardian.


20Apr2015 			How to Solve the Crisis in the Mediterranean?		
Here is my latest appearance on SkyNews discussing the tragedy of the migrants drowning in the Mediterranean.  I make the point that you can’t deal with the humanitarian crisis without dealing with its root causes and that both ISIS tragedies and migrants drowning must drive European policymakers to invest more in trying to create a structure of incentives and disincentives concerning the civil war.  To watch the clip, click here.


17Apr2015 			The Anglo-Senussi ‘War’ of 1915 – 17 and the Emergence of Modern Cyrenaica		
The Anglo-Senussi ‘War’ of 1915 – 17 and the emergence of modern Cyrenaica
 A Lecture by Jason Pack, President, Libya-Analysis.com
 The President and Council of the Society for Libyan Studies invite all members of the Society to attend the above lecture to be held at the British Academy, 10 Carlton House Terrace.
London SW1A 5AH at 5.30 pm on Thursday 7 May 2015.  Members’ friends are welcome, if you are a UK-based colleague interested in attending this lecture please let me know.


16Apr2015 			Aiding the Assyrians Fight Against ISIS		
Here is a quick foray into commenting on the fight against ISIS and how it has to be used to strength communities and the Iraqi state or similar tragedies will repeat themselves.  Click here to read the whole article at the Huff Post.
The Syrian civil war and the rise of ISIS has engendered many tragedies — some widely known and bemoaned, others not. One of the lesser known dangers is that the very existence of the Assyrian people in their historic homelands in the Middle East is under threat.
Supporting Assyrian led security forces will contribute to Iraq’s demographic continuity, reconciling the peoples of Nineveh to their land and helping to fortify the area against future incursion by extremists. Their will should be transformed into efficacy, and European powers and the USA can and should play a leading role in that process.
Local security and administrative capacities are likely to form an important basis of any future national security arrangement in Iraq. This understanding has been recognised in the form of American legislation. This year’s National Defense Authorisation Act, which recently passed both Congress and Senate, contains language in its Explanatory Statement sanctioning “local forces that are committed to protecting highly vulnerable ethnic and religious minority communities in the Nineveh Plain and elsewhere from the ISIL threat.” The policy of European states should echo these commitments.
To read the whole article click here.


14Apr2015 			Hawks Prevailing in Tobruk? Another ‘Lost’ Week for Libya		
The past week witnessed limited developments at the military and political levels in Libya as efforts continued to be made by international stakeholders to salvage the UN-backed negotiations process. In fact, contrary to what expected, UN backed negotiations in the Moroccan town of Skhirat did not resume during the past week as the Tobruk-based House of Representatives appointed an internal team to evaluate and discuss the interim political roadmap drawn at the last session of negotiations only on Monday 6 April. In light of this, it is safe to say that the latest postponement was the result of deliberate tinkering from the Tobruk-based establishment. As a result, both the Misratan Municipal Council and representatives of the rump General National Congress based in Tripoli threatened to abandon the negotiations process if military activities in western Libya from Operation Dignity aligned forces were not stopped and if no positive attitude and interest towards achieving a political solution to the crisis were displayed by the House of Representatives in the coming days. The rest of the week was thus spent by international stakeholders and by UNSMIL Chief Bernardino Leon trying to salvage the whole negotiations process. As of Monday 13 April, talks with political leaders and activists resumed in Algiers, whereas the official negotiation process with HoR and GNC representatives is expected to resume in Skhirat during the next few days, at least according to a statement made by the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Frederica Mogherini, on Sunday 12 April.
Mogherini’ statement came at the end of a week where Libya resurfaced on several agendas. Last week in fact, the Italian, Algerian and Egyptian Ministers of Foreign Affairs gathered on Monday 6 and Tuesday 7 April in Rome to discuss the ongoing Libyan crisis and possible ways forward. Whilst no breakthrough or unexpected development emerged from this conference, the overall impression is that international stakeholders have once again turned their attention to Libya and to the potential negative domino effect that a protracted crisis there could have on the security situation in neighbouring countries. As repeatedly said during the past few months, however, it remain to be seen whether this interest and the pressures that come with it will be enough to encourage rival blocs, or at least the majority of members from each bloc, into a political deal. David Kirkpatrick on the New York Times today presented an interesting overview of conflicting visions for the best way forward.
Meanwhile, on the ground, little changed throughout the past few days. The port of Hariga  (Tobruk) was declared closed on Sunday 12 April due to adverse weather conditions. Reports indicated that a tanker had been waiting off the coast of Tobruk throughout the weekend without being able to dock and load crude. This is not the first time that rough sea prevents tankers from docking at Hariga, however, already on Monday 13 April, the port was re-opened and loading operations restarted. As for the ‘Oil Crescent’ region, the ceasefire agreement reached at the end of March between Operation Shuruq and forces aligned with Operation Dignity entrenched there continues to hold. However, the recent move made by the Tobruk-based establishment to set up alternative bank accounts to receive payments for the sale of crude could re-exacerbate the situation in the region. As a result, a sudden resumption of fighting in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region during the coming weeks should not be completely ruled out as hawks on both sides have a stake in a resumption of all-out fighting. No change occurred instead to the established patterns of fighting and instability witnessed in the past weeks and months in Benghazi, Derna, Sirte and western Libya. As of last week, no military breakthrough was achieved by any side in the crisis as most actors appear to have been busy with under-the-radar negotiations within their own constituencies, to plan ways forward in the crisis, rather than with undertaking fresh large-scale military offensives.


07Apr2015 			The ‘Oil Crescent’ is Pacified despite Tobruk’s New NOC		
The past week witnessed significant developments on the military scene in Libya. As for negotiations, UN backed negotiations held in the Moroccan town of Skhirat were adjourned for the third time on Thursday 26 March and are due to restart only during the current week. No significant developments were otherise registered, or surfaced, during the past week as negotiating teams went back to their constituencies to report on progress made in Skhirat and discuss possible ways forward for the establishment of a technocratic national unity government.
On a different note, on Saturday 4 April, the Tobruk-affiliated National Oil Corporation announced its intention to open alternative bank accounts in the United Arab Emirates so as to undercut the NOC offices and management located in Tripoli, even though the NOC has largely been perceived as a neutral actor throughout the current crisis. Although similar announcements have already been made a number of times during the past few months, this announcement retains nonetheless the potential of leading to major setbacks in the UN-backed negotiations process as well as of squandering all the gains registered in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region during the past ten days. There, the agreement reached over the course of the past ten days was further consolidated during the past week. As part of the agreement, Operation Shuruq forces have now retreated to the east, towards Sirte, so as to avoid a renewed spike in violence at the hands of hardliners on both sides of the divide. Furthermore, a shared committee with members from both blocs will be established in the coming weeks so as to assess the status of oil-related infrastructure in the region, allow for the return of oil-related workers, make permanent security arrangements with regards to oil fields and terminals and make an assessment of the next steps to be taken with regards to oil exploitation in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region, keeping in mind a national, rather than regional or tribal, perspective. The reaching of this agreement and its implementation were warmly welcomed by the UNSMIL mission who also called on parties to promptly follow up on remaining steps that were negotiated as part of the initial agreement. It will be interesting to see at this stage what, if any, guidance and guidelines will international stakeholders and governments provide to companies operating in the oil sector with partners located in the HoR-controlled part of Libya.
The progress registered in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region  was not seen across other battlefields in Libya. On the contrary, fierce fighting, aerial airstrikes and sabotage attacks were registered throughout the whole of the past week in western Libya. Although Zintani forces proclaimed that they would not enter Tripoli after last summer’s eviction, it is not impossible that a military assault will be launched in the coming weeks on the capital city by Operation Dignity-aligned troops. Conflicting claims have also been made throughout the past days as to the status of the strategic town of Aziziya, south of Tripoli. Overall, as was the case for the ‘Oil Crescent’ region before the ceasefire agreement, it appears that forces in western Libya are still well balanced and that no faction has the capacity of achieving a breakthrough, hence the protracted stalemate which has been paralysing and destroying life in this region since last year.
Fighting continued unabated throughout the past week also in Sirte. Despite the recent rumoured agreement over a ten-day ceasefire and pleas made by local elders for armed groups to leave the town and lift the siege imposed on it, Sirte witnessed during the past week intense fighting between members of the Libya Dawn-aligned 166th army battalion and members of groups and cells affiliated with the IS. IS forces are concentrated especially in the Giza military complex, in the Qadhafi-era Ouagadougou Centre, in the city’s university and in the construction site of a large electric power plant contracted to a Turkish company. As of Sunday 5 April, the army 166th battalion declared a curfew over the city of Sirte between 10pm and 6am, asking citizens to stay away from military sites and from areas under control of IS-affiliated elements in anticipation of significant fighting during the next days. Furthermore, entire areas and roads within Sirte have been cordoned off in an attempt to isolate IS members inside the city and cut their supply lines. As the intensity of the fighting between Misratan forces and the IS intensifies, the commercial port town is increasingly becoming a target for radical Islamist attacks, as promised by an IS member who vowed to make Misrata like Mosul in a recent jihadist publication. A proof of this comes from the suicide car-bomb attack undertaken on Saturday 4 April by a Sudanese fighter, affiliated with local Islamic State cells, who detonated himself alongside a truck laden with explosives at Misrata’s southern Sadada checkpoint. The attack caused the death of six and injured at least 21 whilst providing HoR members with a chance to show empathy towards the rival national bloc.


01Apr2015 			Delegations Back in Tripoli and Tobruk, Will the Agreement Stand?		
Several developments have been registered in the past days with regards to Libya confirming the trend that only pro-active engamente by international stakeholders can encourage positive developments on the ground at this stage. UN backed negotiations held in the Moroccan town of Skhirat were adjourned for the third time on Thursday 26 March. At this time, UNSMIL’s Chief Bernardino Leon was reportedly optimistic after both parties agreed to a detailed proposal on the scope of issues and institutions that should emerge alongside a national unity government as a result of talks. More specifically, as reported by the Libya Herald:

- A unity government headed by a President, and a Presidential Council composed of independent personalities not belonging to any party or affiliated with any group, and are acceptable to all parties and by all Libyans. The main members of the Presidential Council will be the president and his two deputies.
- The House of Representatives as a legislative body representing all Libyans under the full application of principles of legitimacy and inclusion.
- A High State Council inspired by similar institutions existing in a number of countries. A fundamental institution in the governance of the State
- The Constitutional Drafting Assembly.
A mechanism of cooperation between these institutions will be agreed on to achieve consensus at this critical stage.
- National Security Council.
- Municipalities Council.
The last two proposed bodies, UNSMIL said, would be shaped in the later stages of the talks.

Talks are scheduled to resume next week after a ten day hiatus to allow representatives on both sides of the divide to obtain the approval of the main institution backing each bloc: the House of Representatives in Tobruk and the rump General National Council in Tripoli. Clearly, the question everyone is asking right now is whether this time agreement reached under the auspices of the UN will stand or if it will be undermined once again by hardliners on both sides. Despite Leon’s tentative optimism, observers are in fact very cautious to describe recent developments as a ‘break through’ since already in the past the striking of a grand deal between main national blocs appeared within reach only to slip away as a result of pressures applied from within both blocs by hardliners opposing the political rapprochement process. As predictable, in fact, fractures and instability within both blocs are starting to resurface, with Thinni ranting at length against his Misratan Ministry of Interior – Omar al-Sinki- and cabinet in an interview with Tunisian media, while the rump GNC in Tripoli has sacked Omar al-Hassi from his post as ‘Prime Minister’ due to increasing internal pressures. Dialogue and negotiations continue nonetheless to be the only option on the table for international stakeholders that last week, on Friday 27 March, unanimously approved through the UN Security Council a resolution on Libya that keeps in place the arms embargo and renews for another six months the mandate of the UNSMIL mission.
The most significant breakthrough made thanks to the political rapprochement process remains, so far, the agreement reached last week between Operation Shuruq troops and Operation Dignity-aligned forces entrenched in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region, mostly federalist-aligned Petroleum Facilities Guard, which could lead to a full stabilisation of the ‘Oil Crescent’ region. The agreement would entail in fact a complete pull out of Operation Shuruq troops from the ‘Oil Crescent’ region. As a result of this, even though security checks and damage assessment on both Ras Lanuf and Sidra oil terminals still need to be undertaken, NOC officials are now aiming to re-open the ports in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region to provide the country’s economy with a much needed lifeline. Presently, Libya’s oil production has reportedly reached 622,000bpd according to a report issued on Thursday 26 March by the National Oil Corporation based in Tripoli, well below the pre-Revolution and pre-Operation Shuruq levels. The same report stated that the country’s gas production is 2.05 billion cubic feet a day. However, recent industry report indicated that currently the country’s oil output is fluctuating around 500,000bpd with the following distribution among producers: ~200,000bpd from ENI, ~71,000bpd from Sirte’s Oil Company and ~250,000 from the Arabian Gulf Oil Company (AGOCO) in the east of the country. Officials from the NOC confirmed that for the time being the bulk of crude and export was occurring through the eastern port of Hariga and Zueitina where 1.3M barrels have been loaded over the last two days.
Notwithstanding progress made in the ‘Oil Crescent’ region, however, Italy has decided to send a naval fleet to protect Italian shipping and oil rigs from possible disruptive attacks originating from the coast of Libya. The mission has been dubbed ‘Mare Sicuro’ (Safe Sea) and will reportedly involve: a landing helicopter dock vessel, two FREMM-class frigates, a patrol vessel and Predator UAVs. Furthermore, reports indicate that a contingent of marines will also be joining the mission using high-speed craft to intercept and board suspicious shipping. Although Italy’s mission will not benefit from any international or UN mandate and will thus be limited in its scope of action and engagement, this decision likely represents an attempt by the Italian government to lead the way for a UN or EU-backed broader effort in this area of the Mediterranean along the blueprint of what previously done with the ‘Mare Nostrum’ mission. This initiative, aimed at monitoring, rescuing and possibly deterring migration flows towards the coast of Italy was kick-started by the Italian government and then picked-up by the EU in the summer of 2014. With regards to Libya, overall observers should be careful about seeing this decision as a turn towards the military option, but should rather see it  as a way for the Italian government to protect its immediate interests and assets in the Mediterranean, whilst providing a concrete answers to possible fears mounting inside the country as to radical Islamists’ presence in nearby Libya and Tunisia. Lastly, the decision by italy seems to build on previous recommendations for the establishment of a naval blockade of Libya, so as to avoid the smuggling of weapons and natural resources to and from the country, that were made from the UN Security Council’s Panel of Experts on Libya last month and by UNSMIL’s Chief Bernardino Leon.

Share 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+LinkedIn 
  Recent Posts 
Review of Syria: A Recent History (14 May 2015)
Operation Idris (9 May 2015)
Negotiations Hit Yet Another Slump as Oil Sector Struggles (8 May 2015)
The July 2012 Libyan Election and the Origin of Post-Qadhafi Appeasement (29 Apr 2015)
All Eyes on Migrants as Political Deal Keeps Slipping Through (27 Apr 2015)
Milliband Puts His Foot in His Mouth on Libya (26 Apr 2015)
Are UK Failures in Libya to Blame for Mediterranean Migrant Crisis? (25 Apr 2015)
Migrant Issue on BBC 5 Live and Fan Mail (22 Apr 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Humanitarian Crisis In Sirte (22 Apr 2015)
Libya Dawn Repels Uprisings in Tripoli as Instability Plagues Libya (21 Apr 2015)
How to Solve the Crisis in the Mediterranean? (20 Apr 2015)
The Anglo-Senussi ‘War’ of 1915 – 17 and the Emergence of Modern Cyrenaica (17 Apr 2015)
Aiding the Assyrians Fight Against ISIS (16 Apr 2015)
Hawks Prevailing in Tobruk? Another ‘Lost’ Week for Libya (14 Apr 2015)
The ‘Oil Crescent’ is Pacified despite Tobruk’s New NOC (7 Apr 2015)
Delegations Back in Tripoli and Tobruk, Will the Agreement Stand? (1 Apr 2015)
Checks, Balances, and the Draft Agreement on the Political Transition in Libya (31 Mar 2015)
Haftar Holds the Key to Peace in Libya (26 Mar 2015)
Talks derailed again as Misratan Militias Face Jihadists (24 Mar 2015)
Smuggled Libya Gas Fuels Conflict (23 Mar 2015)
A Week of Waiting in Libya (16 Mar 2015)
Dialogue Resumes in Morocco as IS Militants Sweep Oil Fields (8 Mar 2015)
Why Picking Sides in Libya Won’t Work (6 Mar 2015)
ISIS Fighters Take Over Major Libyan Oilfields (5 Mar 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Explosion at ISIS-Controlled Hisba Building in Derna (4 Mar 2015)
Is This the Week That Makes or Breaks Libya? (2 Mar 2015)
Islamic State Will Flourish if the West Picks Sides in Libya (24 Feb 2015)
Russia Today Interview Explaining Why Libya is Where It is (24 Feb 2015)
Islamic State Gains Libya Foothold (24 Feb 2015)
HoR Suspend its Participation in UN Talks (23 Feb 2015)
Pack Interview with Cape Town Radio About Situation in Libya (20 Feb 2015)
Will Federalists Spoil the UN Negotiations’ Process? (17 Feb 2015)
The Islamic State Launches Another Offensive in Libya, What Next? (17 Feb 2015)
Egypt Launches Airstrikes in Derna After ISIS Beheads Coptic Christians (16 Feb 2015)
Libya’s Power Blocs are Fracturing (15 Feb 2015)
NY Times Editorial Pointing Out the Urgent Need For International Action in Libya (15 Feb 2015)
The Art of Seizing the Moment (Slava vs. Lars Part III) (10 Feb 2015)
Talks to Pay Symbolic Visit to Ghadames as Misratan Option Fails (9 Feb 2015)
Libya: Armed Politics and Regional Escalation (6 Feb 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Warplanes Strike Fajr Libya Positions in Bin Jawad (5 Feb 2015)
HoR Does Housekeeping by Shelving Political Isolation Law (4 Feb 2015)
Dialogue Continues in Geneva Despite Violence (30 Jan 2015)
Pack, Fitzgerald, Northern and Abdulrahman Al-Ageli to speak on Feb 9 at RUSI (29 Jan 2015)
At Least Eight Killed in Deadly Attack on Corinthia Hotel (28 Jan 2015)
Talks to Resume as Need for External Support Seems Now Inevitable (26 Jan 2015)
Do you require high quality analysis and forecasting on Libya, tailored to your organisation’s needs and individual interests? (21 Jan 2015)
How To End Libya’s War (21 Jan 2015)
Is the Tide Turning? Or Will Negotiations Bring Even More Divisions? (18 Jan 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Stopping Goods Seizure at Port of Benghazi and Airstrike Warnings for Misrata Airport and Seaport (14 Jan 2015)
As the State Collapses, Rival Blocks Agree to Talks in Geneva (12 Jan 2015)
Concerns grow that Libya is becoming a terrorist hot spot (10 Jan 2015)
Ageela Salah calls for a political solution as Greek tanker gets attacked (6 Jan 2015)
Libya in 2015: The Scramble for Oil and Scenarios for Transition (2 Jan 2015)
Libya continues to slide down a spiral of violence (31 Dec 2014)
Stalemate in the Oil Crescent? (19 Dec 2014)
The Arab Spring, Four Years On (18 Dec 2014)
Force Majeure Declared over Sidra and Ras Lanuf as Fighting Rages on (16 Dec 2014)
Libya Dawn Offensive Against the Oil Ports Kicks Off (13 Dec 2014)
Second Round of Negotiations Postponed Amid Leon’s Efforts (9 Dec 2014)
Different Western Perspectives to Foreign Mediation in Libya (8 Dec 2014)
Libya’s UN Talks to Resume Next Tuesday? (4 Dec 2014)
Tobruk Goes to Vienna as Haftar Describes Unrealistic Rosy Picture (30 Nov 2014)
All Out Fighting for Tripoli Resumes, the Demise of the Negotiations Illusion? (26 Nov 2014)
Post Supreme Court Ruling Uncertainty Continues in Divided Libya (19 Nov 2014)
Publication of Updated Post-Nov 6 Supreme Court Decision Report. (13 Nov 2014)
Questions from a Libyan living in Benghazi (13 Nov 2014)
Car Bombs Yield Further Escalation in Libya (13 Nov 2014)
Bomb Targets Thinni-Leon Meeting amid Oil Sector Setbacks (9 Nov 2014)
Supreme Court Dismisses House of Representatives (7 Nov 2014)
Introducing Arabic Articles about Libya Translated into English (5 Nov 2014)
The Battle for Oil and Money Quietly Continues (3 Nov 2014)
Review of The Concise Guide to Wine and Blind Tasting (3 Nov 2014)
Do We Need a New Negotiation Initiative? (30 Oct 2014)
Engagement Underway to Bolster Political Deal (26 Oct 2014)
Army Ordered to Move towards Tripoli as Tribal Leaders Gather in Egypt (22 Oct 2014)
Interview with Jason Pack and Mattia Toaldo on Voice of Russia (21 Oct 2014)
UK Backgammon Final Article cover in the Independent Newspaper (21 Oct 2014)
Libya: The war nobody can win (20 Oct 2014)
Haftar Goes All-In with Large Scale Assault on Benghazi (18 Oct 2014)
Egypt Intensifies Effort to Eradicate Militant Islamists in Eastern Libya (16 Oct 2014)
Libya Back on the Brink (9 Oct 2014)
On Proxies and Peace Making Perspectives in Libya (9 Oct 2014)
The Tsunami hits Monte Carlo, the Hobgoblin of Continuity, and Ideas to Reinvigorate the World Championship (7 Oct 2014)
Genius and Grace in Monte Carlo (7 Oct 2014)
LIA and Goldman Sachs Square off in Court (7 Oct 2014)
Is Misrata Beginning to Expand its Influence Beyond the Political Sphere? (4 Oct 2014)
Is France Preparing A Ground Invasion in Libya? (3 Oct 2014)
Ghadames to Host UNSMIL Brokered Talks (28 Sep 2014)
How to Give a Gammonish Recube (Slava vs. Lars Part II) (28 Sep 2014)
Al-Thinni’s New Cabinet Approved amid Preparations for Negotiation Talks (24 Sep 2014)
HoR Rejects Thinni’s Cabinet, Libya Dawn Tries to Restore Life in the Capital (21 Sep 2014)
Let the Scramble for Oil Money Begin (19 Sep 2014)
Is Operation Dignity Receiving Further Air Support from the UAE? (17 Sep 2014)
Why Scottish Independence is Bad for Libya (11 Sep 2014)
Libya: Stalemate or Calm before the (Return of the) Storm? (9 Sep 2014)
Is Libya the New Battleground for the Islamist-Nationalist Proxy War? (9 Sep 2014)
Thinni Given PM Mandate as Libya Dawn Tries to Put Facts on the Ground (2 Sep 2014)
Thinni Resigns Again, Tries to Breathe Life into HoR (29 Aug 2014)
Is the HoR Losing the Internal Battle for Legitimacy? (27 Aug 2014)
Latest Strikes Make Libya the New Proxy War in The Region (26 Aug 2014)
Is Operation Dawn Forces’s Tripoli Success The Beginning of the End or The Beginning of An Escalation In Conflict? (24 Aug 2014)
As HoR Continues its Work, Arab League Shuns Call for Foreign Intervention (21 Aug 2014)
Covert Intervention? Air Strike in Tripoli Sparks Anxiety Over Foreign Role in Libya (18 Aug 2014)
HoR Tries Raising its Profile by Pushing for Intervention and Disbandment of Militias (14 Aug 2014)
Toppling Qaddafi: Libya and the Limits of Liberal Intervention (14 Aug 2014)
Libya at a Turning Point? HoR Agrees to Direct Presidential Elections as Fighting Continues Unabated (13 Aug 2014)
Obama Discusses Libya With Thomas L. Friedman (11 Aug 2014)
The NYT on the Impact of the 2012 Benghazi Assault on US Strikes in Iraq (9 Aug 2014)
Despite Turmoil Libya’s Oil Production Remains Steady (8 Aug 2014)
Bernard-Henri Levy Urges The West to Act Before the Clock Strikes Midnight (8 Aug 2014)
Algeria and Egypt Defuse Intervention Talks as HoR Starts Its Works by Ordering Ceasefire (7 Aug 2014)
Elders Hope to Facilitate an Agreement in Cyrenaica As GNC President Dismisses HoR As ‘Unconstitutional’ (6 Aug 2014)
House of Representatives Postpones First Meeting Amid Violence and Displacements (3 Aug 2014)
Escalating Violence in Libya Necessitates International Mediation (1 Aug 2014)
Ansar Al-Sharia Claim Islamic Emirate in Benghazi (31 Jul 2014)
Libya on the Brink: How to Stop the Fighting (30 Jul 2014)
Libya Back in the Limelight, Will Actors on The Ground Capitalize from it? (30 Jul 2014)
No Eid Celebrations as Libya Descends into Chaos (29 Jul 2014)
Calls for Dialogue Fall on Deaf Ears as Militias Get Entrenched in Battle (27 Jul 2014)
Will the House of Representatives be nipped in the bud by ongoing violence? (25 Jul 2014)
Violence in the Capital Escalates as The Government Struggles to Sell Crude (25 Jul 2014)
Are the Parliamentary Elections a Precursor for More Violence? (23 Jul 2014)
As Fighting in the Captial Intensifies Zintanis Hold Airport (22 Jul 2014)
Are The Islamists as Organized as The Media Portrays Them to Be? (21 Jul 2014)
Islamist-Nationalist Rift Intensifies as Another Prominent Female Activist is Assassinated and Airport Workers Strike (17 Jul 2014)
Damage to the Airport and Aircrafts Are a Big Blow to a Weakened Business Sector (15 Jul 2014)
Is Tripoli Witnessing A Civil War between Misrata and Zintan or is this a minor clash between rogue brigades? (15 Jul 2014)
Despite Strikes in Brega, Ras Lanuf and Sidra Set to Open (14 Jul 2014)
Jadhran Hands over Port and Signs of Grand Bargain Emerging (4 Jul 2014)
The House of Representatives Election (26 Jun 2014)
Election Day Guide (25 Jun 2014)
Mary Fitzgerald’s Interview with Hiftar (24 Jun 2014)
Turks and Qataris Ordered to Leave Eastern Libya (23 Jun 2014)
Call for Part Time Consultants (21 Jun 2014)
Three Things to Watch for in the Libya Elections (21 Jun 2014)
Libya’s Faustian Bargains: The Hardcopy (12 Jun 2014)
Setting the Record Straight on the US’s role in Libya (10 Jun 2014)
Maiteg Accepts Supreme Court Decision and Resigns (10 Jun 2014)
Maetig Seizes Prime Ministry Building (3 Jun 2014)
Thinni Vows to Stay On (29 May 2014)
Ansar al-Sharia Mishandles the Media War (28 May 2014)
A Sober Evaluation of Hiftar’s Movement (If we can call it that) (23 May 2014)
The World According to Hiftar (23 May 2014)
“Leaders” of Libyan Army “Suspend” GNC (19 May 2014)
Game Theory, Kidnappings and the Pitfalls of Appeasement in Libya (17 May 2014)
Libya: Swinging Pendulums and Political Crematoria (16 May 2014)
Jordanian Ambassador Freed After Libya Kidnap (14 May 2014)
Libya’s Unexpected Strength (8 May 2014)
Ides of March Cambridge Invitational Tournament – March 2014 (8 May 2014)
Who’s for Prime Minister? (7 May 2014)
Jordan to Release Libyan Militant in Exchange for Ambassador (29 Apr 2014)
Invitation to Launching of Atlantic Council Report “Libya’s Faustian Bargains” (29 Apr 2014)
Libya Lifts Force Majeure on Second Oil Port (28 Apr 2014)
Rejoice and Export Crude, ya Libiyya (7 Apr 2014)
Libyan rebels and Government Agree to Gradually Reopen Occupied Oil Ports (7 Apr 2014)
Some April First Foolery Libyan Style (5 Apr 2014)
Libya Sees “Good Intentions” in Oil Port Talks; Rebel Split Seen (4 Apr 2014)
Jadhran’s Supporters Still Being Paid until November (2 Apr 2014)
Crimea as Europe’s Existential Question (28 Mar 2014)
Zeidan Speaks to Christian Amanpour (26 Mar 2014)
ENI Talks Gas with Libya, Shoring Up Non-Russian Supply (24 Mar 2014)
Lars Trabolt vs Vyachslav Pryadkin  in The WC Final — PART 1: Limiting Gammonish Volitility (24 Mar 2014)
Libya Leads World in Traffic Deaths Per Capita (20 Mar 2014)
Iraqi Insurgency Tactics Being Used by Jihadists in Libya (17 Mar 2014)
Sometimes It Is Tough Being a Pirate (17 Mar 2014)
Consensus Principle and Regional Development Budget Approved by Congress (13 Mar 2014)
Libya’s Prime Minister Ousted in Chaos Over Tanker (12 Mar 2014)
Libyan Oil Stolen at Sidra (9 Mar 2014)
The Future of Libya: Is ‘Pakistanisation’ a Foregone Conclusion? (8 Mar 2014)
An Absurd Connection between Ukraine and Libya (8 Mar 2014)
Possible Presidential Election? (6 Mar 2014)
GNC Members’ Cars Burned as Protestors Vandalise Congress (3 Mar 2014)
The Battle for Benghazi (1 Mar 2014)
Constitutional Committee Election Final Turnout Put at Half Million (24 Feb 2014)
45 Percent Turnout in Constitutional Committee Elections but 13 Seats Cannot be Declared (22 Feb 2014)
Too Cool for a Coup, Part Two (21 Feb 2014)
New Alignments between Zintan, GNC, Islamists and the Population (21 Feb 2014)
To Coup, Or Not to Coup? (16 Feb 2014)
Jadhran’s Brother to Be Returned to Libya after Arrest in UAE (13 Feb 2014)
Libya vs Western Bankers (13 Feb 2014)
Correcting the Course of Libya’s Revolution (Part 1/2) (12 Feb 2014)
Even Federalism Won’t Placate the Federalists (11 Feb 2014)
Zeidan’s Newly Proposed Cabinet has Been Rejected (11 Feb 2014)
Dunks and Dodging Bullets: Americans Chase Hoop Dreams in Libya (9 Feb 2014)
Protests Against the Extention of the GNC’s Mandate Passed Peacefully (8 Feb 2014)
The Feb 7 Extension of GNC issue (6 Feb 2014)
Libya PM Threatens Eastern Protesters with Troops (5 Feb 2014)
Is Jadhran’s Support Waning? (1 Feb 2014)
Libya: Date Set for Vote to Select Constitutional Panel (31 Jan 2014)
Madagascar’s Radio DJ President Jockeys for Power (28 Jan 2014)
Power Cut Misery to Continue Until Warshefana Clashes Resolved (28 Jan 2014)
Sebha Still Awaiting Military Support (28 Jan 2014)
Egyptian Embassy Staff ‘Seized’ in Libya (26 Jan 2014)
Libya Chaos Worsens (10 Jan 2014)
Killings of Briton and New Zealander Underscore Libya’s Security Breakdown (4 Jan 2014)
Anna Baldinetti looking for research assistant (3 Jan 2014)
Libya in 2014??? (31 Dec 2013)
Khattala with the Candlestick in the Diplomatic Mission (30 Dec 2013)
Happy Libyan Independence Day and Merry Christmas (24 Dec 2013)
Libya Probes Deadly Army Checkpoint Bombing (23 Dec 2013)

 




		©
						
			LibyaAnalysis.com  |  Site by Round Hex





