January | 2015 | Libya Analysis
January | 2015 | Libya Analysis

Libya AnalysisHome
Consulting

Consulting Services
Mission
Clients
Team


Pack’s Publications

Op Eds
Scholarly Book Reviews
Peer Review Publications
Media Appearances
The 2011 Libyan Uprisings: The Book
Backgammon Articles


CV
Public Lectures
About Jason Pack
Contact
Viewing posts from: January, 2015




Categories 
Adventure (13)

Africa (5)

Backgammon Articles (10)

Bespoke Products (1)

Blog Posts (87)

Egypt (30)

Featured Posts (95)

Federalism (77)

GNC (140)

House of Commons Briefings (6)

House of Representatives (52)

ICC (6)

Intervention (129)

Iran (5)

Kurdistan (KRG) (6)

Libyan Army/Militias (225)

Libyan Business/Investment (93)

Libyan Elections (106)

Maghreb (7)

Negotiations (11)

News (313)

Oil (65)

Pack's Publications (167)

Forthcoming Book (19)

Media Appearances (43)

Op Eds (84)

Peer Review Publications (5)

Scholarly Book Reviews (9)



ports (31)

Qaddafi (35)

Salafis (49)

Syria (13)

Terrorism (43)

Tuareg (5)

Tunisia (6)

UK Politics (2)

US Politics (63)

USLBA (4)

Wine (1)


Featured Posts Show All
Archives 
May 2015 (3)
April 2015 (13)
March 2015 (10)
February 2015 (15)
January 2015 (12)
December 2014 (8)
November 2014 (11)
October 2014 (15)
September 2014 (10)
August 2014 (17)
July 2014 (15)
June 2014 (10)
May 2014 (11)
April 2014 (8)
March 2014 (15)
February 2014 (15)
January 2014 (8)
December 2013 (11)
November 2013 (8)
October 2013 (12)
September 2013 (7)
August 2013 (6)
July 2013 (6)
June 2013 (10)
May 2013 (10)
April 2013 (8)
March 2013 (5)
February 2013 (9)
January 2013 (14)
December 2012 (5)
November 2012 (7)
October 2012 (14)
September 2012 (10)
August 2012 (8)
July 2012 (13)
June 2012 (20)
May 2012 (4)
April 2012 (3)
March 2012 (5)
February 2012 (4)
January 2012 (2)
December 2011 (4)
November 2011 (4)
October 2011 (9)
September 2011 (7)
August 2011 (2)
June 2011 (1)
April 2011 (2)
March 2011 (1)
February 2011 (1)



30Jan2015 			Dialogue Continues in Geneva Despite Violence		

Despite the assault on Tuesday 27 January on the Corinthia Hotel in Tripoli and, even more importantly, despite the continued fighting ongoing in several parts of the country which ultimately amounts to a failure of previously announced ceasefires, dialogue in Geneva continued throughout the week involving various stakeholders and local representatives. At the start of the week, rather generic but optimistic goals were set for negotiations, especially as multiple reports indicated that a two week timeframe was being self imposed to achieve the formation of a national unity government with the capabilities to impose itself on the territory, if necessary through the support of external peacekeepers. On Thursday, however, a significant concrete breakthrough was achieved with regards to Tawerghans and to their right to return to the city they were forced out from since 2011. UNSMIL’ statement on the matter reports:

In line with the positive environment that prevailed at the meeting, the UN facilitated an agreement between the municipalities of Misrata and Tawergha on the following points:

Establishment of a committee from the local council of Tawergha and whoever they call upon to help in visiting the prisons in the City of Misrata and to receive assurances about their conditions, and to review with the responsible authorities the charges against them and their legal status.
 The right of the people of Tawergha to return to their land through the establishment of a committee to discuss the mechanism to achieve that on the ground and to remove all obstacles and prepare all the appropriate conditions.

There was agreement that UNSMIL will follow up this process in cooperation with the two sides.

The breakthrough achieved with regards to the Tawergha community is not only encouraging from a humanitarian perspective, but also significant in that it highlights the key role that Misrata can and should now play in favoring negotiations. While the GNC continues to set excessively stringent preconditions to join talks and Haftar sends out ambiguous messages regarding its future ambitions in Libya, as talks return to Libya, key communities and stakeholders in both blocks should do everything possible to preserve the positive momentum developed in Geneva and prevent other elites and groups from derailing the ongoing rapprochement.
Misrata has now more than ever a strong incentive to act as peace-promoter also due to the economic hardships and stagnation that are slowly but surely engulfing the city as a result of the protracted crisis marring the country. This is due in part directly as a result of the security threat hanging over the city from Operation Dignity’s air force and in part as a result of the broader collapse of the Libyan oil sector and economy. Even Misrata’s steel factory is now operating to a mere third of its full capacity, due to lack of liquefied gas supplies coming in from Sirte and to the lack of vessels docking in the city’s port to pick up finished products for fear of airstrikes.
Lastly, a very worrying but interesting read for all those interestedin Libya is represented by Amnesty International’s recent report on abuses and possible war crimes being carried out in Benghazi since the start of Operation Dignity in May 2014. The report documents crimes committed by both rival sides active in the city. Interestingly, an aspect highlighted by this report, but so far underreported in media documenting the fight for Benghazi is the degree of revenge attacks carried out on families of Islamists believed to be aligned with Ansar al-Shari’a, the Muslim Brotherhood and other likeminded organisations.

Amnesty International has received reports that scores of family homes, shops and businesses of perceived Islamists, including leaders, current and former members of armed groups affiliated with the SCBR -possibly as many as one hundred in the al-Salmani neighbourhood alone- have been attacked with explosives or direct fire, ransacked, set on fire or demolished with bulldozers. Civilian property belonging to individuals of Misratah origin have also been targeted. Such attacks have been reportedly carried out by “neighbourhood youths” aligned with Operation Dignity forces, reportedly following incitement on social networking sites such as Facebook.
It appears that, in a few cases, houses came under attack that may have been used for military purposes, including for storing ammunition or as a base for launching military attacks, and would therefore (temporarily) lose their immunity from attack under international humanitarian law. However, Amnesty International has gathered evidence showing that in most cases such attacks have been carried out against protected civilian homes of perceived Islamists or members of groups affiliated with SCBR merely in retaliation for their political  activities, association to individuals involved in the fighting or origin.

The complete Amnesty’s “Benghazi’s Descent into Chaos’ report can be found here.



29Jan2015 			Pack, Fitzgerald, Northern and Abdulrahman Al-Ageli to speak on Feb 9 at RUSI		
It is my pleasure to invite you to a panel discussion in LONDON on February 9th from 1100-1300 about the current situation in Libya, exploring possibilities for both further escalation and political reconciliation, analysing future security challenges, and associated effects upon regional and European security in the near to medium term.
The discussion will be chaired by Jason Pack, President and Founder of Libya-Analysis and confirmed panellists include:

Richard Northern, former British Ambassador to Libya (2010-2011)
Mary Fitzgerald, Journalist reporting from Libya since 2011
Abdul Rahman al-Ageli, Founder of the Libyan Youth Forum

You may register and find out more details by clicking here.


28Jan2015 			At Least Eight Killed in Deadly Attack on Corinthia Hotel		
Gunmen on 27 January detonated car bombs outside the Corinthia Hotel in central Tripoli then entered the hotel firing at staff and guests.  One of the attackers reportedly blew himself up by detonating an explosive vest. Three security guards and five foreigners were reportedly killed, including an American and a Frenchman. Social media reports  suggest the attack was carried out by supporters of Islamic State in retaliation for the death of Anas al-Libi in the US, although this remains unverified. Mohamed Eljarh discusses the implications of this attack in this article for Foreign Policy
The Islamic State has become more visible in western and southern Libya in recent weeks after months of fierce fighting in the eastern city of Benghazi, where it has faced troops led by Gen. Khalifa Haftar. Militant Islamist groups in the east are facing increasing pressure from the national army and security apparatus, which is loyal to the internationally recognized government in Tobruk. (Most of the country’s Islamist militias are fighting on the side of the rival, Tripoli-based government — whose head, Omar al-Hassi, is said to have been a guest in the Corinthia Hotel at the time of the attack.) The army has successfully ratcheted up the pressure on militant groups in the east by cutting off their supplies and surrounding the areas in which they operate. The success of these operations has likely pushed many Islamic State militants and others to shift to other areas of the country.
The attack in Tripoli today, Jan. 27, underlines the huge threat from extremist groups throughout Libya. As Libyan delegations meet in Geneva for a second round of internationally mediated talks in a bid to find a political settlement to end the ongoing crisis in Libya, terrorist groups such as the Islamic State continue to destabilize the situation, recently even capturing the eastern city of Derna. And while militias continue to battle each other west of Tripoli, Islamic State fighters have managed to strike at the heart of the capital with car bombs and suicide bombers, fueling the cycle of destabilization.
 
This attack marks a shocking escalation in violence as foreigners are brought into the conflict’s firing line. The Wall Street Journal outlines the international community’s response to the attack within Libya:
International companies have gone to a heightened state of alert, said a Libyan manager working for a foreign joint venture in Tripoli. “We were asked to vacate our offices and told that they will be closed until Sunday,” the manager said.
The Corinthia has long hosted journalists and temporary offices for international organizations, including meetings of the U.N. support mission in Libya.
 
A joint statement on Libya was today issued by the Governments of the United States, France, Germany, Italy, Malta, and the United Kingdom condemning the attack on the Corinthia and reaffirming support for the UN’s ongoing dialogue efforts. This interesting BBC report on the attack and what life is like living under Libya’s militias is also worth a look.


26Jan2015 			Talks to Resume as Need for External Support Seems Now Inevitable		
Last Friday it was confirmed that UN-backed negotiations in Geneva will resume during the current week, after the vast majority of parties invited agreed to this. The GNC remains the only dissonant voice in this phase as it first announced that it would take part in negotiations if they were held inside Libya, and then pulled out altogether in response to Operation Dignity’s conquest of Benghazi’s branch of the Libyan Central Bank. UNSMIL Chief Bernardino Leon confirmed that political representatives from Libya’s main blocks will resume negotiations on Monday 26 January and will be joined by influential municipalities’ representatives on Wednesday 28 and armed militias on Friday 30 January. The main goals behind these talks remain those outlined in the past few weeks: the formation of a national unity government, the proclamation of a general ceasefire and the adoption of a new constitution.
Although ceasefires were unilaterally declared more than a week ago by all the major military players in the country, including Libya Dawn, Operation Shuruq and Operation Dignity, events occurred on the ground in the past few days confirmed once again that Libyan blocks are very heterogeneous in their compositions. In fact, several armed clashes and confrontations were registered throughout western Libya and the ‘Oil Crescent’ region in a clear indication that hardline groups are present within both blocks and are actively trying undermine the efforts of negotiators in Geneva. In light of this, it is worth asking how negotiations can ever be successful if several militias and armed groups remain adamantly unwilling to demobilize inside the country. The answer was provided by UNSMIL Chief Bernardino Leon in a very interesting interview with the Financial Times. Leon openly stated that the possibility of a peacekeeping, monitoring force being sent to Libya is currently being explored, as previously hinted by Italy’s PM Matteo Renzi.

 “In this dialogue our main target is to address a unity government and second of all is stabilisation, which will require a ceasefire and weapons control,” he told the Financial Times this week in his first extensive print interview since taking over as special envoy in September. “So the UN will need to have monitors on all ports, airports and all country entrances. We will require a timetable from all militias to leave cities, airports and all vital facilities, and this will require international monitoring.”
Mr León, speaking from Tunisia, said he has already discussed the possibility of peacekeepers with officials from the US, UK, France and other countries. He said the presence of monitors would have to be supported by all sides in Libya. Italy’s Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said this month that he would consider dispatching peacekeepers to Libya, a former Italian colony.

Even more worryingly, in the interview Leon openly confirms that in UNSMIL’s own assessment the operational capabilities and strength of radical Islamist groups akin to the Islamic State are growing significantly, not only in traditional hotspots throughout eastern Libya, but also in other parts of the country. This seems consistent with the growing number of reports describing ambushes and surprise attacks on army outposts in the southern part of the country and high profile attacks in Tripoli as well as with the recent announcement that Ansar al-Shari’a and other radical groups established a ‘Shoura Council of Revolutionaries’ in Beida, the base of al-Thinni’s government, following the blueprint of Benghazi’s and Derna’s shoura councils in a bid to fight Operation Dignity supporters present in the city and change its overall alliance in this crisis. In conclusion, the picture on the ground in Libya continues to be more complex than it is portrayed to be by most of the media, but will this be the week we finally see some definitive improvements and semplification at the political level at least?


21Jan2015 			Do you require high quality analysis and forecasting on Libya, tailored to your organisation’s needs and individual interests?		
Does your organisation need to understand what is happening in Libya and how this will affect current or future investments?
If the answer is yes then you need the services of Libya-Analysis ® (www.libya-analysis.com). Libya-Analysis ® is a consultancy company focusing solely on Libya and is therefore uniquely placed to provide the knowledge and understanding your organisation needs. Our bespoke Weekly Report is a comprehensive subscription product that monitors and analyses developments in Libya. Our reports are compiled by highly-regarded experts, analysts and academics who work extensively on Libya across a variety of sectors, and are able to bring insight and clarity to an increasingly complex situation
To find out more about our bespoke product, or to register for a trial subscription, please contact info@libya-analysis.com.


21Jan2015 			How To End Libya’s War		
The West’s approach to the Libyan crisis has relied on an oversimplified narrative, which sees a legitimate anti-Islamist government in Tobruk facing off against an Islamist administration in Tripoli. This obscures reality and has not prevented the fighting descending into a zero-sum grudge match unrelated to religion. In my latest op-ed for the New York Times I outline key steps the international community should take to ensure that the latest round of dialogue in Geneva succeeds in creating the right incentives for lasting peace.


All parties know that these talks are the last chance for a nonmilitary solution. If dialogue fails, the country will be de facto partitioned and the war over resources will resume with increased intensity. If that happens, Italy’s prime minister, Matteo Renzi, has threatened to push for a peacekeeping force.
If the international community wishes to give both sides the right incentives to reach a lasting deal, Western democracies must reconsider the logic behind their policies. The Nov. 6, 2014, ruling by the Tripoli-based Libyan Supreme Court provides the perfect pretext. It stated that the constitutional amendment giving rise to the House of Representatives was procedurally invalid, that the June 2014 election should never have happened, and that consequently the ensuing body cannot be vested with sovereignty.
Western nations have barely responded — meekly pointing out that they are studying the decision and that the court’s ruling was made under duress. But Islamist militia pressure on the court does not necessarily invalidate its carefully worded opinion, which states that neither the House, nor its opponents, nor the expired Parliament, are to be considered Libya’s sovereign authority.
Western governments are reluctant to acknowledge the implications of the Supreme Court ruling because many of them are secretly cheering for the Tobruk faction to either reconquer the country or dominate a national unity government. After all, the Tobruk government claims to be fighting Ansar al-Sharia in Benghazi — the very same group that killed the American ambassador, Christopher Stevens, in 2012.

I conclude that:

The door is still open for Western nations to formally withdraw their recognition of the House of Representatives in light of the Supreme Court decision. Because the Islamist-aligned “government” in Tripoli is fracturing by the day and possesses an even more tenuous claim to legitimacy than its rival, such a move would leave Libya without any sovereign authority.
Western nations should make clear that they will not recognize any sovereign authority if negotiations fail to produce a national unity government committed to completing the constitutional process. They should also take strong steps to prevent regional interference while simultaneously inviting both sides’ external patrons to the table.

I also received these comments from Fergal Hatchell in response to my NYT article. Fergal  spent time working in Misrata last year with both businessmen and militiamen alike, all of whom he says were extremely decent to him.

It was my experience that the bulk of Misratans love their families and wanted only to live in peace. However, now they want vengeance, as you rightly state. I’m in constant contact with lots of friends there and I detect this in what they say.

If the UN, or somebody, doesn’t do what you say i.e. stop recognising Tobruk and give more leverage to the Supreme Court’s decision, we are only prolonging the agony on the Libyan people. Hopefully, your vision of the future for Libya will be seen by someone in authority. It’s the only lasting solution.






18Jan2015 			Is the Tide Turning? Or Will Negotiations Bring Even More Divisions?		
On Friday 16 January Libya Dawn and Operation Shuruq announced a general ceasefire with immediate effect, promising to resort to the use of weapons only for defensive purposes if attacked by ‘other parties’. This development came at the end of a promising week where Libya’s rival sides finally gathered in Geneva for a second round of UN-backed negotiations following those held in Ghadames in September. Talks are set to resume again next week and are scheduled to host not only political representatives from the two national-level blocks, but also military ones as well as municipalities, civil society representatives and tribal and local leaders. At the end of this week’s negotiations, in a rather optimistic and positive atmosphere, it was announced that delegates had agreed to a number of confidence-building measures to be taken, including:


Ensuring the release of those detained illegally;
Ensuring the immediate release of those abducted and the provision of full information on the missing to their families‫;
Addressing the situation of the refugees inside and outside the country, and the internally displaced, in particular those affected by the latest clashes;
Enabling humanitarian aid to reach affected areas in coordination with international organisations and civil society institutions, including medical, educational, life-sustaining and public services, with special attention to the most affected regions and areas‫;
Ensuring an end to media campaigns that provoke division. Political, religious and media messages should be directed to promote reconciliation, tolerance and national unity‫;
The reopening of airports and ports in the country, of airspace especially with neighboring countries, the facilitating of aviation and shipping routes as well as land transportation throughout the country and an end to assaults on vital installations ‫ (such as oil, gas and electrical facilities);
Ensuring the freedom of movement for Libyans throughout the county;‫
The payment of salaries to all those who have a right to them without discrimination on any basis ;
Appropriate mechanisms to ensure the import the necessary foodstuffs and supplies


After Monday’s last-minute decision by the GNC to boycott the first round of upcoming talks in Geneva, the declaration of a unilateral general ceasefire by Libya Dawn and Operation Shuruq seems to suggest that the higher military echelons of the Tripoli establishment caved in to pressure and answered the call coming from several local municipalities, formally aligned with the GNC administration, which came out throughout the past week with strong statements of support for participation in the dialogue initiative. Among them, it is worth specifying, were those of Misrata and Tripoli, whose declarations prompted an ‘order’ by the al-Hassi government that local administrations do not meddle in the national and international dialogue process. The renewed threat of sanctions arising from Western institutions and international organisations is also likely to have encouraged the decision made by Libya Dawn and Operation Shuruq. It remains now to be seen, however, whether this and Abu Sahmain’s recent trip to Turkey will be enough to persuade the GNC to attend next week’s negotiations, as hoped by UNSMIL Chief Bernardino Leon, or if it will remain anchored to its hardline stance.
Regardless of what decision the rump GNC will take, it is and still will be too early to tell if the tide has turned in Libya. Despite some morale-boosting progress, the situation on the ground remains extremely dire and most, if not all, of the problems the country faced since the aftermath of the 2011 Revolution remain unaddressed and without a(n easy) solution. Most importantly, the tensions and divisions currently emerging in the Libya Dawn camp could very well be replicated in the Tobruk-establishment camp if federalist forces or other local stakeholders refuse the outcome of negotiations, potentially leading up to an even more fractured and unstable situation. Reports are starting to emerge that already within the Libya Dawn camp the declaration of a ceasefire has been rejected by several militias and military commanders.  As a matter of fact, although in the past few months discussions around opposing blocks in Libya tended to present them in monolithic ways, we should always be aware that reality on the ground is probably closer to the contrary. Blocks continue to be characterised by a highly fractious and fluid nature that could very well manifest itself through the establishment of new alliances and broad re-alignments in light of the Geneva talks and the pressure they are exerting on the country’s leaders.



14Jan2015 			From the Libyan Press: Stopping Goods Seizure at Port of Benghazi and Airstrike Warnings for Misrata Airport and Seaport		
Special thanks to our friends at Industry Arabic, the leader in Arabic translation services, for these recent translations from the Libyan press:
Committee Formed to Stop Goods Seizure at Port of Benghazi
Originally appeared in: Al-Shorouk
Tripoli – Jan. 10 2015
The Benghazi Municipal Council has agreed with the Benghazi Customs and Port Authority to form an emergency committee to end the seizure of goods building up in the port’s depot, which has been closed amid armed clashes.
The council’s media office director, Maaz al-Shabli, in a press statement last night said that municipal head Omar Abdullah al-Bara’si, along with council members, met with the director of the Customs Authority, General Ramadan Jagrim, and the designated director of the port, Anwar al-Feitouri, to discuss the goods that have accumulated in the port. They also looked at ways of getting foodstuffs and medicines out from the Jalyana and Hadhira Ganfouda port.
Al-Shabli explained that those present agreed to form an emergency committee at the Port of Benghazi tasked with transporting goods and providing protection to them. This committee is to be in communication with the Benghazi municipality.
The city of Benghazi has witnessed violent fighting between Libyan Army forces and the Shura Council of Benghazi revolutionaries, which has led to the death and wounding of dozens.
 
Libyan Air Force cautions against using Misrata airport and seaport
Originally appeared in: Worldakhbar.com
Jan. 7 2015
A Libyan official announced on Wednesday that the Libyan military has cautioned against the use of the Misrata airport and seaport as they are targeted by the Libyan Air Force.
Major Mohammed al-Hijazi, official spokesperson for Operation Dignity led by General Khalifa Haftar, renewed the warning of the army’s chief of staff and the leadership of Operation Dignity to all who use the Misrata airport and seaport, stating that they have become direct targets of the Libyan Air Force. Libyan Air Force planes are closely following movements in the seaport and airport, particularly since the addition of modern, high-maneuvering and long-range Sukhoi Su-22 planes. Any sea or air units that enter into these areas will be targeted by the Libyan Air Force.
In press statements made this evening, al-Hijazi said that “the Misrata air and sea ports have become a curse on the Libyan people as they have begun to facilitate terrorism and extremism in all its forms, including attracting weapons and terrorists that are exported to all other Libyan cities. This is especially the case for Benghazi where the Libyan army now controls 95% of the city, except for the Souq al-Hout and al-Leithy al-Qadim districts.” On measures being taken by the National Libyan Army to free the city of Derna from extremist terrorist gangs, al-Hijazi confirmed that Derna is under full siege by army units, especially in Ain Mara and Sidi Khaled. He also confirmed that the army is waiting for orders to begin the battle to liberate Derna and rid it of extremist terrorist groups.
In other developments, Turkish Airlines announced that it has ceased all flights to Libyan airports because of the deterioration of the security situation in Libya.
The company halted all flights to Misrata on Monday and said on Tuesday that it would not continue flights to Tripoli, Benghazi, and Sabha, which were stations for Turkish planes.
Turkish Airlines had previously stopped its flights to Tripoli, Benghazi, and Sabha, and limited its flights to Misrata, the third largest Libyan city located 200 km northwest of Tripoli. 
A Turkish Airlines spokesperson said: “We have halted all flights to Misrata until further notice for operational reasons,” adding that “Turkish Airlines currently no longer provides any flights to Libya.”
An official from the Misrata International airport said, “Turkish Airlines has notified us that it has temporarily stopped its flights to the airport” because of the Libyan Air Force air raids targeting the airport during the past few days, according to media sources.
The Libyan Air Force conducted an air raid last week on military targets in the city of Misrata, including the airport and the seaport that were being used by Fajr Libya militias to access weapons supplies, according to Libyan military sources.
The Libyan government has accused Turkey of supporting the militias that have taken control of Tripoli, and that primarily come through the coastal city of Misrata.


12Jan2015 			As the State Collapses, Rival Blocks Agree to Talks in Geneva		
On Saturday 10 January, the United Nations Support Mission in Libya finally announced that a second round of UN-sponsored negotiations between rival Libyan blocks would be held in Geneva during the week commencing on Monday 12 January. This development comes after a first round of inconclusive, if not abortive, talks held in September in the city of Ghat and after weeks and weeks of postponements and delays caused by both sides’ inability to compromise over any talks-related issue (from the negotiations’ location up until who participants should be).
The achievement of this was possible thanks to Bernardino Leon’s efforts who, on Friday alone, met once again in both Tobruk and Tripoli with all political and military stakeholders, including an unprecedented meeting with Operation Dignity’s Chief Khalifa Haftar. The agenda agreed upon for the talks is very ambitious. If anything out of discussions regarding the formation of a national salvation government, inclusive of all sides, and the implementation of ceasefire agreements turns out to be successful, Libyans could and should finally feel optimistic again.
On the other hand, a failure of this round of talks would spell disaster for Libya. As stated by the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs Federica Mogherini on Saturday, these talks represent probably Libya’s last chance to avoid the complete collapse of its state. Despite optimistic plans being devised by the Tripoli and Tobruk governments, especially at the military level, a very interesting article by Ulf Laessing for Reuters paints a dramatic, if not terrifying, picture of the state of the economy and finances in Libya:

Neither side — the internationally-recognized government in the east and a rival outfit which seized Tripoli in summer — has prepared a budget for 2015. Both seem determined to defeat each other on the battlefield, with oil facilities, ports and steel plants their targets.
The turmoil has cut the value of Libya’s currency by 30 percent against the dollar on the black market as oil exports are the only means of funding the budget and an annual import bill of $30 billion. An employee at a state bank in Tripoli said the central bank had stopped making dollars available months ago.
Worse is to come. Husni Bey, head of one of Libya’s biggest private firms, said the central bank might have to devalue the dinar by 50 percent to offset the loss of oil revenues and pay public salaries. Libya had a budget deficit of around $15 billion at the end of November, the bank said, before oil output fell by half.

The picture described above is so bleak that analysts focusing on Libya are starting to hope that, despite the rhetoric still being employed by both sides on the public stage, rival blocks will finally come to their senses and take Geneva’s talks as an opportunity to defuse the crisis. If they won’t do it, future generations of Libyans should held them accountable for what could go down in history as the de facto suicide of a nation.
Lastly, another question worth asking at this stage is what, if any, this week’s events in Paris will have over France’ stances towards Libya. Already last week, President Hollande and Defence Minister Le Drian had articulated through their statements very strong positions, confirming France’s great concern at the growing levels of lawlessness allowing for large swaths of Libya’s territory to be used as a terrorists’ safe haven. Although the French public’s response to the attacks on Charlie Hebdo has been, so far, mostly orderly and no calls for military actions overseas have been made, both Libyan blocks should keep in mind the growing odds that European countries will finally pull the trigger and push for a UN-backed intervention under the guise of a peacekeeping mission if no progress are made.


10Jan2015 			Concerns grow that Libya is becoming a terrorist hot spot		
As  clashes between Libya’s two rival power centres intensify and Bernardino Leon’s mediation efforts look increasingly unlikely to succeed, concerns are growing among the international community that terror groups will take advantage of this chaos to strengthen their presence in Libya. This could have a devastating and destabilizing effect not only on the Sahel region but also on Europe. Read my contributions on this topic at Voice of America news, here and here.
Jason Pack, president of consultancy Libya-Analysis.Com, said Libya has become the major source of destabilization in the region.
“Libya is a huge exporter of terror, arms and illegal migrants to Europe,” Pack said. “It is a force for destabilization in the Sahel region in north Africa, in the southern Mediterranean and the Middle East.”
Egypt and the United Arab Emirates are supporting the Tobruk government militarily and have carried out airstrikes on Islamist militant positions, Pack said.
“This is an unwinnable conflict between the Tobruk government and the Tripoli government,” he said. “Fueling in more arms on one side or another is going to drive to the country more towards chaos.”
For any Arabic speakers, see also this clip  of myself and Mohammed Buisier on the ‘Free Hour Show’ discussing the postponement of UN-mediated dialogue between Tobruk and Tripoli in light of the worsening political and security division between the forces in this conflict.


06Jan2015 			Ageela Salah calls for a political solution as Greek tanker gets attacked		
The second round of UN-sponsored negotiations scheduled for Monday 5 January has been postponed once again due to lack of agreement over what could be the appropriate location for them. Contrary to rumors circulating last week, it appears now that both sides are willing to carry out negotiations only within Libya. On an ecnouraging note, speaking from Cairo, HoR President Ageela Salah made some interesting remarks with regards to the impossibility of pursuing a military solution to solve this crisis and about the need to pursue dialogue. Although these statements will probably remain only on paper, they do appear after a week packed with rumors of growing tension between HoR members and the higher echelons of Operation Dignity over the management of the current crisis. In light of  rapproachement maneuvers being carried out in Qatar by the HoR-affiliated Libya Minister of Foreign Affairs, these statements could even  be harbingers of significant changes and developments within the Tubruq-based block.
The situation in the country, however, continues to be highly unstable and volatile. On Sunday, a jet believed to belong to air forces loyal to Khalifa Haftar’s Operation Dignity attacked a Greek-owned tanker that was approaching the port of Derna. Although the tanker ‘Araevo’ was affiliated with the NOC and had been travelling for years between Marsa-Brega’s and Derna’s ports, its behavior was deemed ‘suspicious’ by Operation Dignity forces that attacked it, causing the death of two crew members and prompting a strong reaction from the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Whilst the ‘collateral damage’ caused by this attack might end up being considered ‘minimal’ in the bigger picture, and it certainly does not come as a surprise to those monitoring developments in the ports sector, it nonetheless shows the disruptive potential that prolonged instability in Libya might have on both the Sahel and the Mediterranean basin. In regard to this, during the past few days growing frustration for the lack of significant progress on the negotiations front led a number of countries neighboring Libya to call for an external intervention to stop the fighting and disband rival militias. While not openly speaking of intervention, a similar message was conveyed also by the French Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian to troops stationed in Niger. However, on Monday, French President Francois Hollande ruled out the possibility of a French-led military intervention in the country, underlining that this could happen only in the framework of an operation led by larger international organisations. Nonetheless, the statements made by Hollande reported below leave little doubt as to the intentions of French forces to adopt an approach based on drone-enforced surveillance and targeted strikes similar to that employed by the US in other regions of the greater Middle East marred by lawlessness and by the presence of radical militants (e.g. Yemen, Pakistan).

“We are making sure to contain the terrorism that took refuge there, in southern Libya. But France will not intervene in Libya because it’s up to the international community to take its responsibility,” Hollande said Monday on France-Inter radio. While he ruled out unilateral intervention inside Libya, he said French forces will strike Islamic extremists “every time they leave these places where they are hiding.”
To do that, France is setting up a military base in northern Niger, 100 kilometers (60 miles) from the lawless Libyan border region. About 200 troops are deployed in the desert outpost at Madama. French and U.S. drones are already operating out of Niger’s capital, Niamey.




02Jan2015 			Libya in 2015: The Scramble for Oil and Scenarios for Transition		
If you are Washington, DC based I suggest you attend “ Libya in 2015: The Scramble for Oil and Scenarios for Transition” an event at the Middle East Institute on 18th and Massachusetts that I will be speaking  at along with Karim Mezran and David Mack.  It on Wednesday January 7 at noon.  You can RSVP by clicking here.

Share 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+LinkedIn 
  Recent Posts 
Review of Syria: A Recent History (14 May 2015)
Operation Idris (9 May 2015)
Negotiations Hit Yet Another Slump as Oil Sector Struggles (8 May 2015)
The July 2012 Libyan Election and the Origin of Post-Qadhafi Appeasement (29 Apr 2015)
All Eyes on Migrants as Political Deal Keeps Slipping Through (27 Apr 2015)
Milliband Puts His Foot in His Mouth on Libya (26 Apr 2015)
Are UK Failures in Libya to Blame for Mediterranean Migrant Crisis? (25 Apr 2015)
Migrant Issue on BBC 5 Live and Fan Mail (22 Apr 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Humanitarian Crisis In Sirte (22 Apr 2015)
Libya Dawn Repels Uprisings in Tripoli as Instability Plagues Libya (21 Apr 2015)
How to Solve the Crisis in the Mediterranean? (20 Apr 2015)
The Anglo-Senussi ‘War’ of 1915 – 17 and the Emergence of Modern Cyrenaica (17 Apr 2015)
Aiding the Assyrians Fight Against ISIS (16 Apr 2015)
Hawks Prevailing in Tobruk? Another ‘Lost’ Week for Libya (14 Apr 2015)
The ‘Oil Crescent’ is Pacified despite Tobruk’s New NOC (7 Apr 2015)
Delegations Back in Tripoli and Tobruk, Will the Agreement Stand? (1 Apr 2015)
Checks, Balances, and the Draft Agreement on the Political Transition in Libya (31 Mar 2015)
Haftar Holds the Key to Peace in Libya (26 Mar 2015)
Talks derailed again as Misratan Militias Face Jihadists (24 Mar 2015)
Smuggled Libya Gas Fuels Conflict (23 Mar 2015)
A Week of Waiting in Libya (16 Mar 2015)
Dialogue Resumes in Morocco as IS Militants Sweep Oil Fields (8 Mar 2015)
Why Picking Sides in Libya Won’t Work (6 Mar 2015)
ISIS Fighters Take Over Major Libyan Oilfields (5 Mar 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Explosion at ISIS-Controlled Hisba Building in Derna (4 Mar 2015)
Is This the Week That Makes or Breaks Libya? (2 Mar 2015)
Islamic State Will Flourish if the West Picks Sides in Libya (24 Feb 2015)
Russia Today Interview Explaining Why Libya is Where It is (24 Feb 2015)
Islamic State Gains Libya Foothold (24 Feb 2015)
HoR Suspend its Participation in UN Talks (23 Feb 2015)
Pack Interview with Cape Town Radio About Situation in Libya (20 Feb 2015)
Will Federalists Spoil the UN Negotiations’ Process? (17 Feb 2015)
The Islamic State Launches Another Offensive in Libya, What Next? (17 Feb 2015)
Egypt Launches Airstrikes in Derna After ISIS Beheads Coptic Christians (16 Feb 2015)
Libya’s Power Blocs are Fracturing (15 Feb 2015)
NY Times Editorial Pointing Out the Urgent Need For International Action in Libya (15 Feb 2015)
The Art of Seizing the Moment (Slava vs. Lars Part III) (10 Feb 2015)
Talks to Pay Symbolic Visit to Ghadames as Misratan Option Fails (9 Feb 2015)
Libya: Armed Politics and Regional Escalation (6 Feb 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Warplanes Strike Fajr Libya Positions in Bin Jawad (5 Feb 2015)
HoR Does Housekeeping by Shelving Political Isolation Law (4 Feb 2015)
Dialogue Continues in Geneva Despite Violence (30 Jan 2015)
Pack, Fitzgerald, Northern and Abdulrahman Al-Ageli to speak on Feb 9 at RUSI (29 Jan 2015)
At Least Eight Killed in Deadly Attack on Corinthia Hotel (28 Jan 2015)
Talks to Resume as Need for External Support Seems Now Inevitable (26 Jan 2015)
Do you require high quality analysis and forecasting on Libya, tailored to your organisation’s needs and individual interests? (21 Jan 2015)
How To End Libya’s War (21 Jan 2015)
Is the Tide Turning? Or Will Negotiations Bring Even More Divisions? (18 Jan 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Stopping Goods Seizure at Port of Benghazi and Airstrike Warnings for Misrata Airport and Seaport (14 Jan 2015)
As the State Collapses, Rival Blocks Agree to Talks in Geneva (12 Jan 2015)
Concerns grow that Libya is becoming a terrorist hot spot (10 Jan 2015)
Ageela Salah calls for a political solution as Greek tanker gets attacked (6 Jan 2015)
Libya in 2015: The Scramble for Oil and Scenarios for Transition (2 Jan 2015)
Libya continues to slide down a spiral of violence (31 Dec 2014)
Stalemate in the Oil Crescent? (19 Dec 2014)
The Arab Spring, Four Years On (18 Dec 2014)
Force Majeure Declared over Sidra and Ras Lanuf as Fighting Rages on (16 Dec 2014)
Libya Dawn Offensive Against the Oil Ports Kicks Off (13 Dec 2014)
Second Round of Negotiations Postponed Amid Leon’s Efforts (9 Dec 2014)
Different Western Perspectives to Foreign Mediation in Libya (8 Dec 2014)
Libya’s UN Talks to Resume Next Tuesday? (4 Dec 2014)
Tobruk Goes to Vienna as Haftar Describes Unrealistic Rosy Picture (30 Nov 2014)
All Out Fighting for Tripoli Resumes, the Demise of the Negotiations Illusion? (26 Nov 2014)
Post Supreme Court Ruling Uncertainty Continues in Divided Libya (19 Nov 2014)
Publication of Updated Post-Nov 6 Supreme Court Decision Report. (13 Nov 2014)
Questions from a Libyan living in Benghazi (13 Nov 2014)
Car Bombs Yield Further Escalation in Libya (13 Nov 2014)
Bomb Targets Thinni-Leon Meeting amid Oil Sector Setbacks (9 Nov 2014)
Supreme Court Dismisses House of Representatives (7 Nov 2014)
Introducing Arabic Articles about Libya Translated into English (5 Nov 2014)
The Battle for Oil and Money Quietly Continues (3 Nov 2014)
Review of The Concise Guide to Wine and Blind Tasting (3 Nov 2014)
Do We Need a New Negotiation Initiative? (30 Oct 2014)
Engagement Underway to Bolster Political Deal (26 Oct 2014)
Army Ordered to Move towards Tripoli as Tribal Leaders Gather in Egypt (22 Oct 2014)
Interview with Jason Pack and Mattia Toaldo on Voice of Russia (21 Oct 2014)
UK Backgammon Final Article cover in the Independent Newspaper (21 Oct 2014)
Libya: The war nobody can win (20 Oct 2014)
Haftar Goes All-In with Large Scale Assault on Benghazi (18 Oct 2014)
Egypt Intensifies Effort to Eradicate Militant Islamists in Eastern Libya (16 Oct 2014)
Libya Back on the Brink (9 Oct 2014)
On Proxies and Peace Making Perspectives in Libya (9 Oct 2014)
The Tsunami hits Monte Carlo, the Hobgoblin of Continuity, and Ideas to Reinvigorate the World Championship (7 Oct 2014)
Genius and Grace in Monte Carlo (7 Oct 2014)
LIA and Goldman Sachs Square off in Court (7 Oct 2014)
Is Misrata Beginning to Expand its Influence Beyond the Political Sphere? (4 Oct 2014)
Is France Preparing A Ground Invasion in Libya? (3 Oct 2014)
Ghadames to Host UNSMIL Brokered Talks (28 Sep 2014)
How to Give a Gammonish Recube (Slava vs. Lars Part II) (28 Sep 2014)
Al-Thinni’s New Cabinet Approved amid Preparations for Negotiation Talks (24 Sep 2014)
HoR Rejects Thinni’s Cabinet, Libya Dawn Tries to Restore Life in the Capital (21 Sep 2014)
Let the Scramble for Oil Money Begin (19 Sep 2014)
Is Operation Dignity Receiving Further Air Support from the UAE? (17 Sep 2014)
Why Scottish Independence is Bad for Libya (11 Sep 2014)
Libya: Stalemate or Calm before the (Return of the) Storm? (9 Sep 2014)
Is Libya the New Battleground for the Islamist-Nationalist Proxy War? (9 Sep 2014)
Thinni Given PM Mandate as Libya Dawn Tries to Put Facts on the Ground (2 Sep 2014)
Thinni Resigns Again, Tries to Breathe Life into HoR (29 Aug 2014)
Is the HoR Losing the Internal Battle for Legitimacy? (27 Aug 2014)
Latest Strikes Make Libya the New Proxy War in The Region (26 Aug 2014)
Is Operation Dawn Forces’s Tripoli Success The Beginning of the End or The Beginning of An Escalation In Conflict? (24 Aug 2014)
As HoR Continues its Work, Arab League Shuns Call for Foreign Intervention (21 Aug 2014)
Covert Intervention? Air Strike in Tripoli Sparks Anxiety Over Foreign Role in Libya (18 Aug 2014)
HoR Tries Raising its Profile by Pushing for Intervention and Disbandment of Militias (14 Aug 2014)
Toppling Qaddafi: Libya and the Limits of Liberal Intervention (14 Aug 2014)
Libya at a Turning Point? HoR Agrees to Direct Presidential Elections as Fighting Continues Unabated (13 Aug 2014)
Obama Discusses Libya With Thomas L. Friedman (11 Aug 2014)
The NYT on the Impact of the 2012 Benghazi Assault on US Strikes in Iraq (9 Aug 2014)
Despite Turmoil Libya’s Oil Production Remains Steady (8 Aug 2014)
Bernard-Henri Levy Urges The West to Act Before the Clock Strikes Midnight (8 Aug 2014)
Algeria and Egypt Defuse Intervention Talks as HoR Starts Its Works by Ordering Ceasefire (7 Aug 2014)
Elders Hope to Facilitate an Agreement in Cyrenaica As GNC President Dismisses HoR As ‘Unconstitutional’ (6 Aug 2014)
House of Representatives Postpones First Meeting Amid Violence and Displacements (3 Aug 2014)
Escalating Violence in Libya Necessitates International Mediation (1 Aug 2014)
Ansar Al-Sharia Claim Islamic Emirate in Benghazi (31 Jul 2014)
Libya on the Brink: How to Stop the Fighting (30 Jul 2014)
Libya Back in the Limelight, Will Actors on The Ground Capitalize from it? (30 Jul 2014)
No Eid Celebrations as Libya Descends into Chaos (29 Jul 2014)
Calls for Dialogue Fall on Deaf Ears as Militias Get Entrenched in Battle (27 Jul 2014)
Will the House of Representatives be nipped in the bud by ongoing violence? (25 Jul 2014)
Violence in the Capital Escalates as The Government Struggles to Sell Crude (25 Jul 2014)
Are the Parliamentary Elections a Precursor for More Violence? (23 Jul 2014)
As Fighting in the Captial Intensifies Zintanis Hold Airport (22 Jul 2014)
Are The Islamists as Organized as The Media Portrays Them to Be? (21 Jul 2014)
Islamist-Nationalist Rift Intensifies as Another Prominent Female Activist is Assassinated and Airport Workers Strike (17 Jul 2014)
Damage to the Airport and Aircrafts Are a Big Blow to a Weakened Business Sector (15 Jul 2014)
Is Tripoli Witnessing A Civil War between Misrata and Zintan or is this a minor clash between rogue brigades? (15 Jul 2014)
Despite Strikes in Brega, Ras Lanuf and Sidra Set to Open (14 Jul 2014)
Jadhran Hands over Port and Signs of Grand Bargain Emerging (4 Jul 2014)
The House of Representatives Election (26 Jun 2014)
Election Day Guide (25 Jun 2014)
Mary Fitzgerald’s Interview with Hiftar (24 Jun 2014)
Turks and Qataris Ordered to Leave Eastern Libya (23 Jun 2014)
Call for Part Time Consultants (21 Jun 2014)
Three Things to Watch for in the Libya Elections (21 Jun 2014)
Libya’s Faustian Bargains: The Hardcopy (12 Jun 2014)
Setting the Record Straight on the US’s role in Libya (10 Jun 2014)
Maiteg Accepts Supreme Court Decision and Resigns (10 Jun 2014)
Maetig Seizes Prime Ministry Building (3 Jun 2014)
Thinni Vows to Stay On (29 May 2014)
Ansar al-Sharia Mishandles the Media War (28 May 2014)
A Sober Evaluation of Hiftar’s Movement (If we can call it that) (23 May 2014)
The World According to Hiftar (23 May 2014)
“Leaders” of Libyan Army “Suspend” GNC (19 May 2014)
Game Theory, Kidnappings and the Pitfalls of Appeasement in Libya (17 May 2014)
Libya: Swinging Pendulums and Political Crematoria (16 May 2014)
Jordanian Ambassador Freed After Libya Kidnap (14 May 2014)
Libya’s Unexpected Strength (8 May 2014)
Ides of March Cambridge Invitational Tournament – March 2014 (8 May 2014)
Who’s for Prime Minister? (7 May 2014)
Jordan to Release Libyan Militant in Exchange for Ambassador (29 Apr 2014)
Invitation to Launching of Atlantic Council Report “Libya’s Faustian Bargains” (29 Apr 2014)
Libya Lifts Force Majeure on Second Oil Port (28 Apr 2014)
Rejoice and Export Crude, ya Libiyya (7 Apr 2014)
Libyan rebels and Government Agree to Gradually Reopen Occupied Oil Ports (7 Apr 2014)
Some April First Foolery Libyan Style (5 Apr 2014)
Libya Sees “Good Intentions” in Oil Port Talks; Rebel Split Seen (4 Apr 2014)
Jadhran’s Supporters Still Being Paid until November (2 Apr 2014)
Crimea as Europe’s Existential Question (28 Mar 2014)
Zeidan Speaks to Christian Amanpour (26 Mar 2014)
ENI Talks Gas with Libya, Shoring Up Non-Russian Supply (24 Mar 2014)
Lars Trabolt vs Vyachslav Pryadkin  in The WC Final — PART 1: Limiting Gammonish Volitility (24 Mar 2014)
Libya Leads World in Traffic Deaths Per Capita (20 Mar 2014)
Iraqi Insurgency Tactics Being Used by Jihadists in Libya (17 Mar 2014)
Sometimes It Is Tough Being a Pirate (17 Mar 2014)
Consensus Principle and Regional Development Budget Approved by Congress (13 Mar 2014)
Libya’s Prime Minister Ousted in Chaos Over Tanker (12 Mar 2014)
Libyan Oil Stolen at Sidra (9 Mar 2014)
The Future of Libya: Is ‘Pakistanisation’ a Foregone Conclusion? (8 Mar 2014)
An Absurd Connection between Ukraine and Libya (8 Mar 2014)
Possible Presidential Election? (6 Mar 2014)
GNC Members’ Cars Burned as Protestors Vandalise Congress (3 Mar 2014)
The Battle for Benghazi (1 Mar 2014)
Constitutional Committee Election Final Turnout Put at Half Million (24 Feb 2014)
45 Percent Turnout in Constitutional Committee Elections but 13 Seats Cannot be Declared (22 Feb 2014)
Too Cool for a Coup, Part Two (21 Feb 2014)
New Alignments between Zintan, GNC, Islamists and the Population (21 Feb 2014)
To Coup, Or Not to Coup? (16 Feb 2014)
Jadhran’s Brother to Be Returned to Libya after Arrest in UAE (13 Feb 2014)
Libya vs Western Bankers (13 Feb 2014)
Correcting the Course of Libya’s Revolution (Part 1/2) (12 Feb 2014)
Even Federalism Won’t Placate the Federalists (11 Feb 2014)
Zeidan’s Newly Proposed Cabinet has Been Rejected (11 Feb 2014)
Dunks and Dodging Bullets: Americans Chase Hoop Dreams in Libya (9 Feb 2014)
Protests Against the Extention of the GNC’s Mandate Passed Peacefully (8 Feb 2014)
The Feb 7 Extension of GNC issue (6 Feb 2014)
Libya PM Threatens Eastern Protesters with Troops (5 Feb 2014)
Is Jadhran’s Support Waning? (1 Feb 2014)
Libya: Date Set for Vote to Select Constitutional Panel (31 Jan 2014)
Madagascar’s Radio DJ President Jockeys for Power (28 Jan 2014)
Power Cut Misery to Continue Until Warshefana Clashes Resolved (28 Jan 2014)
Sebha Still Awaiting Military Support (28 Jan 2014)
Egyptian Embassy Staff ‘Seized’ in Libya (26 Jan 2014)
Libya Chaos Worsens (10 Jan 2014)
Killings of Briton and New Zealander Underscore Libya’s Security Breakdown (4 Jan 2014)
Anna Baldinetti looking for research assistant (3 Jan 2014)
Libya in 2014??? (31 Dec 2013)
Khattala with the Candlestick in the Diplomatic Mission (30 Dec 2013)
Happy Libyan Independence Day and Merry Christmas (24 Dec 2013)
Libya Probes Deadly Army Checkpoint Bombing (23 Dec 2013)

 




		©
						
			LibyaAnalysis.com  |  Site by Round Hex





