Missionaries in Philippines weather Typhoon Hagupit, ministering in wake of storm | AsiaStories
Missionaries in Philippines weather Typhoon Hagupit, ministering in wake of storm | AsiaStories









COMMISSIONSTORIES
AFRICA
AMERICAS
ASIA
EURASIA












Search for:






 
 
 
 
 




home
stories
photos
videos
interactives
connect
about















 
December 7, 2014
Missionaries in Philippines weather Typhoon Hagupit, ministering in wake of storm
By Susie Rain


Dec. 9 Update: The typhoon has passed through the Philippines. The missionaries thank you for your prayers. Halfway across the country, the typhoon was downgraded to a tropical storm. There was far less damage than expected. Story has been updated to reflect changes in information

	Waiting … It’s the hardest thing to do in the midst of a disaster but that’s exactly what IMB missionaries in the Philippines did as Typhoon Hagupit slowly slashes across the country Dec. 7.

While the missionaries were not in the direct path of the typhoon, almost all were on the outer edges and itching to get in and help. Last year’s super typhoon was fresh on their minds; after all, they all lived through it alongside their Filipino friends and neighbors.

	“Your Lottie Moon Christmas offering allows us as Southern Baptist missionaries to be able to live among our people so that we can be there to minister to the spiritual and physical needs here as life goes on normally,” Linda Dillworth, a 40-year veteran missionary from Georgia, said. “The moment the storm passes an area with one of our missionaries, they are out immediately checking people.”

	The storm first hit land Saturday night in east Samar, just north of where Texans Carl and Suzie Miller live. Once the wind and rain died down, the pair ventured out of their home to go check on churches and others ministries. For the last 13-months, they’ve worked side-by-side with their neighbors and Southern Baptist mission teams to rebuild the hardest hit area from Super Typhoon Haiyan.

	The original path of Hagupit charted the typhoon ripping a path through the newly rebuilt areas. Last year, more than 7,000 died and 200,000 were left homeless. More than 500,000 people moved to shelters in anticipation. Some Filipino believers even took shelter with the Millers.

	The Millers and others around the world posted on facebook, asking for prayers that the destructive storm would make a turn and weaken. These prayers were answered as the super storm not only turned north but was downgraded to a typhoon, the equivalent of a category 3 hurricane and eventually to just a tropical storm. Early indications showed the islands appear to have been spared vast devastation. The storm hit land six times over the weekend as it made a slow trek through the 7,000-island nation.





Because You Give |  IMB missionary Kim Cruse explains (via skype) the importance of your offering for their work in the Philippines, especially during Typhoon Hagupit.

		 

		The hardest hit area so far is just north of Tacloban where Baptists have a training center in a jungle area. The Millers plan to go check on it and the local pastors running the evangelism school as soon as roadways open. Cell phone towers are down, making communication next to impossible.

		“If it were not for your giving to the missions offering, they wouldn’t be able to do that,” Dillworth pointed out. “We are able to live and minister among the people like this simply because of your giving.”

		It was essentially a “waiting game” until the storm finally passed across the country. Assessments and estimates on damage are still hard to come by. Your missionaries, however, know one way that you can make an immediate impact … that’s through your continued prayer.


1. Pray for our IMB personnel across the Visayan Islands. They have been involved in disaster relief since the 2013 super typhoon which was followed by a 7.2 earthquake. Pray that they pace themselves in God’s unique role that He has for them in this area so they do not hit “disaster fatigue” with the overload of needs.

2. Praise God for the Filipino Christian community. Our brothers and sisters are sharing and ministering. They have learned that by meeting needs, you can also meet spiritual ones as well. After the last disaster, an area of Samar that is only 1% Christian saw rapid growth because of the Filipino church response. Pray for this type of opening and response again.

3. Pray for those that were in the path of the storm. Pray that food and medicine can make it the hardest hit areas as soon as its needed and life goes back to normal.


Pray Today |  Join IMB missionary Kim Cruse (via skype) as she prays for the Philippines and those affected by Typhoon Hagupit. It will pass over the rest of the country for another day.


		 



MORE from Typhoon Hagupit





Story: After the Storm
Typhoon Hagupit passed through the Philippines. Clean up begins. IMB missionaries say thank you for prayers, keep praying.









 
Comments






Typhoon Hagupit



Story: After the Storm



Typhoon Hagupit passed through the Philippines. Clean up begins. IMB missionaries say thank you for prayers, keep praying.




Story: Typhoon Hagupit



Your global missions offering helps IMB missionaries minister in the midst of Typhoon Hagupit. Give and Pray to help.






RECOMMENDED Links









MOST Popular



Story: Lottie Moon: 100 Years On



Story: Temple Prostitutes



Story: Know You By Name



Interactive: Church-planting Fire



Story: After the Storm





SUBSCRIBE to AsiaStories





Email Address






Facebook:



Twitter:

RSS:










FAMILY SITES:



imb.org
Africa Stories
Americas Stories
Asia Stories
Eurasia Stories




American Peoples
Central Asian Peoples
Deaf Peoples
East Asian Peoples
European Peoples




North African & Middle Eastern Peoples
South Asian Peoples
Southeast Asian Peoples
Sub-Saharan African Peoples







© Copyright 2008 - 2012 AsiaStories, a publication of the International Mission Board. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy | Contact Us



