Up to 700 migrants drown in Mediterranean as people smugglers accused of deliberately capsizing boat - Telegraph
Up to 700 migrants drown in Mediterranean as people smugglers accused of deliberately capsizing boat - Telegraph


























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Thursday 21 May 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




France
Francois Hollande
Germany
Angela Merkel
Russia
Vladimir Putin
Greece
Spain
Italy





Home»
News»
World News»
Europe»
Italy











Up to 700 migrants drown in Mediterranean as people smugglers accused of deliberately capsizing boat

More than 650 migrants are feared to have drowned in the Mediterranean in two 
  separate incidents, with humanitarian organisations calling for "legal 
  avenues" to be opened up to enable refugees to reach Europe safely 

















Migrants sit in an inflatible boat during one of the rescue operations off the coast of Sicily Photo: AFP









 






							By 
											Nick Squires, Rome

4:46PM BST 15 Sep 2014

Follow


 


 Up to 500 migrants were feared to have drowned in the Mediterranean after people smugglers deliberately rammed their boat, it was announced on Monday, as a second disaster claimed as many as 160 lives off the coast of Libya.  In the first tragedy, survivors of the sinking told officials from the International Organisation for Migration that around 500 people had been on a boat sailing from the coast of Egypt towards Malta last week and that most had drowned at sea.  The horrific story, which if confirmed would rank as the worst disaster in the Mediterranean for years, was recounted by two Palestinians who spent more than a day floating in the water before being picked up by a Panama-flagged merchant vessel about 300 miles off Malta.  They were brought to the port of Pozzallo in Sicily at the weekend, where they told their story to IoM officials.  Nine other survivors were rescued by Greek and Maltese rescue vessels. 
Related Articles



Terrible immigrant maritime accidents since 2003

15 Sep 2014



Hundreds feared dead after migrant boat heading for Italy capsizes

15 Sep 2014



Immigrants attempt Spain crossing using inflatable rafts

13 Aug 2014



Record number of migrants arriving in Italy and Spain as Madrid blames Morocco

13 Aug 2014



Calais' thousands of migrants waiting, hoping to get to Britain

08 Aug 2014



'Massacre' at sea: Italy arrests five over killings of more than 100 on migrant boat

23 Jul 2014



 The two Palestinians, believed to be fleeing Gaza, said the boat, packed with refugees and migrants from Syria, the Palestinian territories, Sudan and Egypt, set sail from the Egyptian coast on Sept 6.  The large group included small children and unaccompanied minors.  When the people traffickers in charge of the crossing ordered their human cargo to transfer to another, smaller boat in the middle of the sea, they refused.  A furious argument broke out and the traffickers in the smaller vessel allegedly rammed the migrants’ boat, forcing it to capsize.  "If this story, which the police are investigating, is confirmed, it would be the worst shipwreck in recent years. It is particularly grave, in that it seems to have been not an accident but mass murder, perpetrated by criminals without scruples or any respect for human life," IOM said in a statement.  Among the hundreds of migrants who drowned was a young Egyptian boy who had hoped to earn enough money in Europe to pay for his father's heart operation, the Palestinians said.  He clung to a life buoy along with one of the Palestinians but, suffering from exposure and hypothermia, was unable to hold on and slipped beneath the water.  In the second tragedy, more than 160 African migrants were feared dead on Monday after an overloaded boat heading for Italy capsized off the coast of Libya.  Libyan officials recovered dozens of bodies, including those of women and children, from the sea off the coast of Tajoura, to the east of the capital, Tripoli.  Just 36 people had been rescued, officials said, although the search effort was continuing.  The boat was believed to have been packed with more than 200 migrants who had paid people traffickers thousands of pounds to take them to Italy.  The two shipwrecks were the latest in a series of similar tragedies in the Mediterranean.  The wars in Iraq and Syria, poverty and unrest in the Horn of Africa and West Africa, and chaos in Libya since the overthrow of Muammar Gadaffi has spurred a massive exodus of refugees towards Europe.  Italy has saved more than 100,000 boat people since last October when it launched a humanitarian effort called Mare Nostrum (Our Sea) to intercept and rescue the migrants trying to reach the islands of Lampedusa and Sicily, the nearest landfall to North Africa.  Since 1988, more than 20,000 adults and children have lost their lives trying to reach Europe by sea, according to Fortress Europe, a website that tracks the fatalities.  Enticed by the prospect of making tens of thousands of pounds from each crossing, people smugglers were putting migrants in increasingly “decrepit and overcrowded boats, causing directly or indirectly the death of thousands of people,” the IOM said.  The organisation called on the international community to identify, catch and punish the traffickers, while at the same time depriving them of their livelihood by opening up “legal avenues” for people fleeing war and persecution to enter Europe.  The actress Angelina Jolie, who is a special envoy for the United Nations’ refugee agency, also urged the international community to "wake up to the scale of the crisis."  "There is a direct link between the conflicts in Syria and elsewhere and the rise in deaths at sea in the Mediterranean," she said.  "We have to understand what drives people to take the fearful step of risking their children's lives on crowded, unsafe vessels. It is the overwhelming desire to find refuge," she said. 











 






Italy





News »


World News »


Africa and Indian Ocean »


Libya News »


Europe »









In Italy






 


Mediterranean migrants crisis








 


Norman Atlantic ferry fire








 


In pics: George and Amal's Venice wedding








 


The drama of Italy's 'other' Palio








 


Costa Concordia leaves Giglio








 


Inside Costa Concordia



























Top news galleries





Kim Jong-un: His bizarre photoshoots




 




The bizarre photo opportunities of North Korea's leader Kim Jong-un.






Wags out in force - Premier League end-of-season awards




 




In pics: Manchester United and Liverpool players hit the red carpet 
  with their partners 


Comments






The world's scariest train rides




 




The world's scariest and most exhilarating train journeys, chosen by our rail 
  expert






Britain's oldest towns




 




The UK has heritage from top to toe, but nowhere more so than in these 10 towns


Comments






UK's Eurovision flops: Where are they now?




 


 Eurovision


In pics: Where are they now?








Rohingya migrants rescued




 




In pics: Hundreds of starving boat people rescued off Indonesia coast 






Celebrity Sightings




 




Featuring: Cara Delevingne, St Vincent and Mary J. Blige






Chelsea 2015: In pictures




 




The best pictures from the 2015 RHS Chelsea Flower Show 






Cannes 2015: in pictures




 


 Culture Picture Galleries


As the annual film festival kicks off, catch all of the celebrities and events 
  on the red carpet


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




In pics: A clouded leopard cub, a cheeky monkey and a scary clown 









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»







 


Bin Laden's draft broadcast published








 


Farage mocked as general election 'big loser'








 


Pitbulls go salmon fishing








 


How the US does Red Nose Day








 


Prince Charles visits scene of uncle's murder








 


Ancient sites destroyed by Isil - in 60 seconds



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 











News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Revealed: the world's cities most likely to be hit by a terror attack
BBC 'considered axing' Richard Hammond from Top Gear
Female kickboxer knocks out sex attacker who pounces as she walks home
Illegal migrant workers will have wages seized, vows David Cameron
North Korea 'photoshopped Kim Jong-un submarine missile pictures'




Stop your whingeing: why the Left are such bad losers
Parents warned against giving paracetamol and ibuprofen for mild fever
Nepal earthquake latest news: US helicopter 'still missing'
Six reasons superbugs will be worse than Aids
'World's most dangerous' theme park reopens in New Jersey




Kate and William: When will they announce princess's name? - live
Election 2015 results MAPPED: 2015 full list
Election 2015: Stability at the top as David Cameron keeps key Cabinet ministers in place - as it happened, May 8
Kate Middleton's royal baby Princess Charlotte: Everything we know
Princess Charlotte: Kate Middleton and Prince William name new royal baby - live
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 




































