Hundreds feared dead after migrant boat heading for Italy capsizes - Telegraph
Hundreds feared dead after migrant boat heading for Italy capsizes - Telegraph


























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Thursday 21 May 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
Africa and Indian Ocean»
Libya News











Hundreds feared dead after migrant boat heading for Italy capsizes

Dozens of bodies, including women and children, are recovered after a migrant 
  boat destined for Italy capsized of the coast of Libya 

















Migrants from Africa whose boat sank off the coast of Libya rest after being rescued by the Libyan coastguard  Photo: EPA









 






							By 
											Nick Squires, Rome

3:04PM BST 15 Sep 2014

Follow


 


 More than 160 African migrants were feared dead on Monday after an overloaded boat heading for Italy capsized off the coast of Libya.  Libyan officials recovered dozens of bodies, including those of women and children, from the sea off the coast of Tajoura, to the east of the capital, Tripoli.  Just 36 people had been rescued, officials said, although the search effort was continuing.  The boat was believed to have been packed with more than 200 migrants who had paid people traffickers thousands of pounds to take them to Italy.  “More than 160 people have lost their lives as a result of the sinking of the boat in Libyan waters,” said Colonel Ayub Qassim from the Libyan navy. 
Related Articles



Up to 700 migrants drown in Mediterranean as people smugglers accused of deliberately capsizing boat

15 Sep 2014



Immigrants attempt Spain crossing using inflatable rafts

13 Aug 2014



Record number of migrants arriving in Italy and Spain as Madrid blames Morocco

13 Aug 2014



Calais' thousands of migrants waiting, hoping to get to Britain

08 Aug 2014



'Massacre' at sea: Italy arrests five over killings of more than 100 on migrant boat

23 Jul 2014



$200 for a life jacket: refugees speak of class system on African boats bound for Europe

03 Jun 2014



 “The coast guard managed to save 36 people, three of whom are women, and they were immediately taken to hospital.” One of the women was reportedly pregnant.  The boat sank about 11 miles off the Libyan coast, in the latest of a series of similar tragedies in the Mediterranean.  The war in Syria, poverty and unrest in the Horn of Africa and West Africa, and chaos in Libya since the overthrow of Muammar Gadaffi has spurred a massive exodus of refugees towards Europe.  Italy has saved more than 100,000 boat people since last autumn, when it launched a humanitarian effort called Mare Nostrum (Our Sea) to intercept and rescue the migrants trying to reach the islands of Lampedusa and Sicily, the nearest landfall to North Africa.  So far this year more than 900 people have drowned trying to reach southern Italy, compared to 800 in 2013 and nearly 600 in 2012.  Since 1988, more than 20,000 adults and children have lost their lives trying to reach Europe by sea, according to Fortress Europe, a website that tracks the fatalities.  Italy has complained for years that it cannot deal with the crisis on its own.  The European Union has proposed providing ships, helicopters and fixed wing aircraft to help the Italians, but so far the additional resources have yet to be deployed.  Migrants also try to reach Italy and Greece from the Egyptian coast, although in smaller numbers.  On Sunday the Egyptian coast guard arrested 157 migrants of different nationalities, including Palestinians, as they were planning to cross to Italy in a rickety fishing boat. Women and children were among the migrants, who were in the process of boarding the boat headed in the port of Alexandria.  They had reportedly each paid human traffickers $3,500 (£2,200) for the journey. 











 






Libya News





News »


World News »


Italy »


Nick Squires »









In Libya News






 


Mediterranean migrants crisis








 


Libya clashes








 


Libya's Roman ruins from the air








 


How should I vote in the US election?








 


Anti-US protests spread








 


US embassy protests spread to Yemen



























Top news galleries





Kim Jong-un: His bizarre photoshoots




 




The bizarre photo opportunities of North Korea's leader Kim Jong-un.






Wags out in force - Premier League end-of-season awards




 




In pics: Manchester United and Liverpool players hit the red carpet 
  with their partners 


Comments






The world's scariest train rides




 




The world's scariest and most exhilarating train journeys, chosen by our rail 
  expert






Britain's oldest towns




 




The UK has heritage from top to toe, but nowhere more so than in these 10 towns


Comments






UK's Eurovision flops: Where are they now?




 


 Eurovision


In pics: Where are they now?








Rohingya migrants rescued




 




In pics: Hundreds of starving boat people rescued off Indonesia coast 






Celebrity Sightings




 




Featuring: Cara Delevingne, St Vincent and Mary J. Blige






Chelsea 2015: In pictures




 




The best pictures from the 2015 RHS Chelsea Flower Show 






Cannes 2015: in pictures




 


 Culture Picture Galleries


As the annual film festival kicks off, catch all of the celebrities and events 
  on the red carpet


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




In pics: A clouded leopard cub, a cheeky monkey and a scary clown 









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook






libya latest news»








Libya Pictures




Libya Video












Advertisement










Latest Video»







 


Bin Laden's draft broadcast published








 


Farage mocked as general election 'big loser'








 


Pitbulls go salmon fishing








 


How the US does Red Nose Day








 


Prince Charles visits scene of uncle's murder








 


Ancient sites destroyed by Isil - in 60 seconds



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement















News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Revealed: the world's cities most likely to be hit by a terror attack
BBC 'considered axing' Richard Hammond from Top Gear
Female kickboxer knocks out sex attacker who pounces as she walks home
Illegal migrant workers will have wages seized, vows David Cameron
North Korea 'photoshopped Kim Jong-un submarine missile pictures'




Stop your whingeing: why the Left are such bad losers
Parents warned against giving paracetamol and ibuprofen for mild fever
Nepal earthquake latest news: US helicopter 'still missing'
Six reasons superbugs will be worse than Aids
'World's most dangerous' theme park reopens in New Jersey




Kate and William: When will they announce princess's name? - live
Election 2015 results MAPPED: 2015 full list
Election 2015: Stability at the top as David Cameron keeps key Cabinet ministers in place - as it happened, May 8
Kate Middleton's royal baby Princess Charlotte: Everything we know
Princess Charlotte: Kate Middleton and Prince William name new royal baby - live
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 




































