August | 2014 | Libya Analysis
August | 2014 | Libya Analysis

Libya AnalysisHome
Consulting

Consulting Services
Mission
Clients
Team


Pack’s Publications

Op Eds
Scholarly Book Reviews
Peer Review Publications
Media Appearances
The 2011 Libyan Uprisings: The Book
Backgammon Articles


CV
Public Lectures
About Jason Pack
Contact
Viewing posts from: August, 2014




Categories 
Adventure (13)

Africa (5)

Backgammon Articles (10)

Bespoke Products (1)

Blog Posts (87)

Egypt (30)

Featured Posts (95)

Federalism (77)

GNC (140)

House of Commons Briefings (6)

House of Representatives (52)

ICC (6)

Intervention (129)

Iran (5)

Kurdistan (KRG) (6)

Libyan Army/Militias (225)

Libyan Business/Investment (93)

Libyan Elections (106)

Maghreb (7)

Negotiations (11)

News (313)

Oil (65)

Pack's Publications (167)

Forthcoming Book (19)

Media Appearances (43)

Op Eds (84)

Peer Review Publications (5)

Scholarly Book Reviews (9)



ports (31)

Qaddafi (35)

Salafis (49)

Syria (13)

Terrorism (43)

Tuareg (5)

Tunisia (6)

UK Politics (2)

US Politics (63)

USLBA (4)

Wine (1)


Featured Posts Show All
Archives 
May 2015 (3)
April 2015 (13)
March 2015 (10)
February 2015 (15)
January 2015 (12)
December 2014 (8)
November 2014 (11)
October 2014 (15)
September 2014 (10)
August 2014 (17)
July 2014 (15)
June 2014 (10)
May 2014 (11)
April 2014 (8)
March 2014 (15)
February 2014 (15)
January 2014 (8)
December 2013 (11)
November 2013 (8)
October 2013 (12)
September 2013 (7)
August 2013 (6)
July 2013 (6)
June 2013 (10)
May 2013 (10)
April 2013 (8)
March 2013 (5)
February 2013 (9)
January 2013 (14)
December 2012 (5)
November 2012 (7)
October 2012 (14)
September 2012 (10)
August 2012 (8)
July 2012 (13)
June 2012 (20)
May 2012 (4)
April 2012 (3)
March 2012 (5)
February 2012 (4)
January 2012 (2)
December 2011 (4)
November 2011 (4)
October 2011 (9)
September 2011 (7)
August 2011 (2)
June 2011 (1)
April 2011 (2)
March 2011 (1)
February 2011 (1)



29Aug2014 			Thinni Resigns Again, Tries to Breathe Life into HoR		
In a bid to bring new energies and a fresh allure to the HoR camp, Caretaker Prime Minister Abdullah Thinni has resigned from his post along with all the members of his government. The decision came hours after news emerged about the possible resignation of six ministers from his government.
In his final statement, the caretaker government reiterated the status of the HoR as the sole legitimate institution inside the country, alongside the Constitutional Assembly, and framed its resignation as a move designed to allow the election of a new government. The HoR has already shortlisted five candidates for the Prime Minister Office: outgoing PM Thinni, Ashur Shuwail, Omar Abassi, Ali Al-Tikbali and the Libyan Ambassador to the UAE Aref Al-Nayed; the Libya Herald put together a brief backgrounder on each of them. Meanwhile, in Tripoli, GNC-appointed Prime Minister al-Hassi is said to have selected seven ministers for his own government, including GNC President Abu Sahmain.
Thinni’s resignation should be seen in the context of the increasing internal pressure the HoR is facing, due to the recent military developments which gave the Misratan/GNC camp the upper hand in the ongoing confrontation. In this sense, the presence of Thinni among shortlisted candidates for the PM position should be seen as a proof that his resignation does not mark a fracture between him and the HoR, but rather an attempt to salvage the internal standing of this institution by speeding up the election of the new government.
An increased sense of urgency with regards to the ongoing Libyan political crisis can also be perceived through the statement issued by the EU, which openly rejects the GNC and its government, labeling them as illegitimate, and through the call issued by France for the UN to provide ‘exceptional support’ to Libya and its transition process. At this stage, it seems that all actors outside of the Misratan camp are working against the potential consolidation of two rival and equally non-representative political centers of power. However, it will now be up to the HoR to select an inclusive government, capable of acting and being perceived as a national salvation one, so as to avoid the further consolidation of factors potentially leading up to a widespread civil war or to a deepened socio-political fragmentation of the country.


27Aug2014 			Is the HoR Losing the Internal Battle for Legitimacy?		
While the military front has been quiet during the past few hours, after Misratan-led forces established their control over Tripoli and its airport, the Libyan high politics scene has been ripe with developments. In particular, after re-conveying in Tripoli, the GNC has given mandate to Omar al-Hassi to form a National Salvation Government and invited all parties interested in re-vamping the democratic transition process and re-establishing constitutional legitimacy in the country to support it.  Additionally, during the past few hours, six ministers from the Thinni government have resigned, citing governmental bias in tackling the ongoing national crisis as well as the adoption of governmental resolutions without consulting relevant ministers as the basis for their decision. These developments could spell disaster for the HoR and the caretaker government of Prime Minister Thinni. Their standing was already marred by the self-imposed re-location to Tobruk’s safe but isolated location, by the inability to achieve meaningful developments in pacifying the country and by the explicit calls made for foreign military intervention. However, now that the state’s capital city is firmly under the control of the Misratan/GNC camp, they run the risk of losing any real internal political legitimacy in the eyes of large swaths of the population which had not taken a side yet in the dispute between rival chambers. The HoR of course will not go down without a fight and has appointed a new spokesperson to bring forth its narrative. A detailed summary of most recent events can be found on the  Middle East Eye.
At the international level, the UN Security Council officially weighed in on the Libyan crisis, approving a resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire and promising sanctions for those that will not comply with it. The US, UK, France, Germany and Italy have also urged all parties involved to pursue a political solution based on dialogue, further condemning recent foreign strikes on Tripoli and describing them as a source of further exacerbation between parties. Furthermore, whilst Egypt has been quick in re-buffing accusations of covert military intervention in Libya, Tunisia came out strongly against the possibility of foreign military intervention and reports have emerged of Algeria hosting former GNC President Nouri Abusahmain for talks aimed at ending the ongoing crisis.
Lastly, it is worth heading to Reuters Africa for a very interesting piece focusing on the economic and financial status of Libya. In this regards, recent positive developments in the oil production sector, which has been delivering up to 650,000 barrels per day during the past few weeks, should be taken cautiously since military and political developments on the ground could easily reverse the production trend witnessed since July. Furthermore, the state budget deficit and the burden of destroyed infrastructures will make managing Libya an uphill task for whichever side will gain the upper-hand in the long run, as evidenced by quotes reported in the article:
Even if oil exports continue to flow, Libya will still post a historic budget deficit of 70 percent unless output rises to 1.6 million bpd at a price of $100 per barrel, said Husni Bey, who heads one of the of country’s largest private conglomerates. Parliament in June approved a budget worth $49 billion, assuming annual production of 600,000 bpd. But output has lingered around 100,000 bpd.
Libya does not publish oil export figures but needs up to 140,000 bpd of its production for domestic refineries. Bey said the budget crisis is exacerbated by demands to cover infrastructure damages exceeding 10 billion dinars, after the airport terminal, much of the civilian air fleet and fuel storage tanks were destroyed during more than a month of fighting in Tripoli. The government needed to use up yet more foreign currency reserves and start issuing Islamic bonds to local banks, he said.


26Aug2014 			Latest Strikes Make Libya the New Proxy War in The Region		
Jason Pack of Libya-analysis.com recently took part in an interesting discussion on Aljazeera’s Inside Story. Jason touched on three important themes that have surfaced in the Islamist/Non-Islamist most recent episode: the bifurcation of Libya, foreign intervention and the proxy war that Libya has become.
In a very informative piece in the New York Times, David Kirkpatrick and Eric Schmidt disclosed that American officials said the Egyptians and the Emiratis had teamed up against Islamist target in Libya at least once before this week. Teams of “special forces” operating out of Egypt but possibly composed primarily of Emiratis had also successfully destroyed an Islamist camp near the eastern Libyan city of Derna, an extremist stronghold. The officials brought to attention that the United Arab Emirates boasts one of the most effective air forces in the Arab world, made up of American equipment and training, provided the pilots, warplanes and aerial refueling planes necessary for the fighters to bomb Tripoli out of bases in Egypt. The two authors suggest that the agenda of the Egypt and Saudi Arabia is fairly obvious:
The strikes in Tripoli are another salvo in a power struggle defined by Arab autocrats battling Islamist movements seeking to overturn the old order. Since the military ouster of the Islamist president in Egypt last year, the new government and its backers in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have launched a campaign across the region — in the news media, in politics and diplomacy, and by arming local proxies — to roll back what they see as an existential threat to their authority posed by Islamist groups like the Muslim Brotherhood.


24Aug2014 			Is Operation Dawn Forces’s Tripoli Success The Beginning of the End or The Beginning of An Escalation In Conflict?		
Operation Dawn Forces have taken a series of major Zintani strongholds in Tripoli and appear to be in control of the capital. According to sources close to both militias, Misratans now controls Naqlia Camp, have entered the passenger terminal at the International Airport and are within the perimeter of the Islamic Da’wa Centre and are soon to take 7th April camp, which is reported to have been abandoned by the Zintani forces that occupied it hitherto.
These gains are likely to be answered by further airstrikes from Operation Libyan Dignity tonight.  If the Misratans are able to withstand them and hold their gains from today, a Revolutionary Council will likely be established in Tripoli next week, which will become the focal point for the city’s administrative affairs. Operation Dawn have expressed their interest in dismissing the House of Representatives and reinstating the General National Congress instead.
It seems unlikely that this military victory will spell an end to conflict in Tripoli. In addition to the reaction of the nationalist factions, it will be interesting to see how Libya’s neighbours and western allies react. Most international parties have taken a neutral stance on the conflict, but have quietly backed one of the two sides as part of a larger regional proxy war in the region between Islamists and Nationalists. Western nations will likely condemn Operation Dawn’s intention of reinstating the GNC, as it sets a dangerous precedent for Democracy in the region.


21Aug2014 			As HoR Continues its Work, Arab League Shuns Call for Foreign Intervention		
As speculations abound over the airstrike of Monday in Tripoli, the House of Representatives has re-gathered in Tobruk to address the issues of forming a new caretaker government and discussing the position of Army’s Chief of Staff Obeidi. At the same time, the HoR had to register critiques coming from Arab League officials with regards to its request for foreign intervention, these remarks will hardly help the HoR achieving a much-needed breakthrough in its bid for gathering external help from Western and NATO countries who had previously intervened in 2011.
Nonetheless, with regards to this, it is worth reporting a passage from an article published for Al-Monitor by Mustafa Fetouri  who highlighted the crucial dimension that any solution to the current Libyan crisis must have:
Whether the call for intervention finds any response or not, and whether it actually does happen, is another matter. What is certain, though, is that the complex Libyan situation will remain a largely internal issue requiring Libyans to come to their senses and sit together to claim back their country.
Unfortunately, if media and PR wars are an indication of where national dialogue is headed, signs are not encouraging but rather point towards heightened social tension. Tuesday, a Libyan official confirmed that the government had requested from NileSat to shut down the broadcasting of Islamist leaning and HoR-opposing “Libya al-Wataniya” and “Libya al-Ramia” channels. Furthermore, on Wednesday, unconfirmed rumors of Sudanese pro-Ansar al-Shari’a mercenaries gathering in Kufra emerged, evoking a narrative reminiscent of rumors regarding dark-skinned mercenaries flocking to Qadhafi’s side in early 2011.
On the other hand, despite dire political and security developments, Libya’s oil sector continues to slowly boost its production levels. In particular, yesterday a tanker loaded oil in Libya’s port of Es-Sider for the first time in a year. Es-Sider has a loading capacity of 340.000 barrels per day which will add to current production levels that have been consistently hitting the 500.000bpd mark during the month of July. Furthermore, ENI has just spudded a new exploration offshore well. Unfortunately for Libya, however, its oil production is back on a sluggish market that registered not only a drop in the current price for crude oil, but also a negative revision of the expected growth in general oil demand for this year. Market difficulties reflect particularly heavily on Libya’s ability to sell its crude since most of its oil exports are directed towards the Eurozone area, and Italy in particular, whose economies are still marred by the crippling effects of the financial crisis.


18Aug2014 			Covert Intervention? Air Strike in Tripoli Sparks Anxiety Over Foreign Role in Libya		
During the night between Sunday and Monday, Tripoli witnessed a targeted airstrike on positions and arsenals belonging to forces of the so called “Operation Dawn” led by Misratan militias. Several reports indicate that targets were hit with laser guided bombs delivered from an altitude of 7-8 Km, making this an operation well beyond the capabilities of what is left of Libya’s Air Forces. Furthermore, airplanes belonging to General Haftar could have not carried out such operation due to the necessity to re-fuel midway between their bases in eastern Libya and the targets in Tripoli, something beyond their operational capability.
The state of confusion and anxiety sparked by the over night attack is well captured by an article on the National Post by Maamoun Youssef:

In a statement, the government demanded the chief of staff and military intelligence to investigate the predawn strikes Monday morning targeting positions of militias originally from the coastal city of Misrata and its Islamist allies.
The strikes, under the cover of darkness, sparked fears that a foreign country like Italy carried out the attack, as the Libyan military does not have aircraft that can fly at night, according to a former colonel in the Libyan air force. Libya’s newly elected parliament recently asked the United Nations to protect its civilians and stop the fighting. Italy’s ambassador to Libya even went on local television to say his country was not involved.

Later during the day, Haftar forces have claimed responsibility for the attack, describing it as an operation carried out with the support of unspecified international partners.
Whilst the House of Representatives is planning its work for the week ahead, this news is likely to further invigorate the zero-sum logic driving both Operation Dignity and Operation Dawn forces. In particular, despite mediation efforts being carried out by UN and EU delegations in the city of Misrata following on the appointment of a new UN Special Envoy for Libya, Misratan forces might feel pressured into a corner by both internal and external forces and decide to further escalate confrontation. In this sense, even emerging rumors of joint combat exercises to be carried out by air forces of the “5+5 Defence Initiative” countries, in preparation for potential attacks coming from Libya, are likely to stir up even more tension in the Islamist camp.


14Aug2014 			HoR Tries Raising its Profile by Pushing for Intervention and Disbandment of Militias		
As expected by analysts and observers of Libyan affairs, the House of Representatives passed on Wednesday two important resolutions aimed at tackling the security crisis crippling the country. In its first resolution, the HoR called for the UN Security Council to intervene in Libya so as to protect civilians and institutions currently put at risk by internal fights between factions that are increasingly coalescing in national level blocks and jeopardizing the political transition. The resolution was approved by 111 out of the 124 representatives attending the meeting. In its wording, however, the resolution does not provide details of what means the HoR expects the UN to adopt in its intervention, making it unlikely that a full blown military intervention will actually take place without a clear mandate coming from within the country. This notion is further reinforced by the statement issued yesterday by the UNSMIL mission which calls for a political solution to the crisis rather than a military imposed one. Support for UNSMIL and its approach towards Libya were also reiterated by the US, Italian, French and German governments last night through a joint statement.
Through a second resolution, the HoR ordered the disbandment of all existing militias and removed financial benefits previously allocated for those recognised by the State. The resolution (No. 7/2014), adopted by 102 out of the 104 representatives present, calls for all armed groups to either join the National Armed Forces or disband by 31st December 2014. After adopting these resolutions, the HoR decided to adjourn itself until next Sunday as per request of several of its members who noted that the institution has effectively been working non-stop for the past two weeks, a situation that explains the limited number of representatives attending yesterday’s last vote.
The adoption of these long-awaited resolutions, tackling the security situation in general and the current violence in Tripoli and Benghazi in particular, clearly raises the stakes for the HoR. At this stage, the internal standing and legitimacy of this body will be profoundly affected by its ability to garner effective external support for halting ongoing fights and by its ability to appoint a new government capable of enforcing the disbandment of militias and establishing a coherent and functional security apparatus. This is particularly true since camps and forces opposing the HoR on the ground of its ‘unofficial’ gathering in Tobruk are maintaining their narrative alive so as to possibly capitalise from it when popular discontent or disappointment with the HoR might soar as they did in the past with the GNC.


14Aug2014 			Toppling Qaddafi: Libya and the Limits of Liberal Intervention		
Review of Toppling Qaddafi: Libya and the limits of liberal intervention. by Christopher Chivvis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 2013. 249pp. Index. £20.00. isbn 978 1 10761 386 7. Available as e-book.
And The Syria dilemma. Edited by Nader Hashemi and Danny Postel. Boston: Boston Review Books. 2013. 285pp. Pb.: £8.00. isbn 978 0 26202 683 3. Available as e-book.
By Jason Pack in International Affairs published by Chatham House, July, 2014, Review available to read by clicking here.


13Aug2014 			Libya at a Turning Point? HoR Agrees to Direct Presidential Elections as Fighting Continues Unabated		
In a recent episode of ‘Inside Story’ broadcasted by Al Jazeera, Professor George Joffe from the University of Cambridge made the point that ongoing confrontations in Libya represent a major turning point for the country. This is especially true for warring militias that see current events as their last chance to carve up spheres of influence in the country’s economic and political landscapes before the House of Representatives sets out to cancel financial benefits that were previously allocated for them by state institutions. In light of this, it was argued, the international community should stand with all its weight behind Libya’s political institutions and sustain their long term development and role in the country.
With regards to political institutions, during the past few days, the House of Representatives has been going through a series of hearings with State officials at various levels so as to grasp a better understanding of the situation on the ground and of the positions held by relevant actors throughout these months. Among others, Caretaker Prime Minister Abdullah Thinni, Libya’s Army Chief of Staff Abdussalam Jadallah Al-Obeidi and Saiqa Special Forces Commander Wanis Bu Khamada appeared in front of elected representatives. Today instead, the HoR agreed with an overwhelming majority for Libya’s next President to be elected through popular vote, a position that has always been unpopular with the Islamist camp and that will likely increase the antagonism expressed by it towards the HoR, a body Islamist forces already charged with illegitimacy before. Nonetheless, no election date has been set as of yet as the HoR aims to obtain a clearer picture of the current security situation before doing so.
Political developments notwithstanding, clashes continue unabated throughout Libya, a reminder of both the dramatic lack of institutional capability in the country and the inability of any side to prevail militarily. Despite clear orders emanated by the Army Chief of Staff to comply with the HoR ceasefire decision, shelling and targeted assassinations have resumed in Tripoli. As a results, it is now estimated that the number of internally displaced families has topped the 7,000 mark, not to mention the continuous shrinkage of expat communities in the country which has a strong impact on the delivery of aid and assistance work. In the East, after forces from the Shoura Council of Benghazi’s Revolutionaries seemed to have gained the upper hand during last week’s fights for the city, reports emerged that Saiqa troops made their way back into certain parts of town, while air forces belonging to Haftar’s Operation Dignity expanded their field of action to Derna’s port after having repeatedly threatened to shut down Benghazi’s port and attack any ship directed towards it, so far an empty threat.
Finally, to focus on the regional dimension of the crisis, it is worth heading to Al-Monitor to read a translation of a piece written by Nadia B’chir for Business News. This article does a good job of presenting the structural and political differences between 2011 and today from the point of view of Tunisia, highlighting the consequences that this would have in case of a further escalation in the current Libyan crisis:

As the security situation reaches its peak, Tunisia is confronted with the difficult task of managing the massive influx of Libyan, Egyptian and Jordanian refugees fleeing Libya. The number of people registered at the Ras Jedir border crossing ranges between 5,000 and 6,000 people per day. Commenting on the figures at a press conference on the deteriorating situation in Libya, Tunisia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Mongi Hamdi said the influx was “normal” so far, and far from the figures registered in 2011. At that time, more than 500,000 people fled to Tunisia. The minister asserted that the 2011 scenario could not be reproduced. The country’s current situation can in no way allow it to happen, due to a difficult economic climate coupled with a vulnerable security situation caused by the spread of terrorism. The national army, which is currently weak and which, in 2011, gave full support to customs and border officers, is focused on the fight against terrorism. The country’s national interest takes priority over solidarity and compassion, despite those things being heavily present. In this regard, Mongi Hamdi explained that given the precarious economic situation in Tunisia and the large numbers of Libyans in the territory (estimated to be over one million), the country can no longer accommodate additional refugees. He did not rule out the possibility of closing the Tunisian-Libyan border if the influx of refugees intensifies.
He stressed that, in such an event, the borders would only be open to Tunisian nationals, whose number was estimated at 80,000, as well as to individuals who had special cases. Regarding refugees coming from Egypt and Jordan, Mongi Hamdi clearly stated that they would be allowed to cross the Tunisian-Libyan border provided they present a flight ticket from the Djerba airport certifying their repatriation, or that their country of origin agrees to send a plane to repatriate them.



11Aug2014 			Obama Discusses Libya With Thomas L. Friedman		
In an interesting Op-ed this week, Thomas L. Friedman discusses a broad range of foreign policy decisions that United States President Barack Obama implemented during his presidency. The president reflects on the short comings of the NATO-led Libyan Operations that ousted Colonel Qaddafi, where his “hands-off” foreign policy may not have the best solution for Libya:
“I’ll give you an example of a lesson I had to learn that still has ramifications to this day, and that is our participation in the coalition that overthrew Qaddafi in Libya. I absolutely believed that it was the right thing to do. … Had we not intervened, it’s likely that Libya would be Syria. … And so there would be more death, more disruption, more destruction. But what is also true is that I think we [and] our European partners underestimated the need to come in full force if you’re going to do this. Then it’s the day after Qaddafi is gone, when everybody is feeling good and everybody is holding up posters saying, ‘Thank you, America.’ At that moment, there has to be a much more aggressive effort to rebuild societies that didn’t have any civic traditions. … So that’s a lesson that I now apply every time I ask the question, ‘Should we intervene, militarily? Do we have an answer [for] the day after?’ ”
It is noteworthy to mention that the president reiterated his intention of extending his hand to communities in the Middle East that apply the principle of “No Victor/No Vanquished”. This proclamation would confirm that the current U.S. administration has no intention of  picking sides in the latest Islamist-Nationalist spat.


09Aug2014 			The NYT on the Impact of the 2012 Benghazi Assault on US Strikes in Iraq		
Even though almost two years have passed, the memory of the events of the 2012 assault on the US Consulate in Benghazi still looms large over the White House. In a very interesting piece on today’s New York Times, Mark Landler, Alissa J. Rubin, Mark Mazzetti and Helene Cooper present a detailed account of the lead-up to the decision taken by President Obama to authorize limited airstrikes on IS militants in Iraq as well as the delivery of humanitarian aid to the displaced population of Northern Iraq. The authors make an explicit reference to the weight that the events occurred in 2012 in Libya and the death of Ambassador Christopher Stevens had on the decision making process:

With American diplomats and business people in Erbil suddenly at risk, at the American Consulate and elsewhere, Mr. Obama began a series of intensive deliberations that resulted, only a day later, in his authorizing airstrikes on the militants, as well as humanitarian airdrops of food and water to the besieged Iraqis.
Looming over that discussion, and the decision to return the United States to a war Mr. Obama had built his political career disparaging, was the specter of an earlier tragedy: the September 2012 attack on the diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya, which killed four Americans, including Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, and has become a potent symbol of weakness for critics of the president.

Clearly, the current administration does not want to run the risk of being seen as leaving behind US personnel and interests due its hands-off regional approach. On the other hand, it is too early to tell if these strikes will mark the first step towards a lasting change in the regional policy approach and if a similar stance will be taken with regards to Libya and the encroachment of Jihadist forces in the eastern part of the country.


08Aug2014 			Despite Turmoil Libya’s Oil Production Remains Steady		
Despite the ongoing turmoil marring the country, Libya oil’s production remains steady following the rebound in productivity levels witnessed after last month’s reopening of the Ras Lanouf and Al-Sidra ports and of the Sharara oil field. As confirmed by the Monthly Oil Market Report released today by the OPEC, during the past month Libya’s oil production consistently broke the 500,000 barrels a day mark for the first time since last January, bringing much needed relief to the country’s economy. Nonetheless, the oil sector has still a long way to go before reaching pre-war or late 2012 production levels. Reuters Graphic put together a very clear infographic highlighting this and documenting the fluctuating levels of Libya’s oil productivity during the post-Qadhafi years.
Furthermore, even though oil infrastructures have been spared by rival militias during ongoing clashes, it is still to early to breath a sigh of relief. As the events of Tripoli’s airport have demonstrated, zero-sum logic and the desire to undercut opponents’ sources of income might lead rivaling factions to engulf oil infrastructures in military clashes. This should be taken into consideration especially now, with reports indicating that Zawiya’s oil port is a mere 20km away from clashes, the need to implement a stable ceasefire deal and to launch a national dialogue aiming to mend fractures in the country’s socio-political landscape is more pressing than ever.
Laslty, David Samuels on Bloomberg Bussinesweek wrote a very interesting piece documenting the attempts made in the past years at tracking Libya’s assets stashed abroad during Qadhafi’s rule and how this process led to further squandering of identified funds for short-term political gains:

When asked to provide an example of how this scam works, Hamroush says Ireland has $2 billion in Libyan assets. She knows the exact sum, she says, because Irish officials made a point of telling her how much money they had and where it was located. She took the information to Mustafa Jalil, head of the National Transitional Council, at which point at least one group of asset hunters applied to receive 10 percent of the total, she says. “Somebody in the NTC is either a complete idiot or an evil genius,” she concludes. “Money is being squandered everywhere like mad.”
Giveaways to individuals and militias from Libyan state coffers during her time in office from November 2011 to August 2012 amounted to $20 billion, according to her own estimate. In addition, the government, to buy loyalty, pays 40 percent of the adult population a salary at a cost of about $6 billion a month. While that figure could have easily been covered by oil revenue during Qaddafi’s time, the country’s production is now less than a quarter of what it was. Today, the practice of loading up the budget with public salaries in order to buy public loyalty has continued—but with a difference. “Now there are two or three times as many salaries as before,” Hamroush says, and they are being paid out of the state’s foreign reserves. At the rate that they are being used, the reserves will be entirely depleted in two years.



08Aug2014 			Bernard-Henri Levy Urges The West to Act Before the Clock Strikes Midnight		
In an article from the New Statesman, Bernard-Henri Levy points out that the collapse of the Libyan state is a result of very little action in the realm of state building. Levy suggests that foreign powers should have provided assistance in training a police force, constructing a program of disarmament and reintegration of the former combatants and a Libyan national school of public administration. Although the situation is deteriorating quickly, Levy does point out that the fact that it is not too late to act, and that Libya is by no means a country filled with extremists:
The reality is that an international force mandated by the United Nations would be welcomed with open arms and would have little trouble taming the death squads that presently sow so much terror while being so wholly unrepresentative of today’s Libya.
The country has held two free elections since the fall of Gaddafi. Both elections were clear-cut defeats for the Islamists. The first brought to power for sixteen months the most democratic and pro-western leader that the Arab world has produced in a long while: Ali Zeidan. The second, held 25 June, saw only 30 Islamists elected to the 188-seat legislature that has just convened in Tobruk despite calls for a boycott by the jihadist minority.


07Aug2014 			Algeria and Egypt Defuse Intervention Talks as HoR Starts Its Works by Ordering Ceasefire		
After gathering for its first official meeting on Monday, the House of Representatives set out to elect its President and Deputies during the past days. Participating representatives elected as President the independent lawyer Ageela Issa from Guba, who narrowly defeated initial frontrunner Abubakr Bahira during the second round of votes. Afterwards, the HoR selected Imhemed Shaib from Zawia as First Deputy Vice President and Ahmed Huma as Second Deputy. Today, the HoR got off to more substantive work. In particular, MP Ziad Daghim announced that the HoR stripped former GNC President Nuri Abu Sahmain of his role as Commander of Armed Forces and ordered for an unconditional ceasefire to be implemented under the monitoring of the UN in Tripoli and Benghazi within twenty four hours.
It remains to be seen how forces on the ground will receive this order, particularly in light of reports emerged today that Algeria has been recently asked to lead a military intervention in Libya, under the blessings of a UN and Arab League sanctioned mandate, which might be seen as a (failed) strong attempt to rein in all militias, and undercut their means and power bases, on behalf of national political institutions. Nonetheless, Algeria allegedly refused to intervene outside of its borders on the ground of the defensive role of its armed forces. A similar argument has been raised by Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry to justify his country’s current stand which seems to be in contradiction with the increasing internal preoccupation expressed for developments occurring in Eastern Libya. A joint statement issued last night by the US, Algerian, Moroccan, Tunisian and Libyan Governments further confirmed the reluctance of regional countries to get militarily involved into Libya, even though in the past days talks of intervention have gained ground among external observers.
Finally, as mentioned yesterday, whilst international support for the HoR is strong, internal factions have taken diametrically different positions with regards to its role and legitimacy, and the situation for some HoR members and politicians appears to be still fluid. Most importantly, reports have emerged that a demonstration has been held in Misrata, calling the relocation and transfer of power procedure held in Tobruk an attempted coup against the 2011 Revolution. Furthermore, Benghazi continued to slip into the hands of the Shoura Council of Benghazi Rebels – the umbrella coalition representing various Islamist leaning groups opposed to Saiqa and Haftar forces – that announced new significant territorial gains despite an alleged ceasefire in place in the city.


06Aug2014 			Elders Hope to Facilitate an Agreement in Cyrenaica As GNC President Dismisses HoR As ‘Unconstitutional’		
Some positive developments have taking place in the Eastern province of Cyrenaica over the last couple of days. According to a group of elders in Benghazi, calling themselves a Senate of Tribal Chiefs and Notables, negotiations with both the Benghazi Shoura Council and the Operation Dignity forces are taking place in order to ensure the violence that has struck Benghazi in recent days stops permanently. Apart from some explosions on the Airport Road at around midnight last night, the city has been relatively quiet since Sunday. Some key conditions of the ceasefire include laying down all arms and recognizing the legitimacy of Parliament (the House of Representatives) and submit ting to its authority.
In a joint statement on Monday, the French, Italian, German, UK and US governments called on the new House of Representatives to be inclusive in its work. They said that the house of representatives has the blessing of the international community and would back this new institution until the hopes and aspirations of Libyans were achieved. In retaliation, the president of the former General National Congress Nuri Abu Sahmain and the Grand Mufti, Sheikh Sadik Al-Ghariani, have said that the new House of Representatives is unconstitutional. However, with the legitimacy of the new House internationally and nationally accepted, the arguments advanced by Abu Sahmain and Ghariani are not seen as carrying much weight in the country and may well undermine their own credibility. Reconciliation between the Islamist and Anti-Islamist camps will be key for any lasting peace to take place in the capital. For residents in the capital, even without the dangers of random missiles landing, life has become intolerable. In many places, limited supplies and vast queues at bakers are the now the norm.
It will be interesting to see if military intervention becomes a possibility on the ground. Former UK ambassador to Libya, Sir Richard Dalton, has said the UK and other EU states could send in troops if the authorities request reinforcements. Dalton suggested that the U.K should conduct the necessary preparation now in case that mediation should be successful and Libyan leaders generally request some form of reinforcement for their own embryonic forces.


03Aug2014 			House of Representatives Postpones First Meeting Amid Violence and Displacements		
With the battle for Tripoli’s Airport entering its third week and Benghazi witnessing significant advances from the Islamist side, foreign governments are scrambling to evacuate their citizens and diplomatic missions from Libya, with the British Embassy representing the latest in a long series of closures. The situation at the border crossing of Ras Ajdair remains tense, with efforts being made by Tunisian and Libyan authorities to facilitate a quick solution to the ongoing crisis and the transfer of stranded workers, especially Egyptians. Those who succeed in fleeing the country describe the current situation as being far worse than that witnessed at any point during the Revolution, due also to the use of indiscriminate shelling that is causing an increasingly large number of internally displaced people.
Meanwhile, the House of Representatives postponed until Monday its inaugural meeting. The decision came after an informal gathering held in Tobruk on Saturday that saw the participation of 152 of the houses nominal 200 members. However, it is important to stress that while a substantial number of elected representatives attended this meeting, reports indicate that no Misratans were present. As Libyans are hoping for the House of Representatives to quickly establish a government capable of bringing violence to a halt, the decision to boycott its meetings by members elected in Misrata could prove to be the final straw for the House of Representatives’ internal legitimacy and effectiveness. Furthermore, in a statement showing the degree of polarisation and zero-sum logic openly displayed by politicians in Libya, Muhammad Suwan, the President of Libya’s Muslim Brotherhood connected Justice and Construction Party, declared that the military operations occurring around Tripoli’s airport were a legitimate response to Haftar’s Operation Dignity in Benghazi. The statement, initially reported by Associated Press, has been denied since through the party’s Facebook page.
Lastly, after a series of concerned remarks from Egyprian President Abdel Fattah Sisi, former Arab League General Secretary Amr Moussa announced that Egypt might step up its role in the ongoing Libyan crisis over concern for regional and internal stability, invoking the country’s right to self defense in light of the political and security vacuum that currently characterizes the region of Cyrenaica.


01Aug2014 			Escalating Violence in Libya Necessitates International Mediation		
Violence at the Ras Al-Jadirr Border led to the border crossing being closed by Tunisian authorities earlier today.  The crossing has been overwhelmed in the last three days due in large part to the large Egyptian diaspora, who were recently advised to leave the country by their embassy. Egyptian refugees were again blamed for an incident where a group of migrants rushed the Tunisian side of the border.  This led to officials firing weapons in the air to disperse the crowd and an immediate closure of the border.
With the success of the protest against Ansar Al Sharia at the Jalaa Hospital in Benghazi, a group of protestors gathered in Martyrs’ Square, before heading down the Airport Road, in an attempt to reclaim the road from the militias.  However, the group was turned back at the Ministry of Interior building by militia units. The protestors have since began organizing another attempt on social media overnight.
In an article that I wrote alongside Richard Northern for the Atlantic Council today, I attempt to explain that a mediation process aligned with the new parliament and a new constitutional settlement, backed by the international community, offers any prospect of breaking the cycle of fear and violence in Libya:
A mediation process will not provide an instant solution. It may take time for the militias, who are wary of being sidelined, to accept that there can be no military victory and that they have more to gain through the political process. But the pressures of public opinion, exhaustion, and stalemate will tell eventually. By then, a concerted international mediation effort should stand ready to take advantage of the opening and facilitate a way forward.
 

Share 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+LinkedIn 
  Recent Posts 
Review of Syria: A Recent History (14 May 2015)
Operation Idris (9 May 2015)
Negotiations Hit Yet Another Slump as Oil Sector Struggles (8 May 2015)
The July 2012 Libyan Election and the Origin of Post-Qadhafi Appeasement (29 Apr 2015)
All Eyes on Migrants as Political Deal Keeps Slipping Through (27 Apr 2015)
Milliband Puts His Foot in His Mouth on Libya (26 Apr 2015)
Are UK Failures in Libya to Blame for Mediterranean Migrant Crisis? (25 Apr 2015)
Migrant Issue on BBC 5 Live and Fan Mail (22 Apr 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Humanitarian Crisis In Sirte (22 Apr 2015)
Libya Dawn Repels Uprisings in Tripoli as Instability Plagues Libya (21 Apr 2015)
How to Solve the Crisis in the Mediterranean? (20 Apr 2015)
The Anglo-Senussi ‘War’ of 1915 – 17 and the Emergence of Modern Cyrenaica (17 Apr 2015)
Aiding the Assyrians Fight Against ISIS (16 Apr 2015)
Hawks Prevailing in Tobruk? Another ‘Lost’ Week for Libya (14 Apr 2015)
The ‘Oil Crescent’ is Pacified despite Tobruk’s New NOC (7 Apr 2015)
Delegations Back in Tripoli and Tobruk, Will the Agreement Stand? (1 Apr 2015)
Checks, Balances, and the Draft Agreement on the Political Transition in Libya (31 Mar 2015)
Haftar Holds the Key to Peace in Libya (26 Mar 2015)
Talks derailed again as Misratan Militias Face Jihadists (24 Mar 2015)
Smuggled Libya Gas Fuels Conflict (23 Mar 2015)
A Week of Waiting in Libya (16 Mar 2015)
Dialogue Resumes in Morocco as IS Militants Sweep Oil Fields (8 Mar 2015)
Why Picking Sides in Libya Won’t Work (6 Mar 2015)
ISIS Fighters Take Over Major Libyan Oilfields (5 Mar 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Explosion at ISIS-Controlled Hisba Building in Derna (4 Mar 2015)
Is This the Week That Makes or Breaks Libya? (2 Mar 2015)
Islamic State Will Flourish if the West Picks Sides in Libya (24 Feb 2015)
Russia Today Interview Explaining Why Libya is Where It is (24 Feb 2015)
Islamic State Gains Libya Foothold (24 Feb 2015)
HoR Suspend its Participation in UN Talks (23 Feb 2015)
Pack Interview with Cape Town Radio About Situation in Libya (20 Feb 2015)
Will Federalists Spoil the UN Negotiations’ Process? (17 Feb 2015)
The Islamic State Launches Another Offensive in Libya, What Next? (17 Feb 2015)
Egypt Launches Airstrikes in Derna After ISIS Beheads Coptic Christians (16 Feb 2015)
Libya’s Power Blocs are Fracturing (15 Feb 2015)
NY Times Editorial Pointing Out the Urgent Need For International Action in Libya (15 Feb 2015)
The Art of Seizing the Moment (Slava vs. Lars Part III) (10 Feb 2015)
Talks to Pay Symbolic Visit to Ghadames as Misratan Option Fails (9 Feb 2015)
Libya: Armed Politics and Regional Escalation (6 Feb 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Warplanes Strike Fajr Libya Positions in Bin Jawad (5 Feb 2015)
HoR Does Housekeeping by Shelving Political Isolation Law (4 Feb 2015)
Dialogue Continues in Geneva Despite Violence (30 Jan 2015)
Pack, Fitzgerald, Northern and Abdulrahman Al-Ageli to speak on Feb 9 at RUSI (29 Jan 2015)
At Least Eight Killed in Deadly Attack on Corinthia Hotel (28 Jan 2015)
Talks to Resume as Need for External Support Seems Now Inevitable (26 Jan 2015)
Do you require high quality analysis and forecasting on Libya, tailored to your organisation’s needs and individual interests? (21 Jan 2015)
How To End Libya’s War (21 Jan 2015)
Is the Tide Turning? Or Will Negotiations Bring Even More Divisions? (18 Jan 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Stopping Goods Seizure at Port of Benghazi and Airstrike Warnings for Misrata Airport and Seaport (14 Jan 2015)
As the State Collapses, Rival Blocks Agree to Talks in Geneva (12 Jan 2015)
Concerns grow that Libya is becoming a terrorist hot spot (10 Jan 2015)
Ageela Salah calls for a political solution as Greek tanker gets attacked (6 Jan 2015)
Libya in 2015: The Scramble for Oil and Scenarios for Transition (2 Jan 2015)
Libya continues to slide down a spiral of violence (31 Dec 2014)
Stalemate in the Oil Crescent? (19 Dec 2014)
The Arab Spring, Four Years On (18 Dec 2014)
Force Majeure Declared over Sidra and Ras Lanuf as Fighting Rages on (16 Dec 2014)
Libya Dawn Offensive Against the Oil Ports Kicks Off (13 Dec 2014)
Second Round of Negotiations Postponed Amid Leon’s Efforts (9 Dec 2014)
Different Western Perspectives to Foreign Mediation in Libya (8 Dec 2014)
Libya’s UN Talks to Resume Next Tuesday? (4 Dec 2014)
Tobruk Goes to Vienna as Haftar Describes Unrealistic Rosy Picture (30 Nov 2014)
All Out Fighting for Tripoli Resumes, the Demise of the Negotiations Illusion? (26 Nov 2014)
Post Supreme Court Ruling Uncertainty Continues in Divided Libya (19 Nov 2014)
Publication of Updated Post-Nov 6 Supreme Court Decision Report. (13 Nov 2014)
Questions from a Libyan living in Benghazi (13 Nov 2014)
Car Bombs Yield Further Escalation in Libya (13 Nov 2014)
Bomb Targets Thinni-Leon Meeting amid Oil Sector Setbacks (9 Nov 2014)
Supreme Court Dismisses House of Representatives (7 Nov 2014)
Introducing Arabic Articles about Libya Translated into English (5 Nov 2014)
The Battle for Oil and Money Quietly Continues (3 Nov 2014)
Review of The Concise Guide to Wine and Blind Tasting (3 Nov 2014)
Do We Need a New Negotiation Initiative? (30 Oct 2014)
Engagement Underway to Bolster Political Deal (26 Oct 2014)
Army Ordered to Move towards Tripoli as Tribal Leaders Gather in Egypt (22 Oct 2014)
Interview with Jason Pack and Mattia Toaldo on Voice of Russia (21 Oct 2014)
UK Backgammon Final Article cover in the Independent Newspaper (21 Oct 2014)
Libya: The war nobody can win (20 Oct 2014)
Haftar Goes All-In with Large Scale Assault on Benghazi (18 Oct 2014)
Egypt Intensifies Effort to Eradicate Militant Islamists in Eastern Libya (16 Oct 2014)
Libya Back on the Brink (9 Oct 2014)
On Proxies and Peace Making Perspectives in Libya (9 Oct 2014)
The Tsunami hits Monte Carlo, the Hobgoblin of Continuity, and Ideas to Reinvigorate the World Championship (7 Oct 2014)
Genius and Grace in Monte Carlo (7 Oct 2014)
LIA and Goldman Sachs Square off in Court (7 Oct 2014)
Is Misrata Beginning to Expand its Influence Beyond the Political Sphere? (4 Oct 2014)
Is France Preparing A Ground Invasion in Libya? (3 Oct 2014)
Ghadames to Host UNSMIL Brokered Talks (28 Sep 2014)
How to Give a Gammonish Recube (Slava vs. Lars Part II) (28 Sep 2014)
Al-Thinni’s New Cabinet Approved amid Preparations for Negotiation Talks (24 Sep 2014)
HoR Rejects Thinni’s Cabinet, Libya Dawn Tries to Restore Life in the Capital (21 Sep 2014)
Let the Scramble for Oil Money Begin (19 Sep 2014)
Is Operation Dignity Receiving Further Air Support from the UAE? (17 Sep 2014)
Why Scottish Independence is Bad for Libya (11 Sep 2014)
Libya: Stalemate or Calm before the (Return of the) Storm? (9 Sep 2014)
Is Libya the New Battleground for the Islamist-Nationalist Proxy War? (9 Sep 2014)
Thinni Given PM Mandate as Libya Dawn Tries to Put Facts on the Ground (2 Sep 2014)
Thinni Resigns Again, Tries to Breathe Life into HoR (29 Aug 2014)
Is the HoR Losing the Internal Battle for Legitimacy? (27 Aug 2014)
Latest Strikes Make Libya the New Proxy War in The Region (26 Aug 2014)
Is Operation Dawn Forces’s Tripoli Success The Beginning of the End or The Beginning of An Escalation In Conflict? (24 Aug 2014)
As HoR Continues its Work, Arab League Shuns Call for Foreign Intervention (21 Aug 2014)
Covert Intervention? Air Strike in Tripoli Sparks Anxiety Over Foreign Role in Libya (18 Aug 2014)
HoR Tries Raising its Profile by Pushing for Intervention and Disbandment of Militias (14 Aug 2014)
Toppling Qaddafi: Libya and the Limits of Liberal Intervention (14 Aug 2014)
Libya at a Turning Point? HoR Agrees to Direct Presidential Elections as Fighting Continues Unabated (13 Aug 2014)
Obama Discusses Libya With Thomas L. Friedman (11 Aug 2014)
The NYT on the Impact of the 2012 Benghazi Assault on US Strikes in Iraq (9 Aug 2014)
Despite Turmoil Libya’s Oil Production Remains Steady (8 Aug 2014)
Bernard-Henri Levy Urges The West to Act Before the Clock Strikes Midnight (8 Aug 2014)
Algeria and Egypt Defuse Intervention Talks as HoR Starts Its Works by Ordering Ceasefire (7 Aug 2014)
Elders Hope to Facilitate an Agreement in Cyrenaica As GNC President Dismisses HoR As ‘Unconstitutional’ (6 Aug 2014)
House of Representatives Postpones First Meeting Amid Violence and Displacements (3 Aug 2014)
Escalating Violence in Libya Necessitates International Mediation (1 Aug 2014)
Ansar Al-Sharia Claim Islamic Emirate in Benghazi (31 Jul 2014)
Libya on the Brink: How to Stop the Fighting (30 Jul 2014)
Libya Back in the Limelight, Will Actors on The Ground Capitalize from it? (30 Jul 2014)
No Eid Celebrations as Libya Descends into Chaos (29 Jul 2014)
Calls for Dialogue Fall on Deaf Ears as Militias Get Entrenched in Battle (27 Jul 2014)
Will the House of Representatives be nipped in the bud by ongoing violence? (25 Jul 2014)
Violence in the Capital Escalates as The Government Struggles to Sell Crude (25 Jul 2014)
Are the Parliamentary Elections a Precursor for More Violence? (23 Jul 2014)
As Fighting in the Captial Intensifies Zintanis Hold Airport (22 Jul 2014)
Are The Islamists as Organized as The Media Portrays Them to Be? (21 Jul 2014)
Islamist-Nationalist Rift Intensifies as Another Prominent Female Activist is Assassinated and Airport Workers Strike (17 Jul 2014)
Damage to the Airport and Aircrafts Are a Big Blow to a Weakened Business Sector (15 Jul 2014)
Is Tripoli Witnessing A Civil War between Misrata and Zintan or is this a minor clash between rogue brigades? (15 Jul 2014)
Despite Strikes in Brega, Ras Lanuf and Sidra Set to Open (14 Jul 2014)
Jadhran Hands over Port and Signs of Grand Bargain Emerging (4 Jul 2014)
The House of Representatives Election (26 Jun 2014)
Election Day Guide (25 Jun 2014)
Mary Fitzgerald’s Interview with Hiftar (24 Jun 2014)
Turks and Qataris Ordered to Leave Eastern Libya (23 Jun 2014)
Call for Part Time Consultants (21 Jun 2014)
Three Things to Watch for in the Libya Elections (21 Jun 2014)
Libya’s Faustian Bargains: The Hardcopy (12 Jun 2014)
Setting the Record Straight on the US’s role in Libya (10 Jun 2014)
Maiteg Accepts Supreme Court Decision and Resigns (10 Jun 2014)
Maetig Seizes Prime Ministry Building (3 Jun 2014)
Thinni Vows to Stay On (29 May 2014)
Ansar al-Sharia Mishandles the Media War (28 May 2014)
A Sober Evaluation of Hiftar’s Movement (If we can call it that) (23 May 2014)
The World According to Hiftar (23 May 2014)
“Leaders” of Libyan Army “Suspend” GNC (19 May 2014)
Game Theory, Kidnappings and the Pitfalls of Appeasement in Libya (17 May 2014)
Libya: Swinging Pendulums and Political Crematoria (16 May 2014)
Jordanian Ambassador Freed After Libya Kidnap (14 May 2014)
Libya’s Unexpected Strength (8 May 2014)
Ides of March Cambridge Invitational Tournament – March 2014 (8 May 2014)
Who’s for Prime Minister? (7 May 2014)
Jordan to Release Libyan Militant in Exchange for Ambassador (29 Apr 2014)
Invitation to Launching of Atlantic Council Report “Libya’s Faustian Bargains” (29 Apr 2014)
Libya Lifts Force Majeure on Second Oil Port (28 Apr 2014)
Rejoice and Export Crude, ya Libiyya (7 Apr 2014)
Libyan rebels and Government Agree to Gradually Reopen Occupied Oil Ports (7 Apr 2014)
Some April First Foolery Libyan Style (5 Apr 2014)
Libya Sees “Good Intentions” in Oil Port Talks; Rebel Split Seen (4 Apr 2014)
Jadhran’s Supporters Still Being Paid until November (2 Apr 2014)
Crimea as Europe’s Existential Question (28 Mar 2014)
Zeidan Speaks to Christian Amanpour (26 Mar 2014)
ENI Talks Gas with Libya, Shoring Up Non-Russian Supply (24 Mar 2014)
Lars Trabolt vs Vyachslav Pryadkin  in The WC Final — PART 1: Limiting Gammonish Volitility (24 Mar 2014)
Libya Leads World in Traffic Deaths Per Capita (20 Mar 2014)
Iraqi Insurgency Tactics Being Used by Jihadists in Libya (17 Mar 2014)
Sometimes It Is Tough Being a Pirate (17 Mar 2014)
Consensus Principle and Regional Development Budget Approved by Congress (13 Mar 2014)
Libya’s Prime Minister Ousted in Chaos Over Tanker (12 Mar 2014)
Libyan Oil Stolen at Sidra (9 Mar 2014)
The Future of Libya: Is ‘Pakistanisation’ a Foregone Conclusion? (8 Mar 2014)
An Absurd Connection between Ukraine and Libya (8 Mar 2014)
Possible Presidential Election? (6 Mar 2014)
GNC Members’ Cars Burned as Protestors Vandalise Congress (3 Mar 2014)
The Battle for Benghazi (1 Mar 2014)
Constitutional Committee Election Final Turnout Put at Half Million (24 Feb 2014)
45 Percent Turnout in Constitutional Committee Elections but 13 Seats Cannot be Declared (22 Feb 2014)
Too Cool for a Coup, Part Two (21 Feb 2014)
New Alignments between Zintan, GNC, Islamists and the Population (21 Feb 2014)
To Coup, Or Not to Coup? (16 Feb 2014)
Jadhran’s Brother to Be Returned to Libya after Arrest in UAE (13 Feb 2014)
Libya vs Western Bankers (13 Feb 2014)
Correcting the Course of Libya’s Revolution (Part 1/2) (12 Feb 2014)
Even Federalism Won’t Placate the Federalists (11 Feb 2014)
Zeidan’s Newly Proposed Cabinet has Been Rejected (11 Feb 2014)
Dunks and Dodging Bullets: Americans Chase Hoop Dreams in Libya (9 Feb 2014)
Protests Against the Extention of the GNC’s Mandate Passed Peacefully (8 Feb 2014)
The Feb 7 Extension of GNC issue (6 Feb 2014)
Libya PM Threatens Eastern Protesters with Troops (5 Feb 2014)
Is Jadhran’s Support Waning? (1 Feb 2014)
Libya: Date Set for Vote to Select Constitutional Panel (31 Jan 2014)
Madagascar’s Radio DJ President Jockeys for Power (28 Jan 2014)
Power Cut Misery to Continue Until Warshefana Clashes Resolved (28 Jan 2014)
Sebha Still Awaiting Military Support (28 Jan 2014)
Egyptian Embassy Staff ‘Seized’ in Libya (26 Jan 2014)
Libya Chaos Worsens (10 Jan 2014)
Killings of Briton and New Zealander Underscore Libya’s Security Breakdown (4 Jan 2014)
Anna Baldinetti looking for research assistant (3 Jan 2014)
Libya in 2014??? (31 Dec 2013)
Khattala with the Candlestick in the Diplomatic Mission (30 Dec 2013)
Happy Libyan Independence Day and Merry Christmas (24 Dec 2013)
Libya Probes Deadly Army Checkpoint Bombing (23 Dec 2013)

 




		©
						
			LibyaAnalysis.com  |  Site by Round Hex





