October | 2014 | Libya Analysis
October | 2014 | Libya Analysis

Libya AnalysisHome
Consulting

Consulting Services
Mission
Clients
Team


Pack’s Publications

Op Eds
Scholarly Book Reviews
Peer Review Publications
Media Appearances
The 2011 Libyan Uprisings: The Book
Backgammon Articles


CV
Public Lectures
About Jason Pack
Contact
Viewing posts from: October, 2014




Categories 
Adventure (13)

Africa (5)

Backgammon Articles (10)

Bespoke Products (1)

Blog Posts (87)

Egypt (30)

Featured Posts (95)

Federalism (77)

GNC (140)

House of Commons Briefings (6)

House of Representatives (52)

ICC (6)

Intervention (129)

Iran (5)

Kurdistan (KRG) (6)

Libyan Army/Militias (225)

Libyan Business/Investment (93)

Libyan Elections (106)

Maghreb (7)

Negotiations (11)

News (313)

Oil (65)

Pack's Publications (167)

Forthcoming Book (19)

Media Appearances (43)

Op Eds (84)

Peer Review Publications (5)

Scholarly Book Reviews (9)



ports (31)

Qaddafi (35)

Salafis (49)

Syria (13)

Terrorism (43)

Tuareg (5)

Tunisia (6)

UK Politics (2)

US Politics (63)

USLBA (4)

Wine (1)


Featured Posts Show All
Archives 
May 2015 (3)
April 2015 (13)
March 2015 (10)
February 2015 (15)
January 2015 (12)
December 2014 (8)
November 2014 (11)
October 2014 (15)
September 2014 (10)
August 2014 (17)
July 2014 (15)
June 2014 (10)
May 2014 (11)
April 2014 (8)
March 2014 (15)
February 2014 (15)
January 2014 (8)
December 2013 (11)
November 2013 (8)
October 2013 (12)
September 2013 (7)
August 2013 (6)
July 2013 (6)
June 2013 (10)
May 2013 (10)
April 2013 (8)
March 2013 (5)
February 2013 (9)
January 2013 (14)
December 2012 (5)
November 2012 (7)
October 2012 (14)
September 2012 (10)
August 2012 (8)
July 2012 (13)
June 2012 (20)
May 2012 (4)
April 2012 (3)
March 2012 (5)
February 2012 (4)
January 2012 (2)
December 2011 (4)
November 2011 (4)
October 2011 (9)
September 2011 (7)
August 2011 (2)
June 2011 (1)
April 2011 (2)
March 2011 (1)
February 2011 (1)



30Oct2014 			Do We Need a New Negotiation Initiative?		
After PM Thinni’s visit to Khartoum in the past few days, Sudan’s Foreign Minister Ali Karti has reportedly announced the devising of a Sudanese plan to host talks with all relevant Libyan actors and facilitate the reaching of a political deal. The ‘Sudanese initiative’ thus becomes the third publicly announced plan aiming to reach a political solution to the current Libyan crisis after those promoted by Algeria and the UNSMIL.
Both the Algerian and UNSMIL-brokered initiatives were expected to have meaningful sessions undertaken throughout the month of October, which has been instead characterized by a spike in violence in Benghazi and by the less bloody but equally crucial battle for the control of financial and oil-related institutional assets. In the past days, UNSMIL’s Head Bernardino Leon has been effectively working hard to bring forth the second round of UNSMIL-sponsored talks by meeting with a number of representatives from both camps, including with the highly controversial Mufti al-Ghariani. These talks, however, have been so far inconclusive and failed in getting opposing camps back to the negotiation tables.
On the other hand, with the benefit of (limited) hindsight it is worth appreciating the ongoing evolution that the Misratan and Tobruk-based camps are undergoing vis-à-vis external pressures. With regards to the Tobruk camp, it is worth looking at al-Thinni’s trip to Sudan in itself. Only a few weeks ago, Khartoum was accused by the Tobruk establishment of arming the Misratan camp and breeding Islamist militias throughout the country. Thinni’s trip, however, should not only be seen as an attempt to restore ties with this strategic partner, but also as a sign of the dissatisfaction of several HoR members with the government’s previous stance towards negotiations. In this sense, Thinni’s recent openings to rival militias, as well as the overtures made by his newly appointed Foreign Minister, show signs of mounting internal pressure from the HoR camp to dismiss the hardline stance adopted by the Prime Minister after his appointment in September and push for a political deal with moderate counterparts.
As for the Islamist camp, Borzou Daraghi reports for the Financial Times on the somewhat under-appreciated dynamic by which the broad alliance of Islamist-leaning forces, established by virtue of the overtly-aggressive rhetoric employed by Haftar which lumped them all together, is actually facilitating the tilt of more moderate forces towards the radical end of the spectrum:

During the past few months, as war has intensified between the Haftar camp and Libya Dawn, evidence has grown of strengthening ties between the extremist groups and the mainstream Islamist militias, even as their political allies continue talks with western diplomats and the UN aimed at ending the stand-off.
Mr Hassi recently acknowledged that his allies in Benghazi were fighting alongside Ansar al-Sharia against the forces of Mr Haftar and the Tubruq government.  “Ansar al-Sharia are part of the brigades defending Benghazi against outlaw forces,” said Ali Ramadan Abu Zaqouk, one of about 30 members of the recently elected parliament close to Mr Hassi.

Nonetheless, although not necessarily encouraging per se, these shifts and tensions within camps tell us the story of relatively fluid blocks which are not yet crystallized in a Syrian-like scenario, where envisioning negotiation talks is now a wild fantasy. As Leon recently reiterated, however, the clock is ticking fast and Libyan actors must avoid the further deterioration of this situation beyond the point of no return. With three negotiation initiatives available on the market, it is now up to Libyan buyers to act more decisively to make them successful.
Finally, as analysts and observers focus on developments in the political arena and in the coastal areas, the southern Libyan mainland is being dangerously overlooked. Even though the events of In Amenas have not been repeat as of yet, it is best to assume that this is the result of a tactical choice by armed groups active across the Sahara, rather than the consequence of their eradication and defeat following from French intervention in the region. You can read my take on this in my contribution to this piece on The National:

Jason Pack, a Libya expert at Cambridge University, says militants pushed out from northern Mali have set up training camps in Libya’s south, adding that the region has become “much more” than a transit route for gunmen and smugglers.
“Drones have spotted training camps and Western intelligence officers have been to these places,” he said. “I don’t have precise figures. But I’m sure that there are Libyans among these jihadist groups.” Both Mr Pack and Mr Fazzani also drew links between extremists entrenched in Libya’s remote south and powerful Islamist militia in the north and east of the country.



26Oct2014 			Engagement Underway to Bolster Political Deal		
Fighting continues in Libya’s Benghazi where forces aligned with the National Army (LNA) and Operation Dignity are reportedly making considerable gains. After a first announcement was made more than a week ago, Operation Dignity forces are claiming again full control of the February 17 Martyrs Brigade camp with spokesperson Mohammed al-Hijazi going even as far as saying that 90% of Benghazi is now under control of the Army. Nonetheless, the fight is far from over with entire districts witnessing widespread armed confrontations and Operation Dignity forces asking citizens to evacuate due to the entrenchment in residential areas of forces belonging to the Benghazi’s Revolutionaries Shoura Council.
One question worth asking at this stage is if and how recent events in the Sinai Peninsula will impact Egypt’s commitment and support to Operation Dignity and the LNA’s Chief of Staff, who has been reportedly in close connection with the establishment in Cairo since its appointment last summer. Last Friday saw in fact the undertaking of a high-profile attack on an Egyptian army check-point, which led to the death of 31 soldiers and to the declaration of a state of emergency in the peninsula.  The extent to which Operation Dignity forces and the LNA can keep up their recent pace of success on their own is all the more relevant now that reports indicating Derna as the next targeted destination are starting to emerge.
At the policy level, (international) engagement and dialogue seem to be the order of the day for both camps in Libyan politics. HoR appointed Abdullah Thinni has recently returned from a trip to Malta, where he met with the local government, as well as with UNSMIL’s Bernardino Leon and the US Ambassador to Libya Deborah Jones. Thinni is now expected to go to Sudan on Wednesday. The Misratan and Islamist camp has been equally active, entering talks with a number of international partners in recent days. The Head of the EU Mission to Libya, Nataliya Apostolova, recently met with representatives of the MB-aligned ‘Justice and Construction’ party in Tripoli. GNC appointed PM Omar al-Hassi received its first diplomatic visit as Prime Minister by a Turkish envoy last week.
The hope at this stage is that these meetings represent a concrete first phase of indirect talks that can help establish common ground between factions and lead to  direct negotiations that are more inclusive and successful than those held in Ghadames were. Encouraging signs in this sense came from last week’s interview granted by HoR-appointed Libyan Foreign Minister Mohamed Dairy to the Associated Press:

“We are seeking a settlement,” Dayri told The Associated Press at his family’s home in Cairo. “The political track should be enough to bring us back to Tripoli.” (…)
“Benghazi is different,” Dayri said. “The fight in Benghazi is against radical elements who have been assassinating civilians and military personnel since 2012 and who have been putting law and order in jeopardy.” “In Tripoli, there is strife relating to power and resources. There, we would not like to pursue a military solution,” he added.

Work at different levels is also underway to guarantee a re-establishment of aerial connections between the country and its neighbors. Reports indicate that besides flights from Turkey, connections to Tunis will be established from Misrata’s airport and that Mitiga airport is also undergoing works to allow Air Malta and other carriers to soon resume flights to and from Tripoli.
Lastly, today it is worth looking west and celebrate the so far smooth undertaking of legislative elections in Tunisia which mark once and for all the end of the transition phase in the country. After more than 5 million people reportedly registered to vote, turn out has hit the 60% mark and no major disruptions or irregularities were reported.


22Oct2014 			Army Ordered to Move towards Tripoli as Tribal Leaders Gather in Egypt		
As the third anniversary of Mu’ammar Qadhafi’s death passed almost unnoticed, the Libyan Tobruk-based government headed by PM Abdullah Thinni issued on Tuesday an order calling on army units to head towards Tripoli to regain control of it. To wrestle the capital city back from ‘Libya Dawn’ forces, the Government has also called on the city’s youth and inhabitants to take an active role in facilitating the liberation of the city. More specifically, the governmental statement incited the population to carry out acts of civil disobedience, so as to hamper the work of the al-Hassi administration, as well as to actively join the fight against militias stationed there, in a move reminiscent of Haftar’s televised call on Benghazinos to take up arms against members of the Benghazi’s Revolutionaries Shoura Council.
Meanwhile, during the past three days, notables and representatives from various Libya’s tribes gathered in Cairo, beind closed-doors, to lay out a framework agreement for the establishment of a National Council of Tribal Affairs. According to statements coming from participants who attended the meeting, the idea behind the council is that of establishing a new platform for carrying out national dialogue initiatives running in parallel to political ones. The rationale behind this being that societal reconciliation processes would be carried out more easily and effectively by taking full advantage of those tribal markers of identity and affiliations that still resonate very powerfully in contemporary Libya.
The council’s structure and composition should be finalised within one month time and, it was stressed, the council would not try to establish itself as yet another center of administrative or executive power. Nonetheless, given the venue chosen for carrying out these meetings, and the statements of support for the HoR as Libya’s sole legitimate body made by a few attendants, it remains to be seen if this body will manage to be inclusive enough so as to achieve the strong potential it has on paper. Given the presence of a Tubu representative at Cairo’s meetings, a first test for the council and its dialogue based initiatives could very well be represented by the latest flare-up in inter-tribal violence occurring in southern Libya. In fact, after almost a year of uneasy calm, armed confrontations have flared-up again between Tubu and Touareg groups in Obari, leading to several deaths and injuries despite mediation attempts by the HoR.


21Oct2014 			Interview with Jason Pack and Mattia Toaldo on Voice of Russia		
Here is an overview article with Mattia Toaldo and I discussing the situation on the ground and what international actors need to do in Libya.  It interestingly reveals that the Al-Thinni government is now getting support from Russia as they have become more biased and reliant on outside intervention from Egypt to project their power. You can read the text or listen to the radio podcast by using the link here.  Also it appears that major international actors are meeting with members of the HoR and government in La Valletta, Malta. Here is some brief information about that here.


21Oct2014 			UK Backgammon Final Article cover in the Independent Newspaper		
Chris Bray is the world’s only backgammon writer with a regular column appearing  in a major print newspaper, the UK’s The Independent. On October 11th, he discussed the first inaugural UK Open which I won by winning 9 out of ten matches as well as 8 in a row against many of this island’s best players.
Bray took as his subject material, the fascinating 2nd game of the match which ended when I passed my opponent’s recube to 8 .  You can read the article by clicking here. To my eyes even more fascinating were the initial cube to 2 and the my recube to 4 earlier in the game and most especially the cube to 8 that Martin Birkhahn my opponent did not spin. That cube could have come just the turn before the position dealt with in Bray’s article. I certainly would have taken and Martin would likely have won eight points right there and might even have gammoned me for 16 points and the whole match! The fascinating  sequence of four cubing positions can be followed by clicking on the links embedded in the sentences above. It shows high pressure match backgammon at its most intellectually and psychologically challenging. Enjoy


20Oct2014 			Libya: The war nobody can win		
As Haftar’s counter-offensive is still underway in Benghazi, the US, Italy, France, Germany and the UK issued on Saturday a new joint statement regarding latest developments in Libya. In it, Libya’s key Western partners vented their frustration for the lack of positive developments in the country and, most importantly, finally appeared to be taking a more critical stance towards the House of Representatives and the lack of inclusiveness and propensity to dialogue showed so far by its government.

We are also concerned by Khalifa Hifter’s attacks in Benghazi. We consider that Libya’s security challenges and the fight against terrorist organizations can only be sustainably addressed by regular armed forces under the control of a central authority which is accountable to a democratic and inclusive parliament.
(…) We agree that there is no military solution to the Libyan crisis. We are particularly dismayed that after meetings in Ghadames and Tripoli, parties have not respected calls for a ceasefire.

A more engaging approach towards the HoR and Thinni’s government from the international community could very well prove to be the event required to kick start a virtuous cycle inside Libya. Strong international pressure could in fact allow moderates from both camps to gain momentum to carry out a new set of negotiations within a more inclusive framework than the one employed for the Ghadames talks.
This could hold true especially in light of the widespread understanding that no coalition, let alone any single militia, has a shot at winning this military confrontation, even with substantial outside support. You can read my analysis of recent developments and the current outlook for Libya in a piece I wrote with Rhiannon Smith for Al-Jazeera:

None of Libya’s factions are strong enough to rule the whole country and it seems unlikely that any are deluded enough to think they can score a knockout blow, even if buttressed by outside help. (…) On October 15, Haftar renewed his offensive in Benghazi  while Zintani forces in the west attempted to retake Kikla from Operation Dawn.
In recent months, both the Zintanis and Haftar’s forces have been overpowered by their Dawn opponents and this coordinated anti-Islamist offensive does not mean they suddenly believe they can beat the Islamists militarily, despite Haftar’s rhetoric.  Rather, it is a move to strengthen their position before entering peace talks or before Haftar steps down leaving the way for more institutional actors. Indeed, during the offensive the Libyan Army announced it had adopted Haftar’s Operation Dignity campaign as its own, allowing the Tobruk administration to take credit for any military advances by Haftar’s campaign, while also making clear that the body is no more legitimate than its overtly militia-aligned adversary – Operation Dawn.

One group who has no stake in the success of a new round of negotiations and will surely try to derail the process is represented by the broad Salafi-Jihadist camp. As events in the past few months have made clear, even though Libya has not become a recipient of active foreign Jihadist fighters to the degree of Syria, groups like Ansar al-Shari’a and the Derna Shoura Council of Islamic Youth have greatly benefited from the widespread lawlessness marring the country since the fall of Qadhafi.
Furthermore, the tactics and antics recently employed by Libyan groups, starting with the campaigns of targeted killings up to the military strategies employed during the siege of Benina Airport, are a clear sign of the international connections and linkages between Libyan Salafi-Jihadist groups and the broad Jihadist movement active in the Middle East. You can hear my take on this as well as on the broader Libyan situation in my contribution to Radio France Internationale.


18Oct2014 			Haftar Goes All-In with Large Scale Assault on Benghazi		
Only a few days after repeated suicide attacks made it look like Benina Airport was about to fall to the Benghazi’s Revolutionaries Shoura Council, Operation Dignity forces have launched throughout the week a massive assault on the eastern city in a bid to expel once and for all their Islamist rivals.
After calling on Benghazi’s population to take up arms against ‘terrorists’, in a speech broadcasted on Tuesday night, renegade General Khalifa Haftar and his forces started the current military operation in the early hours of Wednesday morning with a well coordinated assault that involved the use of different forces. For starters, airstrikes were carried out against Islamist positions with an intensity and effectiveness that is reportedly well beyond the capabilities of Haftar’s remaining air forces. Although both Egypt and the Operation Dignity leadership denied direct foreign involvement, the understanding is that, at the very least, Libyan pilots have been provided with Egyptian planes for this particular operation.  Although some say it is the reverse that it is Egyptian pilots flying Libyan planes!
 Either way, Egyptian involvement, however, is reported to be much stronger by the Associated Press:

The officials, who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the media, said the operation would last three to six months and involve the use of an Egyptian navy vessel as a command center off the Mediterranean coast near Tobruk. Renegade Libyan general Khalifa Hiftar, who has vowed to wipe out the Islamist militias, is not leading the operation, they added, with Cairo dealing directly with a newly appointed Libyan chief of staff who has visited Egypt several times in recent weeks.

Secondly, for the first time since the start of Operation Dignity, the 204 Tank Brigade was involved in battle and is reported to have played a key role in facilitating the expulsion of the February 17th Martyrs Brigade from its base in Benghazi. The situation in the city remains nonetheless fluid with localized, yet interconnected, armed skirmishes and fights effectively bringing the city to a halt and stranding several families within their houses.
Most importantly, after the speech made by General Haftar on Tuesday, fighting this time directly involved civilians in what some activists have started calling the ‘October 15 Uprising’. Disturbingly, revenge attacks and killings have already been reported across the city, and today’s appeal by Haftar to refrain from reprisals and bring suspects to Army posts, so as to refer them later on to justice, might have come already too late. The Middle East Eye reports a quote on this matter by Mohammed Eljarh:

Mohamed Eljarh told MEE that the spread of fighting to the city’s residents is not a new phenomenon, but that in this fight the link-up between army and non-army fighters seems to be better co-ordinated.
(…) “We may witness revenge attacks against people loosely affiliated with Ansar al-Sharia, even on families of the group’s members. This is because now it is not just professional army personnel conducting the offensive.”

More broadly, had Haftar’s attack been limited to an offensive carried out solely with Libyan forces belonging to sympathetic militias and army units, this operation could have still been perceived as an attempt to balance the score between Operation Dignity and Operation Dawn before the imminent resumption of UN-sponsored negotiations at Ghadames. However, the overtly clear foreign support received by Haftar and his forces, along with the statements of support coming for the first time from the Tobruk-based establishment and the army, have clearly altered the matter, making the resumption of negotiations or the undertaking of the Algerian dialogue initiative less likely, but all the more urgent.  It is not yet clear if Haftar intends to step down after this offensive and is just hoping to go out with a bang or to build facts on the ground that his allies can use as bargaining chips in negotiations.
The attack on Benghazi looks therefore more and more like an all-in attempt by the Tobruk-based establishment to put itself in a favorable position before entering in a prolonged stalemate which will be solved by negotiation. In this sense, with part of Benghazi possibly under their control, even though the capital city would remain in the hands of Libya Dawn and Misratan forces, the HoR and its government would find themselves in a much stronger position. Being able to count on the bulk of Libya’s oil reserves, as well as on the widespread international recognition that has been accorded to them by Libya’s international partners  and with a renewed internal standing, the HoR and its partners could even envision trying to wait out for the Dawn camp to either collapse under its lack of financial assets and international recognition or to accept the necessity to come to the negotiation table in a weaker position. Yet in reality that is a false calculus and it is Op Dignity and not Op Dawn who will likely find itself in a weakened position as a result of the developments and the ill-conceived Egyptian intervention.


16Oct2014 			Egypt Intensifies Effort to Eradicate Militant Islamists in Eastern Libya		
Egypt has doubled down in its involvement in the fight against Ansar Al Sharia, with officials disclosing that Egyptian warplanes have bombed Ansar Sharia positions in the eastern city of Benghazi. The operation, they said, was requested by the Thinni administration based in the eastern city of Tobruk. State officials estimated that the operation would last three to six months and involve the use of an Egyptian navy vessel as a command center off the Mediterranean coast near Tobruk. Renegade Libyan general Khalifa Haftar, who has vowed to wipe out the Islamist militias, is not leading the operation with Cairo dealing directly with a newly appointed Libyan chief of staff.
Egypt has made no secret of its support of the elected administration based in Tobruk, viewing the presence of hard-line extremists near its western border as a direct national security threat. It had made no secret of its willingness to offer military support to the Tobruk-based government, saying it would train and arm its forces. Egypt’s direct military involvement, however, strengthens the argument that Libya has become a proxy battleground for larger regional struggles, with Turkey and Qatar backing the Islamist militias while Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates support their opponents. It is interesting to see if the Anti-Islamist faction could turn its back on Haftar, if his last ditch attempt to regain control of Benghazi fails.
It is unclear as to Egypt’s involvement can accomplish. The strikes executed by Egypt this past summer, in conjunction with the United Arab Emirates, proved to be ineffective as the Islamists managed to take control of Tripoli. With that being said, Egypt’s decision to take action in Benghazi will surely increase the level of instability in east Libya. It will be interesting to see how oil markets react to this news as most of Libya’s oil resources lie in the eastern part of the country. To read an AP story in which I was quoted criticizing the short-sightedness of the Egyptian decision, click here.
Jason Pack, a Libya expert at Britain’s Cambridge University, also warned of the complexity of the Libyan conflict, saying Egyptian involvement could have unforeseen consequences.
“Egyptians are making the same mistakes in Libya that the West made in Iraq and Afghanistan,” Pack said. “They support one side over the other. But in Libya the divisions are not between Islamists and non-Islamists. The conflict is very complex.”


09Oct2014 			Libya Back on the Brink		
As discussed in the past few days, the crisis in Libya appears to be edging closer to a turning point, for the better or the worse. Inside the country, in an attempt to erase the losses registered over the summer, Zintani and Haftar’s forces are re-organising themselves and coordinating their activities with institutions in Tobruk. Meanwhile, the Misratan-led camp enjoyed a crucial victory in the past week when the Central Bank, in a display of the de facto power enjoyed by the al-Hassi government, transferred funds to commercial banks for paying three months of family allowances.
In this context, Libya’s international partners should jump on this rare moment of military impasse and political balance to promote dialogue and direct negotiations between all parties, if necessary exerting pressure on their clients within the country. So far, Libya’s factions have in fact demonstrated not only a scarce appetite for compromise, but also a general deficit of negotiating and bargaining skills. International assistance will thus have to play a vital role in ensuring that upcoming talks will yield better results than the meager ones obtained during the first rounds of Ghamades’ talks. You can read more on the crucial international dimension of upcoming negotiations in a piece written by me and Karim Mezran, here at The Hill:

UN Special Representative Bernardino Leon has insisted that another meeting, this time inclusive of the rival military leaders, be convened as soon as possible. Algeria has offered to host such a meeting. (…) Unanimous approval from the United States and European countries is expected over the coming days. But the U.S. must do more than passively issue its support; it must lean on its regional allies to make the conference a success.
Egypt and the United Arab Emirates have so far been intransigent in their support of the anti-Islamists. They have been bombing Islamist arsenals but have failed to tip the scales. Washington ‘leaked’ its allies indiscretions, but has yet to pressure them to stop.  Now it must do so. It should start with covert diplomacy. But if that fails overt threats must be made. Egypt and the UAE are staunch American allies — some might say clients. Obama possessed the tools to bring them into line. He must not be hesitant to deploy them.
Finding a peaceful solution to the Libyan crisis will not be easy. The effort can succeed only with the wholehearted support of all the involved international actors — each pressuring their Libyan clients to buy into a negotiated – rather than an armed – resolution to the conflict. If handled correctly and inclusively, the Algerian-sponsored meetings could yield a decisive breakthrough.

 


09Oct2014 			On Proxies and Peace Making Perspectives in Libya		
Despite the lack of attention displayed by international media outlets, recent developments are leading Libya closer and closer to a breaking point. With French troops quietly setting up shop in northern Niger and the Ghadames talks displaying all the limits of engagement limited to internationally recognised institutions, Libya’s international partners are slowly coming to realise that much broader and sustained efforts are needed in order to achieve a lasting political solutions in the country.
In this sense, international patrons seem to be finally realising that their local proxies are unable to decisively tip the balance of the conflict and consequently momentum is gathering for new talks and dialogue initiatives to be held in the coming weeks. Most importantly, these initiatives will need to engage all of the country’s stakeholders and to move past simplistic and backfiring Islamist vs non-Islamist narratives. The clock is ticking for Libya and a political solution must be achieved before it is too late for its people, institutions and instustries.
You can read here my latest article for the Middle East Eye  which focuses on these issues and prospects analysing them in greater details:

As the situation deteriorates with massive suicide bombing operations rocking Benghazi, Libya is increasingly becoming a vacuum for foreign meddling, encouraging the calcification of the country’s many factions into two loose and unnatural blocs as they attempt to align themselves with outside paymasters. In reality, the current struggle between the anti-Islamist and Islamist umbrella groupings for control of Tripolitania and Benghazi is nested inside a web of ongoing local conflicts. Many of the main actors (the federalists, Zintan, Haftar, Misrata, Ansar Sharia) are simply franchised players who could step away from these political blocs to go it alone at any time. Attempts to present the conflict in Libya as a polarised Clauzewitzian war between two sides distorts the reality.
(…) Fortunately over the last days, perspectives seem to be changing and momentum is gathering behind a new Algerian initiative for a UN-supported mediation effort that actually brings all the stakeholders together and refuses to see the conflict as a binary struggle between two polarised opponents.
(…) A new meeting in Spain or Algeria in late October could hold the key to keeping Libya united. Giving political promises to Libya’s key stakeholders is essential to incentivising a political rather than a military solution to the impasse. Realities on the ground are shifting rapidly, if we wait for the Central Bank to be looted or Libya’s oil ports to be blockaded it will then be too late to roll the clock back.



07Oct2014 			The Tsunami hits Monte Carlo, the Hobgoblin of Continuity, and Ideas to Reinvigorate the World Championship		
Backgammon is a game with three thousand year old antecedents. This doesn’t mean today’s backgammon enthusiasts need to accept the current flaws in the organization of its most prestigious tournament simply because this is the way things have been done for decades already. In this article  in the September/October edition of Prime Time Backgammon entitled “The Tsunami hits Monte Carlo, the Hobgoblin of Continuity, and Ideas to Reinvigorate the World Championship”, I comment on the Japanese domination of World Class Backgammon, and explain the new double elimination format of Monte Carlo while delving into some of the positives and negatives of the format as well as what can be done to change it to make the World Championships more fun, more fair, more respectable and more lucrative. My goal is to bring more interest into backgammon and to grow the game that we all love. Click here to read my Manifesto of what should be done to reinvigorate the World Championships of Backgammon.


07Oct2014 			Genius and Grace in Monte Carlo		
This article in the September/October edition of Prime Time Backgammon highlights the amazing performance of Akiko in winning the 2014 World Championships.  It also focuses on some of the mathematical and psychological aspects of three-roll endings in Backgammon. It highlights Akiko’s aggressive style as well as the twists and turns of outrageous fortune by which she arrived at the pinnacle of her sport.  Read more here.


07Oct2014 			LIA and Goldman Sachs Square off in Court		
While in the past few days Eid celebrations led to a slower pace of developments throughout Libya and the broader Middle Eastern region, today in London the Libyan Investment Agency (LIA) began its High Court $1bn action against Goldman Sachs. The case, as previously reported, aims to make the US investment bank accountable for the vast financial losses in which the LIA incurred following a series of high-risk derivative investments. A similar case for $1.5bn is expected to be brought forward by the LIA against the French Societe Generale in the next future.
You can read my take on this issue in a contribution to  Kit Chellel’s article for Bloomberg on the subject:


“At present the LIA are doing whatever is going to play well with the domestic Libyan public not necessarily what will win them the lawsuit,” said Jason Pack, a Cambridge University academic specializing in Libyan history and founder of the consulting firm Libya-Analysis.com.
“It’s very popular in Libya to say that Western companies took advantage of Libya in the Qaddafi period and were making money hand-over-fist,” Pack said in an e-mail. In fact, LIA employees were “as sophisticated as most Western finance professionals and had access to world-class advisers.” They “were aware how the game is played,” he said.



04Oct2014 			Is Misrata Beginning to Expand its Influence Beyond the Political Sphere?		
As the situation in western Libya stabilizes, Misratan elements seem to be taking full advantage of the new found stability to further consolidate their power in the economic sphere. Turkish Airlines has resumed chartered cargo flights to Misrata, two months after suspending all operations to Libya following the commencement of Operation Dawn. In addition, the schedule of commercial flights (all on Libyan carriers) from locations such as Casablanca, Tunis, Istanbul and Amman are now beginning to stabilize and there are also limited flights from Malta. Moreover, a weekly flight from London to Mitiga airport in Tripoli via Turkey has been initiated.
Possessing a reputation throughout the country for being a business savvy community, Misratans have been looking to build up capacity in their already efficient port to ensure that they remain an important player in Libyan commerce. In addition to the port and air travel developments, Misrata’s commitment to commerce can be seen in Libyan businessmen Bashar Ahmed’s completion of the Safari 2 Hotel. Considering the fragile security situation in Libya, the completion of such an ambitious project illustrates the entrepreneurial spirit of Misrata. Pictures of the project have been attached.
Having already consolidated power in Tripoli, it will be interesting to see how Misratan elements intend to advance their agenda in becoming the dominant political and economic force in the country. As a kind gesture, Misrata’s political elites have decided to conduct a prisoner swap with Zintan and release some of their Tawerghan prisoners in the spirit of the Eid Al-Adha celebrations. This shows that Misrata’s political elites recognize the need to negotiate and bargain with other stakeholders in the Libyan political sphere. Similarly, although Operation Dawn has on the whole condemned the internationally sponsored reconciliation talks in Ghadames, some Misratan political and business elements are angling for them to be supported. This means that many powerful actors have a reason to prevent a relapse into violence in Western Libya.


03Oct2014 			Is France Preparing A Ground Invasion in Libya?		
France is setting up a base in northern Niger as part of an operation aimed at stopping al-Qaida-linked militants from crisscrossing the Sahel-Sahara region between southern Libya and Mauritania, according to this VOA News article. Alawsat’s Libyan website, however, disclosed that a French diplomatic source was certain that Paris had no intention to intervene militarily in Libya
France has been the most vocal western superpower to condemn the Islamist presence in Libya, calling for the placement of Ansar Al-Sharia on the United Nations terror organization list. Paris, which has led efforts to push back Islamists in the region since intervening in its former colony Mali last year, redeployed troops across West Africa earlier this year to form a counter-terrorism force. Diplomatic sources estimate that about 300 fighters linked to al-Qaida’s North African arm AQIM are operating in southern Libya, a key point on smuggling and trafficking routes across the region. With Libya being awash in weapons, France is intent on protecting its commercial interests in its former colonial subjects of Algeria, Gabon and Senegal and ensuring that the Mediterranean remains a safe environment for commerce and trade.
It will be interesting to see if this latest deployment in Niger will evolve in the direction of the rumours — escalating into a full out ground presence in Libya. The French President Francois Hollande and Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, who have championed a political solution, insist on supporting the work of the United Nations and its envoy to Libya. With that being said, France would likely be the first major power to take action in Libya should a failure in the political dialogue lead to a destabilization of the Mediterranean.  With yesterday’s massive suicide attack in Benghazi, we may be reaching that point.

Share 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+LinkedIn 
  Recent Posts 
Review of Syria: A Recent History (14 May 2015)
Operation Idris (9 May 2015)
Negotiations Hit Yet Another Slump as Oil Sector Struggles (8 May 2015)
The July 2012 Libyan Election and the Origin of Post-Qadhafi Appeasement (29 Apr 2015)
All Eyes on Migrants as Political Deal Keeps Slipping Through (27 Apr 2015)
Milliband Puts His Foot in His Mouth on Libya (26 Apr 2015)
Are UK Failures in Libya to Blame for Mediterranean Migrant Crisis? (25 Apr 2015)
Migrant Issue on BBC 5 Live and Fan Mail (22 Apr 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Humanitarian Crisis In Sirte (22 Apr 2015)
Libya Dawn Repels Uprisings in Tripoli as Instability Plagues Libya (21 Apr 2015)
How to Solve the Crisis in the Mediterranean? (20 Apr 2015)
The Anglo-Senussi ‘War’ of 1915 – 17 and the Emergence of Modern Cyrenaica (17 Apr 2015)
Aiding the Assyrians Fight Against ISIS (16 Apr 2015)
Hawks Prevailing in Tobruk? Another ‘Lost’ Week for Libya (14 Apr 2015)
The ‘Oil Crescent’ is Pacified despite Tobruk’s New NOC (7 Apr 2015)
Delegations Back in Tripoli and Tobruk, Will the Agreement Stand? (1 Apr 2015)
Checks, Balances, and the Draft Agreement on the Political Transition in Libya (31 Mar 2015)
Haftar Holds the Key to Peace in Libya (26 Mar 2015)
Talks derailed again as Misratan Militias Face Jihadists (24 Mar 2015)
Smuggled Libya Gas Fuels Conflict (23 Mar 2015)
A Week of Waiting in Libya (16 Mar 2015)
Dialogue Resumes in Morocco as IS Militants Sweep Oil Fields (8 Mar 2015)
Why Picking Sides in Libya Won’t Work (6 Mar 2015)
ISIS Fighters Take Over Major Libyan Oilfields (5 Mar 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Explosion at ISIS-Controlled Hisba Building in Derna (4 Mar 2015)
Is This the Week That Makes or Breaks Libya? (2 Mar 2015)
Islamic State Will Flourish if the West Picks Sides in Libya (24 Feb 2015)
Russia Today Interview Explaining Why Libya is Where It is (24 Feb 2015)
Islamic State Gains Libya Foothold (24 Feb 2015)
HoR Suspend its Participation in UN Talks (23 Feb 2015)
Pack Interview with Cape Town Radio About Situation in Libya (20 Feb 2015)
Will Federalists Spoil the UN Negotiations’ Process? (17 Feb 2015)
The Islamic State Launches Another Offensive in Libya, What Next? (17 Feb 2015)
Egypt Launches Airstrikes in Derna After ISIS Beheads Coptic Christians (16 Feb 2015)
Libya’s Power Blocs are Fracturing (15 Feb 2015)
NY Times Editorial Pointing Out the Urgent Need For International Action in Libya (15 Feb 2015)
The Art of Seizing the Moment (Slava vs. Lars Part III) (10 Feb 2015)
Talks to Pay Symbolic Visit to Ghadames as Misratan Option Fails (9 Feb 2015)
Libya: Armed Politics and Regional Escalation (6 Feb 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Warplanes Strike Fajr Libya Positions in Bin Jawad (5 Feb 2015)
HoR Does Housekeeping by Shelving Political Isolation Law (4 Feb 2015)
Dialogue Continues in Geneva Despite Violence (30 Jan 2015)
Pack, Fitzgerald, Northern and Abdulrahman Al-Ageli to speak on Feb 9 at RUSI (29 Jan 2015)
At Least Eight Killed in Deadly Attack on Corinthia Hotel (28 Jan 2015)
Talks to Resume as Need for External Support Seems Now Inevitable (26 Jan 2015)
Do you require high quality analysis and forecasting on Libya, tailored to your organisation’s needs and individual interests? (21 Jan 2015)
How To End Libya’s War (21 Jan 2015)
Is the Tide Turning? Or Will Negotiations Bring Even More Divisions? (18 Jan 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Stopping Goods Seizure at Port of Benghazi and Airstrike Warnings for Misrata Airport and Seaport (14 Jan 2015)
As the State Collapses, Rival Blocks Agree to Talks in Geneva (12 Jan 2015)
Concerns grow that Libya is becoming a terrorist hot spot (10 Jan 2015)
Ageela Salah calls for a political solution as Greek tanker gets attacked (6 Jan 2015)
Libya in 2015: The Scramble for Oil and Scenarios for Transition (2 Jan 2015)
Libya continues to slide down a spiral of violence (31 Dec 2014)
Stalemate in the Oil Crescent? (19 Dec 2014)
The Arab Spring, Four Years On (18 Dec 2014)
Force Majeure Declared over Sidra and Ras Lanuf as Fighting Rages on (16 Dec 2014)
Libya Dawn Offensive Against the Oil Ports Kicks Off (13 Dec 2014)
Second Round of Negotiations Postponed Amid Leon’s Efforts (9 Dec 2014)
Different Western Perspectives to Foreign Mediation in Libya (8 Dec 2014)
Libya’s UN Talks to Resume Next Tuesday? (4 Dec 2014)
Tobruk Goes to Vienna as Haftar Describes Unrealistic Rosy Picture (30 Nov 2014)
All Out Fighting for Tripoli Resumes, the Demise of the Negotiations Illusion? (26 Nov 2014)
Post Supreme Court Ruling Uncertainty Continues in Divided Libya (19 Nov 2014)
Publication of Updated Post-Nov 6 Supreme Court Decision Report. (13 Nov 2014)
Questions from a Libyan living in Benghazi (13 Nov 2014)
Car Bombs Yield Further Escalation in Libya (13 Nov 2014)
Bomb Targets Thinni-Leon Meeting amid Oil Sector Setbacks (9 Nov 2014)
Supreme Court Dismisses House of Representatives (7 Nov 2014)
Introducing Arabic Articles about Libya Translated into English (5 Nov 2014)
The Battle for Oil and Money Quietly Continues (3 Nov 2014)
Review of The Concise Guide to Wine and Blind Tasting (3 Nov 2014)
Do We Need a New Negotiation Initiative? (30 Oct 2014)
Engagement Underway to Bolster Political Deal (26 Oct 2014)
Army Ordered to Move towards Tripoli as Tribal Leaders Gather in Egypt (22 Oct 2014)
Interview with Jason Pack and Mattia Toaldo on Voice of Russia (21 Oct 2014)
UK Backgammon Final Article cover in the Independent Newspaper (21 Oct 2014)
Libya: The war nobody can win (20 Oct 2014)
Haftar Goes All-In with Large Scale Assault on Benghazi (18 Oct 2014)
Egypt Intensifies Effort to Eradicate Militant Islamists in Eastern Libya (16 Oct 2014)
Libya Back on the Brink (9 Oct 2014)
On Proxies and Peace Making Perspectives in Libya (9 Oct 2014)
The Tsunami hits Monte Carlo, the Hobgoblin of Continuity, and Ideas to Reinvigorate the World Championship (7 Oct 2014)
Genius and Grace in Monte Carlo (7 Oct 2014)
LIA and Goldman Sachs Square off in Court (7 Oct 2014)
Is Misrata Beginning to Expand its Influence Beyond the Political Sphere? (4 Oct 2014)
Is France Preparing A Ground Invasion in Libya? (3 Oct 2014)
Ghadames to Host UNSMIL Brokered Talks (28 Sep 2014)
How to Give a Gammonish Recube (Slava vs. Lars Part II) (28 Sep 2014)
Al-Thinni’s New Cabinet Approved amid Preparations for Negotiation Talks (24 Sep 2014)
HoR Rejects Thinni’s Cabinet, Libya Dawn Tries to Restore Life in the Capital (21 Sep 2014)
Let the Scramble for Oil Money Begin (19 Sep 2014)
Is Operation Dignity Receiving Further Air Support from the UAE? (17 Sep 2014)
Why Scottish Independence is Bad for Libya (11 Sep 2014)
Libya: Stalemate or Calm before the (Return of the) Storm? (9 Sep 2014)
Is Libya the New Battleground for the Islamist-Nationalist Proxy War? (9 Sep 2014)
Thinni Given PM Mandate as Libya Dawn Tries to Put Facts on the Ground (2 Sep 2014)
Thinni Resigns Again, Tries to Breathe Life into HoR (29 Aug 2014)
Is the HoR Losing the Internal Battle for Legitimacy? (27 Aug 2014)
Latest Strikes Make Libya the New Proxy War in The Region (26 Aug 2014)
Is Operation Dawn Forces’s Tripoli Success The Beginning of the End or The Beginning of An Escalation In Conflict? (24 Aug 2014)
As HoR Continues its Work, Arab League Shuns Call for Foreign Intervention (21 Aug 2014)
Covert Intervention? Air Strike in Tripoli Sparks Anxiety Over Foreign Role in Libya (18 Aug 2014)
HoR Tries Raising its Profile by Pushing for Intervention and Disbandment of Militias (14 Aug 2014)
Toppling Qaddafi: Libya and the Limits of Liberal Intervention (14 Aug 2014)
Libya at a Turning Point? HoR Agrees to Direct Presidential Elections as Fighting Continues Unabated (13 Aug 2014)
Obama Discusses Libya With Thomas L. Friedman (11 Aug 2014)
The NYT on the Impact of the 2012 Benghazi Assault on US Strikes in Iraq (9 Aug 2014)
Despite Turmoil Libya’s Oil Production Remains Steady (8 Aug 2014)
Bernard-Henri Levy Urges The West to Act Before the Clock Strikes Midnight (8 Aug 2014)
Algeria and Egypt Defuse Intervention Talks as HoR Starts Its Works by Ordering Ceasefire (7 Aug 2014)
Elders Hope to Facilitate an Agreement in Cyrenaica As GNC President Dismisses HoR As ‘Unconstitutional’ (6 Aug 2014)
House of Representatives Postpones First Meeting Amid Violence and Displacements (3 Aug 2014)
Escalating Violence in Libya Necessitates International Mediation (1 Aug 2014)
Ansar Al-Sharia Claim Islamic Emirate in Benghazi (31 Jul 2014)
Libya on the Brink: How to Stop the Fighting (30 Jul 2014)
Libya Back in the Limelight, Will Actors on The Ground Capitalize from it? (30 Jul 2014)
No Eid Celebrations as Libya Descends into Chaos (29 Jul 2014)
Calls for Dialogue Fall on Deaf Ears as Militias Get Entrenched in Battle (27 Jul 2014)
Will the House of Representatives be nipped in the bud by ongoing violence? (25 Jul 2014)
Violence in the Capital Escalates as The Government Struggles to Sell Crude (25 Jul 2014)
Are the Parliamentary Elections a Precursor for More Violence? (23 Jul 2014)
As Fighting in the Captial Intensifies Zintanis Hold Airport (22 Jul 2014)
Are The Islamists as Organized as The Media Portrays Them to Be? (21 Jul 2014)
Islamist-Nationalist Rift Intensifies as Another Prominent Female Activist is Assassinated and Airport Workers Strike (17 Jul 2014)
Damage to the Airport and Aircrafts Are a Big Blow to a Weakened Business Sector (15 Jul 2014)
Is Tripoli Witnessing A Civil War between Misrata and Zintan or is this a minor clash between rogue brigades? (15 Jul 2014)
Despite Strikes in Brega, Ras Lanuf and Sidra Set to Open (14 Jul 2014)
Jadhran Hands over Port and Signs of Grand Bargain Emerging (4 Jul 2014)
The House of Representatives Election (26 Jun 2014)
Election Day Guide (25 Jun 2014)
Mary Fitzgerald’s Interview with Hiftar (24 Jun 2014)
Turks and Qataris Ordered to Leave Eastern Libya (23 Jun 2014)
Call for Part Time Consultants (21 Jun 2014)
Three Things to Watch for in the Libya Elections (21 Jun 2014)
Libya’s Faustian Bargains: The Hardcopy (12 Jun 2014)
Setting the Record Straight on the US’s role in Libya (10 Jun 2014)
Maiteg Accepts Supreme Court Decision and Resigns (10 Jun 2014)
Maetig Seizes Prime Ministry Building (3 Jun 2014)
Thinni Vows to Stay On (29 May 2014)
Ansar al-Sharia Mishandles the Media War (28 May 2014)
A Sober Evaluation of Hiftar’s Movement (If we can call it that) (23 May 2014)
The World According to Hiftar (23 May 2014)
“Leaders” of Libyan Army “Suspend” GNC (19 May 2014)
Game Theory, Kidnappings and the Pitfalls of Appeasement in Libya (17 May 2014)
Libya: Swinging Pendulums and Political Crematoria (16 May 2014)
Jordanian Ambassador Freed After Libya Kidnap (14 May 2014)
Libya’s Unexpected Strength (8 May 2014)
Ides of March Cambridge Invitational Tournament – March 2014 (8 May 2014)
Who’s for Prime Minister? (7 May 2014)
Jordan to Release Libyan Militant in Exchange for Ambassador (29 Apr 2014)
Invitation to Launching of Atlantic Council Report “Libya’s Faustian Bargains” (29 Apr 2014)
Libya Lifts Force Majeure on Second Oil Port (28 Apr 2014)
Rejoice and Export Crude, ya Libiyya (7 Apr 2014)
Libyan rebels and Government Agree to Gradually Reopen Occupied Oil Ports (7 Apr 2014)
Some April First Foolery Libyan Style (5 Apr 2014)
Libya Sees “Good Intentions” in Oil Port Talks; Rebel Split Seen (4 Apr 2014)
Jadhran’s Supporters Still Being Paid until November (2 Apr 2014)
Crimea as Europe’s Existential Question (28 Mar 2014)
Zeidan Speaks to Christian Amanpour (26 Mar 2014)
ENI Talks Gas with Libya, Shoring Up Non-Russian Supply (24 Mar 2014)
Lars Trabolt vs Vyachslav Pryadkin  in The WC Final — PART 1: Limiting Gammonish Volitility (24 Mar 2014)
Libya Leads World in Traffic Deaths Per Capita (20 Mar 2014)
Iraqi Insurgency Tactics Being Used by Jihadists in Libya (17 Mar 2014)
Sometimes It Is Tough Being a Pirate (17 Mar 2014)
Consensus Principle and Regional Development Budget Approved by Congress (13 Mar 2014)
Libya’s Prime Minister Ousted in Chaos Over Tanker (12 Mar 2014)
Libyan Oil Stolen at Sidra (9 Mar 2014)
The Future of Libya: Is ‘Pakistanisation’ a Foregone Conclusion? (8 Mar 2014)
An Absurd Connection between Ukraine and Libya (8 Mar 2014)
Possible Presidential Election? (6 Mar 2014)
GNC Members’ Cars Burned as Protestors Vandalise Congress (3 Mar 2014)
The Battle for Benghazi (1 Mar 2014)
Constitutional Committee Election Final Turnout Put at Half Million (24 Feb 2014)
45 Percent Turnout in Constitutional Committee Elections but 13 Seats Cannot be Declared (22 Feb 2014)
Too Cool for a Coup, Part Two (21 Feb 2014)
New Alignments between Zintan, GNC, Islamists and the Population (21 Feb 2014)
To Coup, Or Not to Coup? (16 Feb 2014)
Jadhran’s Brother to Be Returned to Libya after Arrest in UAE (13 Feb 2014)
Libya vs Western Bankers (13 Feb 2014)
Correcting the Course of Libya’s Revolution (Part 1/2) (12 Feb 2014)
Even Federalism Won’t Placate the Federalists (11 Feb 2014)
Zeidan’s Newly Proposed Cabinet has Been Rejected (11 Feb 2014)
Dunks and Dodging Bullets: Americans Chase Hoop Dreams in Libya (9 Feb 2014)
Protests Against the Extention of the GNC’s Mandate Passed Peacefully (8 Feb 2014)
The Feb 7 Extension of GNC issue (6 Feb 2014)
Libya PM Threatens Eastern Protesters with Troops (5 Feb 2014)
Is Jadhran’s Support Waning? (1 Feb 2014)
Libya: Date Set for Vote to Select Constitutional Panel (31 Jan 2014)
Madagascar’s Radio DJ President Jockeys for Power (28 Jan 2014)
Power Cut Misery to Continue Until Warshefana Clashes Resolved (28 Jan 2014)
Sebha Still Awaiting Military Support (28 Jan 2014)
Egyptian Embassy Staff ‘Seized’ in Libya (26 Jan 2014)
Libya Chaos Worsens (10 Jan 2014)
Killings of Briton and New Zealander Underscore Libya’s Security Breakdown (4 Jan 2014)
Anna Baldinetti looking for research assistant (3 Jan 2014)
Libya in 2014??? (31 Dec 2013)
Khattala with the Candlestick in the Diplomatic Mission (30 Dec 2013)
Happy Libyan Independence Day and Merry Christmas (24 Dec 2013)
Libya Probes Deadly Army Checkpoint Bombing (23 Dec 2013)

 




		©
						
			LibyaAnalysis.com  |  Site by Round Hex





