November | 2014 | Libya Analysis
November | 2014 | Libya Analysis

Libya AnalysisHome
Consulting

Consulting Services
Mission
Clients
Team


Pack’s Publications

Op Eds
Scholarly Book Reviews
Peer Review Publications
Media Appearances
The 2011 Libyan Uprisings: The Book
Backgammon Articles


CV
Public Lectures
About Jason Pack
Contact
Viewing posts from: November, 2014




Categories 
Adventure (13)

Africa (5)

Backgammon Articles (10)

Bespoke Products (1)

Blog Posts (87)

Egypt (30)

Featured Posts (95)

Federalism (77)

GNC (140)

House of Commons Briefings (6)

House of Representatives (52)

ICC (6)

Intervention (129)

Iran (5)

Kurdistan (KRG) (6)

Libyan Army/Militias (225)

Libyan Business/Investment (93)

Libyan Elections (106)

Maghreb (7)

Negotiations (11)

News (313)

Oil (65)

Pack's Publications (167)

Forthcoming Book (19)

Media Appearances (43)

Op Eds (84)

Peer Review Publications (5)

Scholarly Book Reviews (9)



ports (31)

Qaddafi (35)

Salafis (49)

Syria (13)

Terrorism (43)

Tuareg (5)

Tunisia (6)

UK Politics (2)

US Politics (63)

USLBA (4)

Wine (1)


Featured Posts Show All
Archives 
May 2015 (3)
April 2015 (13)
March 2015 (10)
February 2015 (15)
January 2015 (12)
December 2014 (8)
November 2014 (11)
October 2014 (15)
September 2014 (10)
August 2014 (17)
July 2014 (15)
June 2014 (10)
May 2014 (11)
April 2014 (8)
March 2014 (15)
February 2014 (15)
January 2014 (8)
December 2013 (11)
November 2013 (8)
October 2013 (12)
September 2013 (7)
August 2013 (6)
July 2013 (6)
June 2013 (10)
May 2013 (10)
April 2013 (8)
March 2013 (5)
February 2013 (9)
January 2013 (14)
December 2012 (5)
November 2012 (7)
October 2012 (14)
September 2012 (10)
August 2012 (8)
July 2012 (13)
June 2012 (20)
May 2012 (4)
April 2012 (3)
March 2012 (5)
February 2012 (4)
January 2012 (2)
December 2011 (4)
November 2011 (4)
October 2011 (9)
September 2011 (7)
August 2011 (2)
June 2011 (1)
April 2011 (2)
March 2011 (1)
February 2011 (1)



30Nov2014 			Tobruk Goes to Vienna as Haftar Describes Unrealistic Rosy Picture		
In an interview with the Italian newspaper ‘Il Corriere della Sera’, Khalifa Haftar described a rosy, albeit contradictory, picture of the ongoing Libya crisis. Talking to Francesco Battistini, Haftar claims that his troops are firmly in control of approximately 80% of Benghazi and that he has set himself a deadline of 15 December to bring the Tobruk-based institutions back in the main Cyrenaican city. However, after claiming that the battles for Derna and Tripoli are going to be much easier than that for Benghazi, and that it might take less than three months to retake the capital city, Haftar complains that the international community in general and Western states in particular have been too hesitant in their support for him. Operation Dignity, he states, has so far received only old weaponry and technology from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the UAE and Algeria and demands to be provided wit external support along the lines of thar provided to Kurdish fighters in Northern Syria. In the rest of the interview, Haftar reinforces the framing of the current crisis as a battle between moderate and government affiliated forces vs radical Islamists ones. He also adds a number of statements likely to resonate with the Italian and Western public about the proximity of Derna’s costs to Italy and about the risk of radical militants’ infiltrations in the old continent through the route of illegal immigration.
For lack of major developments on the military front, however, the story of the week was the position taken by the OPEC over which Libyan delegation to invite at its latest Vienna meeting. Unsurprisingly but quite foolishly, OPEC fell in line with the international consensus over recognising Tobruk’s government and institutions. Although they could have refused to have any Libyan representative at all, their actual move is likely to reinforce internal and external claims that the Supreme Court ruling has been influenced by the presence of Libya Dawn forces in Tripoli. In an interview to Reuters on Wednesday, Libya’s Oil Minister in the al-Hassi government, Mashallah Zwai, threatened legal actions in case his representatives would not receive an invitation to attend OPEC’s meeting in Vienna. Much like Haftar’s proclamations of victory, however, these threats are likely to remain only on paper, especially in light of the promises made by Zwai that all contracts and deals would be respected and that its government would not try to hijack the Central Bank any further. The Tripoli government wants to be seen as playing nice so as to avoid sanctions against itself, while also wishing to pursue the contradictory goals of control over Libya’s institutions.
Looking at Haftar’s and Zwai’s interviews, the most striking common trait emerging from both is the short-sighted nature of strategies currently employed in Tripoli and Tobruk. In the midst of failed/abortive negotiations and continuous violence, it appears that both sides are quietly hoping to receive an unlikely but equally fundamental boost from the international community to “win the war”, either through the reception of modern weaponry and tactical support for the Tubroq side or through widespread political recognition and engagement for the Tripoli side. In light of these delusional tactics, is now the time for Libya’s partners to use the stick rather than the carrot to reign the fighting in?
This last question is all the more pressing in light of the disturbing reports focusing on the human costs of protracted fighting and instability in Libya published this week by Human Rights Watch and by the Danish Institute Against Torture (Dignity). Whilst Human Rights Watch focuses on the current events marring life in Derna, the Dignity report focuses on the effects of torture and violence in post-revolutionary Libya and presents a very bleak picture with regards to mental health problems.

The data collection was completed in October 2013. 2,692 household interviews were included in the national survey. Every fifth household responded to having a family member disappeared, 11% reported having a household member arrested and 5% reported one killed. Of those arrested, 46% reported beatings, 20% positional torture or suspensions, 16% suffocation and from 3 to 5% reported having suffered sexual, thermal or electrical torture. In short our data support the allegations that widespread human rights violations and gross human rights violations have taken place in Libya.
The consequences at the level of the population are massive: 29% of individuals report anxiety and 30% report depression, while PTSD symptoms were reported by 6%. These results indicate that the respondents at the time of interview could still be in an acute or post-acute stage and have yet to reach the post-trauma stage, hence we predict that the prevalence of post-traumatic stress reactions will increase over time, if or when the internal conflict subsides.

You can read the whole report from the Danish Institute Against Torture here.


26Nov2014 			All Out Fighting for Tripoli Resumes, the Demise of the Negotiations Illusion?		
On Saturday November 22nd, Operation Dignity forces announced the start of a new military offensive to retake control of Tripoli and surrounding areas. On this occasion, Operation Dignity spokesperson Mohammed al-Hijazi announced that all airports and maritime ports under control of Fajr Libya forces, with the exception of those of Zwara, would be considered legitimate targets due to their use as weapons supply points by Misratan forces and their allies. This declaration came a few hours before Zintani forces finally gained the upper hand in the month-long battle for the strategic town of Kikla, located south of Tripoli, thus setting the stage for a renewed battle for the control of the capital.
Since then, two airstrikes have been carried out over Mitiga airport, leading to its closure and to the re-destination of commercial flights from Tripoli to Misrata. After the sporadic strikes carried out during last summer by unidentified forces likely to be connected to the UAE and Egypt, the military branch of the Tobruk establishment has newly raised the profile of its (aerial) attacks in the West in a potentially devastating way.
To be sure, it remains to be seen whether Operation Dignity forces will have the actual operational capability to follow through with imposing a blockade on all airports and maritime ports in the hands of Fajr Libya. Nonetheless, these developments could likely prove to be the last fatal straw to any lingering hope of achieving a negotiated solution to this crisis. Clearly, after the ruling of Libya’s Supreme Court on November 6th that declared the HoR illegitimate, the Tobruk-based establishment has fully embraced the military option as the only feasible way to bring the current crisis to a favorable and definitive end.
A further proof of the military-oriented approach taken by Thinni’s government and what remains of the HoR is well displayed by the decision to re-instate Khalifa Haftar and Saqr Geroushi into the Libyan Army. Besides sending a clear message to the rival al-Hassi government, that quickly proceeded to declare a new phase of war against them, the HoR and Thinni are increasingly putting Libya’s international partners and UNSMIL’s Bernardino Leon in the uncomfortable position of being seen has tacitly supporting this military escalation on the basis of the international recognition granted to the HoR and its government.
As hopes of bringing relevant Libyan stakeholders to the same table dramatically falter, we are left wondering what approach and strategy will be employed next to tackle this crisis by the broad international community (minus countries supporting proxies in Libya) over the course of the coming weeks. In light of these recent developments, it is difficult not to lend an ear to the interview to Professor Andreas Dittman, published today by Deutsche Welle, who strongly puts Libyans in charge of their recent miseries:

The basic conditions for development are actually very good for Libya. Of all the six countries involved in the Arab Spring, Libya has by far the best conditions. The country has a relatively small population, just over 6 million inhabitants. In addition, Libya has oil reserves that will last for another six-and-a-half decades.
(…) Any political successes – the democratic elections, successfully putting a president into office – have been torpedoed by the militias. When they don’t agree with certain election results, they refuse to recognize their legitimacy and try to impose their ideas by force.
That is to say, Libya itself is to blame? Yes. Of course, there were external factors that contributed to Gadhafi’s relatively quick toppling from power. But what Libya is currently doing wrong is, in a sense, homemade – that is to say, its own fault. Given the current developments, we can’t always refer solely to external influences. At the moment, Libyans are destroying their own country.



19Nov2014 			Post Supreme Court Ruling Uncertainty Continues in Divided Libya		
Almost two weeks after the ruling of Libya’s Supreme Court, which declared the House of Representative illegitimate, the country’s rival institutions and actors appear to be still trying to come to terms with the newly established scenario. In a way, of course, the ruling has leveled differences between the two establishments in Tobruk and Tripoli, squashing any internal legitimacy the HoR had left outside of its environs and putting its international partners in an odd spot. This is well reflected by the hesitant response and limited engagement Libya’s international partners have tactically employed since November 6th.
On the other hand, the picture is not necessarily so rosy for the al-Hassi government and its allies either. After a few timid demonstrations in various Tripoli neighborhoods, clashes erupted during last week at Mitiga airport, leading to a temporary shutdown of operations. The GNC has not been officially re-instated by the Court ruling, and several of its members have rejected the idea of reconvening within it. Furthermore, the suicide car bombings operations undertook in Baida, Benghazi and Tobruk last week, alongside the acknowledgment made by self-proclaimed Caliph Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi of a IS-recognised Libyan Emirate, make the partnership between Fajr Libya and radical Jihadist groups in the country all the more controversial and uncomfortable. Lastly, to further reinvigorate the narrative employed by the HoR-aligned Operation Dignity forces of a fight between them and international groups of terrorist, on Sunday, the newly established IS-aligned ‘Barqa Governorate Media Branch’ has published obituaries for a number of suicide bombers who died in Benghazi and appear to have come mostly from Egypt and Tunisia, rather than Libya itself. There are also many reports about Derna as a city being controlled by ISIS in the wake of various posting of media statements.  See Time here and CNN here.  I don’t however agree with Benotman or Zelin who argue that Derna is now a province of the Islamic State of that it follows Baghdadi. All that is happening is some Islamists are trying to govern territory and outflank other Islamists so they look up to ISIS given its success at holding territory and use this to outflank the Abu Sleem Brigade.
As talks of international mediation appears to be overpowered by the noise of battle, Libya is more and more in dire need of a positive shock to break the dangerous deadlock it finds itself in. Whilst only a few weeks ago al-Hassi went as far as suggesting that a new set of nation-wide elections could be a solution to the current crisis, his tone appears now too emboldened by the court’s ruling to be willing to restart the transitory phase from scratch, leaving all Libya analysts and observers hesitant as to what could possibly come next to positively shake the ground.  Also that the al-Hassi government has praised Ansar Sharia for its propagation of the faith shows just how fluid and crazy the situation is and that the al-Hassi government needs all the allies it can get no matter what their ideology. I take this last statement as showing Libya Dawn’s weakness rather than its strength.


13Nov2014 			Publication of Updated Post-Nov 6 Supreme Court Decision Report.		

I wanted to share with you my latest think tank report about Libya which was just updated on November 9th to reflect the crisis of legitimacy in Libya politics and the multiplicity of international interventions currently underway. You may read it in its entirety at the following link and please feel free to quote/cite it.  http://tonyblairfaithfoundation.org/religion-geopolitics/country-profiles/libya/situation-report


The report has two primary conceptual conclusions:

1. Libya is not witnessing a civil war; it is in a state of “highly armed politics” as defined by Emile Simpson’s paradigm.

2.  As the report was commissioned by the Tony Blair Faith Foundation, it expressly treats the religious dimension of the current conflict. The report concludes that the polarization into two blocs in Libya is not primarily driven by religious fissures and that thinking about the conflict as Islamist vs. anti-Islamists is a flawed paradigm and we should think of the two blocs as a pro-lustration bloc and an anti-lustration bloc. This model is far more explanatory for why certain actors support certain blocs.

I believe that international actors must incorporate these conceptual insights into their dealings with Libya and that so doing will open up new avenues for mediation efforts focused on forging a national unity government, a return to the transitional process, and binding all the major factions to respect the constitutional referendum.


Relating to the Supreme Court decision I write that

The extent of international support that the HoR will receive is currently in flux as the Libyan Supreme Court ruled that the seventh constitutional amendment issued in March 2014 was unconstitutional and hence so were the June elections that brought the HoR to power. The HoR has rejected the ruling claiming it was made at ‘gunpoint’ in Tripoli.” and “The Supreme Court ruling, while complicating matters, could represent a window of opportunity. In fact, the ruling could serve ‘to level the playing field’ between the two camps and make it easier for international actors to engage all parties as potentially legitimate political actors. According to Mohamed Eljarh, nonresident fellow at the Atlantic Council’s Rafik Hariri Center, “The international community’s next step is key. Despite the UNSMIL statement that it is studying the Supreme Court’s ruling with its international partners,the EU ambassadors to Libya met with the Minister of Health in al-Thinni’s government in Tunis shortly after the ruling, suggesting it is business as usual with the Tobruk government”. For the international community to be able to play a positive role, they must show a greater inclination to engage with the Tripoli government, especially in the wake of the court’s decision.

I, therefore, council the international community to

Despite this new potential for division, all domestic and international actors should agree on the form of a ‘National Unity’ government incorporating all the major political factions  (MLA, Muslim Brotherhood, HoR members, Liberal-leaning technocrats, Berbers/Amazigh, Federalists, key tribal leaders, Tebu, and Toureg).  Such an agreement would bypass the need for each actor to definitively ‘take sides’ by choosing to recognize one governing body as opposed to the other.

To read the report click here.


13Nov2014 			Questions from a Libyan living in Benghazi		
Today a very intelligent Libyan living in Benghazi wrote me these questions. If he doesn’t know the answers, who does… if you do please write me:
1.  Concerning the supreme court ruling nullifying the HoR. The
international response has been vague. Do you think they’re waiting
for a military end to see which side they back, or will they back a
particular side soon?
2. About the HoR, assuming it’s still considered legitimate, of the
200 members, how many are actually attending and what is the legal
minimum for decision making? In one of your articles you mentioned 102
attending the vote on the removal of the Director of the Libyan
Central Bank. Surely that’s well below the minimum?
3. Who controls the Libyan Central Bank? Today the prime minister Omar
Al-Hassy outlined an ambitious plan to loan upto 120,000 interest free
dinars to help young Libyans build their future. Is that even possible
considering the diminished oil output and diminishing foreign
reserves?  Does this imply he has control of the Central Bank or is he
just hoping to win people over? The Central Bank is in Tripoli, so
it’s tough to imagine the HoR having control over it.
4. How soon do you think the embassies will reopen in Tripoli assuming
the conflict doesn’t resolve (and assuming Tripoli stays safe).


13Nov2014 			Car Bombs Yield Further Escalation in Libya		
For the second time in less than a week, Libyan cities and areas under formal control of the Tobruk-base establishment have been targeted by car bombs attacks. On Wednesday, three car bombs were detonated in Tobruk, Baida and Benghazi respectively. A fourth car bomb attack in Tobruk was reportedly foiled by security forces. Most disturbingly, the successful bomb attack in Tobruk appears to have been the result of a suicide attack deliberately carried out in the middle of a crowded road junction. Furthermore, in what appears to have been a retaliatory attack, airstrikes were carried out in the afternoon over Derna, with reports conflicting about the exact targets of the strikes.
Wednesday’s multiple bombings represent yet another element of the clearly escalating pattern marring Libya’s crisis. Although the full-fledged ‘civil war’ label has not been used yet to discuss the situation in the country, the employment of indiscriminate asymmetric tactics and retaliatory attacks could very well prove to be the last push needed to let the country slide further down the implosion path.
Meanwhile, in light of escalating violence, declining oil production and inconclusive negotiation attempts, talks of a military intervention in the form of a peacekeeping mission are starting to resurface again. Professor Dirk Vandewalle argued today on The New York Times about the necessity for European countries to return to protect the EU ‘soft underbelly’ and set up a peacekeeping force to allow the establishment of functioning institutions.

What Libya needs instead is a European peacekeeping force that would shield the fledgling government from the various armed groups currently contesting its power, and one another, and allow it to rebuild state institutions.
(…) Dialogue is moribund, and no amount of diplomatic cajoling can revive it. Several Western countries, including the United States, as well as the United Nations Support Mission in Libya, which was established in 2011 to guide the country’s post-Qaddafi transition, have made various efforts to bring the factions to talks. These have repeatedly failed, however, because no one can offer the militias, which are flush with weapons and money, enough incentive to cooperate.
Only the presence of an international peacekeeping force can make a difference today. The U.N. support mission was never meant to be such a force; it was designed to help build institutions of governance. And the United Nations Security Council cannot expand its mandate. Russia, which accused the West of wrongfully extending the U.N. support mission’s ambit beyond the protection of civilians during the 2011 conflict, would veto any resolution calling for the mission’s transformation into an intervention force. The United States government, for its part, has no appetite for sending more American boots on the ground, particularly as it pulls troops out of Afghanistan and struggles to forestall the advances of Sunni Islamists in Iraq.



09Nov2014 			Bomb Targets Thinni-Leon Meeting amid Oil Sector Setbacks		
A meeting between Tobruk-based PM Abdallah al-Thinni and Head of UNSMIL Bernardino Leon was targeted today by a car bomb in Shahat. No victims were reported so far, even though at least ten bystanders were wounded by the explosion. Most worryingly, the meeting was supposed to take place in the nearby city of Baida, but was moved to Shahat only briefly before its scheduled time due to security concerns. This seems to suggest not only a breach of security procedures in the areas supposedly under control of the internationally recognized institutions, but also the presence of well placed informants of antagonist groups in the security apparatus of the Tobruk-based administration. Both Thinni’s government and the UNSMIL have quickly issued statements reaffirming their commitment to seek a political and peaceful solution to the ongoing crisis despite this terrorist attack.
To make things worse, especially for the country’s strained finances, during the past week the oil and ports sectors were marred by a series of setbacks. First, the el-Sharara oil field was stormed by gunmen, rumored to be Tuareg fighters affiliated with Misratan forces, who forced the oilfield’s production to stop. Then, news emerged about the ongoing blockade at Hariga’s port, where a tanker has been prevented from loading oil for the past three days. The block is enforced by members of the local security forces in response to the missed payments of their salaries during the past few months. Lastly, the El Fil oilfield near Murzuq was also forced to stop its production on Sunday due to security concerns and failures in the provision of electricity.
It is worth noting that the El Sharara and El Fil oilfields account respectively for 200,000 bpd and 130,000 bpd, while Hariga’s port has an export capacity of up to 120,000 bpd. Therefore, even though reserves in refineries connected to blocked oilfields are still high and optimism permeates stakeholders statements, Libya’s oil output is poised to be hit by a strong decrease in the medium term if these issues are not quickly resolved.
All in all, the past week seems to have pushed Libya into an even deeper and more complex crisis than the one we had before. To get a broader overview of what the past few days have meant for the country and see how theye relate to the broader international arena, you can head over to The Telegraph and read this article from Richard Spencer and David Blair which contains my contribution:

Jason Pack, from the consulting group Libya Analysis, said that outside backing was driving both sides in Libya’s civil war into ideologically more hardline positions. Gen Haftar and his allies were “flaunting their anti-Islamist credentials” in order to win international support. Meanwhile “waving the banner of the [Muslim] Brotherhood or jihad has drawn recruits and Qatari money for the Misurata-led alliance,” wrote Mr Pack.
Experts believe that Qatar and the other outside players are making it even harder to resolve Libya’s conflict by negotiation. “This intervention by foreign countries – despite signing up to agreements saying they would not intervene – is unhelpful because it’s encouraging each side to believe there is a military solution to the problem,” said Sir Richard Dalton, a former British Ambassador to Libya.



07Nov2014 			Supreme Court Dismisses House of Representatives		
The long awaited ruling of Libya’s Supreme Court over the legitimacy of the gathering of the House of Representatives in Tobruk came out on Thursday as a shocker. The Supreme Court, in fact, invalidated the entire legislative and elective process leading to the establishment of the House of Representatives on the ground that the committee instituted to organize it breached the country’s provisional constitution.
What was seen by many as an opportunity to put an end to, or somehow curb, the duplication of institutions and facilitate the negotiation process has instead lead to possibly even more uncertainty. In the Misratan and Fajr Libya camp, of course, the news was very well welcomed. Politicians aligned with the camp of the al-Hassi government have rushed to underline the nullifying effect that this ruling has over all acts and decisions taken by the supposedly now-defunct House of Representatives.
On the other hand, the HoR and politicians and representatives broadly aligned with the Tobruk camp have quickly rebuffed the ruling. Firstly, the HoR rejected the ruling appealing to the legitimacy it derives from its election at the hands of ‘the Libyan people’. Secondly, it is argued from the Hor camp, the ruling is illegitimate because it was proclaimed at gunpoint. The Supreme Court is located in Tripoli, a city firmly under control of the Fajr Libya camp and which is very much controlled through the rule of militias rather than the rule of law, despite proclaims and initiatives trying to demonstrate the opposite.  Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly in this situation, the Supreme Court went out of its way and scope of competences by ruling over the legitimacy of the February Committee. As a matter of fact, until the ruling was issued today, observers expected the court to rule over the legitimacy of the Tobruk location and members of the HoR camp argue that this renders the ruling invalid.
As stated by the newly appointed Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs, this ruling is clearly not encouraging for the future of Libya and goes contrary to the hope of those who wished that the Supreme Court would end this political stalemate and seal the transfer of power between the rival chambers. Whilst it is still to early to tell how things will settle in the medium term, it seems likely that the duplication of institutions will continue unabated, thus confirming the paramount role of militias and armed branches in both camps and giving even more relevance to the developments on the military fronts. Most importantly, all actors should work to make sure that this ruling does not reinforce centrifugal and separatist tendencies beyond the point of no return.


05Nov2014 			Introducing Arabic Articles about Libya Translated into English		
Due to a new partnership between Libya-Analysis.com and Industry Arabic, this blog will attempt to host a relevant article about some aspect of Libya’s economy and politics translated from a major Arabic source such as al-Wasat or al-Hayat or a series of relevant tweets.  This should give Libya-Analysis.com much added functionality and dynamism as English-language sources are not suffecient to grasp developments in Libya, particularly at the present moment as most reporters and foreign experts cannot visit the country due to the security situation.
Without further ado, the first article gives us a little bit of insight into the inner workings of a local council. It deals with the Sirte local council which is undergoing some changes as Ansar Sharia are coming under threat there as the Misratans wish to kick them out and make the council loyal to Operation Dawn.  The Second article is a little out of date but very interesting as it deals with the closure of the Jalu and Abu Tifl field by protestors.
Enjoy. And I hope to be able to bring more of this content to you my readers on a regular basis possibly every tuesday or wednesday.
Source: http://www.alwasat.ly/ar/news/libya/44422/
Sirte Local Council Discusses City Service and Security Problems
Sirte – Al-Wasat – Mohammed Ali – 28 October 2014
The Sirte Local Council convened Tuesday in an emergency session to discuss a number of security and service provision problems facing the city.
The meeting attendees included executive sector officials, executives of electricity companies, administrative and service centers, Urban Planning and Passports & Nationality officials, the Sirte Crisis Committee, head of the Authority for Manmade River Water Investment in the Central Region, and the designated head of the Union of Sirte Revolutionaries.
A Sirte media official told Al-Wasat that the attendees discussed issues related to water, sanitation, anticipated housing projects, and infrastructure.
The Council heard the reports of the sector coordinators on the current year and the constraints facing each sector, which include security, and the encroachments on state owned lands, caused by the work stoppage of the judiciary, security services, and the National Security Directorate in recent months.
The Council received a report on job-seekers and expatriates from the Labor and Rehabilitation Office that there are 3,000 expatriates registered in Sirte, and that inventory levels in Sirte stores are enough for four months. The report also covered displaced families, which put the number of internally displaced persons from Warshefana and Benghazi at greater than 6,000.
Both the Council and its Executive Committee for Sectors underscored the need to activate security and the judiciary in the city, at Sirte International Airport, Sirte’s commercial seaport, and the need for the Municipal Guard to fulfill their duty of providing services to citizens.
During the meeting, the Council also discussed the shortage of medicine and medical equipment for Sirte’s 37 health facilities, and work to meet this need, to provide health services to the people of the area, and to address the shortage of drinking water and some medicines.
The Council also received a report on the housing and facilities sector regarding the Committee to Inventory Dilapidated Housing. In addition, the Council and the Executive Committee for Sectors discussed the work of the Personal Property Subcommittee formed by the Council of Minister’s decree to inventory items lost from homes during the 2011 War of Liberation for referral to the Central Committee in Tripoli to compensate their owners.
The meeting then turned to a discussion of the repeated attacks on utility poles and the ongoing phone network outages on the Madar and Libyana phone networks in Sirte.
The committee also followed up on progress of education in Sirte, including the provision of textbooks, special exams for elementary and middle school students this year, and work to provide the necessary support to the sector.
The Council and Executive Committee discussed a report from the Sirte Media Office on supporting “Radio Free Sirte” with equipment and funding to fulfill its informational role.
 
Source: http://bit.ly/1GaCyVX
Threats to Close a Second Oil Field in Libya
Tuesday, 14 October 2014 – 17:24 Abu Dhabi time
Abu Dhabi – Sky News Arabia
Protestors have threatened to close Abu Tifl, a second Libyan oilfield, to compel the government National Oil Corporation to hire hundreds of local residents, according to their official spokesman.
Amid a wave of strikes that began in July 2013, Libyans demanding work have shut down Abu Tifl oilfield, a year-old joint project between the Italian oil company ENI and the Libyan National Oil Corporation.
Protests at other oil fields have ended but the Abu Tifl field located in the eastern Libyan city of Jalu remains closed, according to a Reuters report.
In addition to the 60 thousand barrel per day Abu Tifl field, protesters are now closing the Jalu 59 field and Field 103 A.
A spokesman said that the protestors are planning a third move to close the nearby field 103 B, adding “If the National Oil Corporation does not accept our demands, by Thursday, Field 103B will be closed.
Oilfield closures have caused Libya’s oil production to drop below 900 thousand barrels per day, although the NOC will not release the latest production figures.
Libya, an OPEC member state, has seen its oil industry recover with the reopening of three main ports in the east of the country earlier this year, in the context of an agreement with protesters who had closed the ports, demanding self governance. The eastern Port of Zueitina remains closed as oil workers demand a change to the administration of the port management company.


03Nov2014 			The Battle for Oil and Money Quietly Continues		
As various analysts observing Libyan affairs started indicating a few weeks ago, the ongoing military battles being fought throughout the country represent only one of the fronts where opposing alliances are facing off. In fact, the National Oil Corporation, the Central Bank and the Libyan Investment Agency (LIA) represent three equally fundamental assets whose importance for empowering any faction with enough wealth to buttress its rule cannot be overstated.
Fortunately for Libya, despite the zero-sum logic displayed on the military battlefield, both sides have so far employed some degree of self-restraint to avoid the complete freezing of Libyan asset which would bring the country, if possible, to an even more dangerous standstill. A proof of this can be seen, as argued by The Economist, in the paradoxically consistent oil output that the country is producing despite widespread fights.
The key question of course remains that of how long will these informal arrangements actually be able to sustain themselves before reaching a fatal tipping point and squandering Libya’s last valuable institutions and assets. The question is all the more pressing now that the Tobruq-based establishment seems to be gaining the upper hand on different fronts. Since last weekend, in fact, several developments seem to indicate a consolidation of the HoR camp with regards to control of oil and finance related institutions.
Firstly, Jathran publicly slapped the Misratan camp, revealing their recent overtures towards him and declaring himself more inclined to share a cell with Qadhafi’s henchmen Abdallah Senussi rather than closing a political deal with the Fajr Libya forces.
Secondly, the Libyan Investment Authority saw yet another change at the top, with the replacement of Abdulrahman Benyezza with Hassan Ahmed Bouhadi, a move largely understood to bring the LIA key position firmly in the hands of the Tobruq establishment. Chris Wright on Forbes presents a very interesting account of the ongoing struggle for the control of this institution and of the crippling effects that the uncertainty marring the post-Qadhafi period has had on financial and developmental institutions in the country:

So will the new appointments make any difference? One person close to the LIA says of Bouhadi: “I hear he’s a good guy.” Bouhadi became a member of the LIA’s Board of Trustees earlier in 2014, and earlier served as secretary to that board, so he knows the place. A former World Bank official, Ahmed Ali Attiga, has been appointed as chief executive; when I visited Tripoli earlier this year, his was a name people had hoped to hear being connected with the LIA, so perhaps there is hope.
Both both men could just as easily find themselves removed in this uncertain environment. Last month I spoke with Libya’s central bank governor (again, his position depends on which side you talk to – some Libyan powers consider him to be suspended) Saddek Omar Elkaber, and what he said about the central bank could apply equally to the sovereign fund (which it is closely linked to in any case). “The challenges are huge,” he said. “There is safety and security, human development, the autonomy and integrity of the institution, capacity-building, fighting corruption, maintaining stability in the banking sector, establishing the right environment for the private sector to be established and to grow locally, and paving the way for international investors to come.” Over the last few months, he said, “we almost stopped everything. Because of the problems with safety and security, we will not be able to attract the right people to come and help us.” Tellingly, the interview took place with him not in Tripoli but in Malta.

Thirdly, the Central Bank has confirmed its ability thus far to channel funds towards the Tobruq administration, despite the uncertainty currently surrounding its leadership. In this sense, it appears that the control of Tripoli and of several institutional offices is not yet proving key to ensure the control of the pursue strings for the Misratan camp. The surreal organisation of a marathon, last Sunday in Tripoli, with the purpose of luring back foreign companies, workers and diplomats camp to take a slice of the city’s and country’s cake, however, is possibly the strongest indication of the difficulties currently faced in the capital.


03Nov2014 			Review of The Concise Guide to Wine and Blind Tasting		
Review of The Concise Guide to Wine and Blind Tasting, by Neel Burton and James Flewellen. London: Acheron Books, 2014
By Jason Pack in The Time Literary Supplement (TLS), October 31, 2014, No. 5822 Review available to read by clicking here

Share 
FacebookTwitterGoogle+LinkedIn 
  Recent Posts 
Review of Syria: A Recent History (14 May 2015)
Operation Idris (9 May 2015)
Negotiations Hit Yet Another Slump as Oil Sector Struggles (8 May 2015)
The July 2012 Libyan Election and the Origin of Post-Qadhafi Appeasement (29 Apr 2015)
All Eyes on Migrants as Political Deal Keeps Slipping Through (27 Apr 2015)
Milliband Puts His Foot in His Mouth on Libya (26 Apr 2015)
Are UK Failures in Libya to Blame for Mediterranean Migrant Crisis? (25 Apr 2015)
Migrant Issue on BBC 5 Live and Fan Mail (22 Apr 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Humanitarian Crisis In Sirte (22 Apr 2015)
Libya Dawn Repels Uprisings in Tripoli as Instability Plagues Libya (21 Apr 2015)
How to Solve the Crisis in the Mediterranean? (20 Apr 2015)
The Anglo-Senussi ‘War’ of 1915 – 17 and the Emergence of Modern Cyrenaica (17 Apr 2015)
Aiding the Assyrians Fight Against ISIS (16 Apr 2015)
Hawks Prevailing in Tobruk? Another ‘Lost’ Week for Libya (14 Apr 2015)
The ‘Oil Crescent’ is Pacified despite Tobruk’s New NOC (7 Apr 2015)
Delegations Back in Tripoli and Tobruk, Will the Agreement Stand? (1 Apr 2015)
Checks, Balances, and the Draft Agreement on the Political Transition in Libya (31 Mar 2015)
Haftar Holds the Key to Peace in Libya (26 Mar 2015)
Talks derailed again as Misratan Militias Face Jihadists (24 Mar 2015)
Smuggled Libya Gas Fuels Conflict (23 Mar 2015)
A Week of Waiting in Libya (16 Mar 2015)
Dialogue Resumes in Morocco as IS Militants Sweep Oil Fields (8 Mar 2015)
Why Picking Sides in Libya Won’t Work (6 Mar 2015)
ISIS Fighters Take Over Major Libyan Oilfields (5 Mar 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Explosion at ISIS-Controlled Hisba Building in Derna (4 Mar 2015)
Is This the Week That Makes or Breaks Libya? (2 Mar 2015)
Islamic State Will Flourish if the West Picks Sides in Libya (24 Feb 2015)
Russia Today Interview Explaining Why Libya is Where It is (24 Feb 2015)
Islamic State Gains Libya Foothold (24 Feb 2015)
HoR Suspend its Participation in UN Talks (23 Feb 2015)
Pack Interview with Cape Town Radio About Situation in Libya (20 Feb 2015)
Will Federalists Spoil the UN Negotiations’ Process? (17 Feb 2015)
The Islamic State Launches Another Offensive in Libya, What Next? (17 Feb 2015)
Egypt Launches Airstrikes in Derna After ISIS Beheads Coptic Christians (16 Feb 2015)
Libya’s Power Blocs are Fracturing (15 Feb 2015)
NY Times Editorial Pointing Out the Urgent Need For International Action in Libya (15 Feb 2015)
The Art of Seizing the Moment (Slava vs. Lars Part III) (10 Feb 2015)
Talks to Pay Symbolic Visit to Ghadames as Misratan Option Fails (9 Feb 2015)
Libya: Armed Politics and Regional Escalation (6 Feb 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Warplanes Strike Fajr Libya Positions in Bin Jawad (5 Feb 2015)
HoR Does Housekeeping by Shelving Political Isolation Law (4 Feb 2015)
Dialogue Continues in Geneva Despite Violence (30 Jan 2015)
Pack, Fitzgerald, Northern and Abdulrahman Al-Ageli to speak on Feb 9 at RUSI (29 Jan 2015)
At Least Eight Killed in Deadly Attack on Corinthia Hotel (28 Jan 2015)
Talks to Resume as Need for External Support Seems Now Inevitable (26 Jan 2015)
Do you require high quality analysis and forecasting on Libya, tailored to your organisation’s needs and individual interests? (21 Jan 2015)
How To End Libya’s War (21 Jan 2015)
Is the Tide Turning? Or Will Negotiations Bring Even More Divisions? (18 Jan 2015)
From the Libyan Press: Stopping Goods Seizure at Port of Benghazi and Airstrike Warnings for Misrata Airport and Seaport (14 Jan 2015)
As the State Collapses, Rival Blocks Agree to Talks in Geneva (12 Jan 2015)
Concerns grow that Libya is becoming a terrorist hot spot (10 Jan 2015)
Ageela Salah calls for a political solution as Greek tanker gets attacked (6 Jan 2015)
Libya in 2015: The Scramble for Oil and Scenarios for Transition (2 Jan 2015)
Libya continues to slide down a spiral of violence (31 Dec 2014)
Stalemate in the Oil Crescent? (19 Dec 2014)
The Arab Spring, Four Years On (18 Dec 2014)
Force Majeure Declared over Sidra and Ras Lanuf as Fighting Rages on (16 Dec 2014)
Libya Dawn Offensive Against the Oil Ports Kicks Off (13 Dec 2014)
Second Round of Negotiations Postponed Amid Leon’s Efforts (9 Dec 2014)
Different Western Perspectives to Foreign Mediation in Libya (8 Dec 2014)
Libya’s UN Talks to Resume Next Tuesday? (4 Dec 2014)
Tobruk Goes to Vienna as Haftar Describes Unrealistic Rosy Picture (30 Nov 2014)
All Out Fighting for Tripoli Resumes, the Demise of the Negotiations Illusion? (26 Nov 2014)
Post Supreme Court Ruling Uncertainty Continues in Divided Libya (19 Nov 2014)
Publication of Updated Post-Nov 6 Supreme Court Decision Report. (13 Nov 2014)
Questions from a Libyan living in Benghazi (13 Nov 2014)
Car Bombs Yield Further Escalation in Libya (13 Nov 2014)
Bomb Targets Thinni-Leon Meeting amid Oil Sector Setbacks (9 Nov 2014)
Supreme Court Dismisses House of Representatives (7 Nov 2014)
Introducing Arabic Articles about Libya Translated into English (5 Nov 2014)
The Battle for Oil and Money Quietly Continues (3 Nov 2014)
Review of The Concise Guide to Wine and Blind Tasting (3 Nov 2014)
Do We Need a New Negotiation Initiative? (30 Oct 2014)
Engagement Underway to Bolster Political Deal (26 Oct 2014)
Army Ordered to Move towards Tripoli as Tribal Leaders Gather in Egypt (22 Oct 2014)
Interview with Jason Pack and Mattia Toaldo on Voice of Russia (21 Oct 2014)
UK Backgammon Final Article cover in the Independent Newspaper (21 Oct 2014)
Libya: The war nobody can win (20 Oct 2014)
Haftar Goes All-In with Large Scale Assault on Benghazi (18 Oct 2014)
Egypt Intensifies Effort to Eradicate Militant Islamists in Eastern Libya (16 Oct 2014)
Libya Back on the Brink (9 Oct 2014)
On Proxies and Peace Making Perspectives in Libya (9 Oct 2014)
The Tsunami hits Monte Carlo, the Hobgoblin of Continuity, and Ideas to Reinvigorate the World Championship (7 Oct 2014)
Genius and Grace in Monte Carlo (7 Oct 2014)
LIA and Goldman Sachs Square off in Court (7 Oct 2014)
Is Misrata Beginning to Expand its Influence Beyond the Political Sphere? (4 Oct 2014)
Is France Preparing A Ground Invasion in Libya? (3 Oct 2014)
Ghadames to Host UNSMIL Brokered Talks (28 Sep 2014)
How to Give a Gammonish Recube (Slava vs. Lars Part II) (28 Sep 2014)
Al-Thinni’s New Cabinet Approved amid Preparations for Negotiation Talks (24 Sep 2014)
HoR Rejects Thinni’s Cabinet, Libya Dawn Tries to Restore Life in the Capital (21 Sep 2014)
Let the Scramble for Oil Money Begin (19 Sep 2014)
Is Operation Dignity Receiving Further Air Support from the UAE? (17 Sep 2014)
Why Scottish Independence is Bad for Libya (11 Sep 2014)
Libya: Stalemate or Calm before the (Return of the) Storm? (9 Sep 2014)
Is Libya the New Battleground for the Islamist-Nationalist Proxy War? (9 Sep 2014)
Thinni Given PM Mandate as Libya Dawn Tries to Put Facts on the Ground (2 Sep 2014)
Thinni Resigns Again, Tries to Breathe Life into HoR (29 Aug 2014)
Is the HoR Losing the Internal Battle for Legitimacy? (27 Aug 2014)
Latest Strikes Make Libya the New Proxy War in The Region (26 Aug 2014)
Is Operation Dawn Forces’s Tripoli Success The Beginning of the End or The Beginning of An Escalation In Conflict? (24 Aug 2014)
As HoR Continues its Work, Arab League Shuns Call for Foreign Intervention (21 Aug 2014)
Covert Intervention? Air Strike in Tripoli Sparks Anxiety Over Foreign Role in Libya (18 Aug 2014)
HoR Tries Raising its Profile by Pushing for Intervention and Disbandment of Militias (14 Aug 2014)
Toppling Qaddafi: Libya and the Limits of Liberal Intervention (14 Aug 2014)
Libya at a Turning Point? HoR Agrees to Direct Presidential Elections as Fighting Continues Unabated (13 Aug 2014)
Obama Discusses Libya With Thomas L. Friedman (11 Aug 2014)
The NYT on the Impact of the 2012 Benghazi Assault on US Strikes in Iraq (9 Aug 2014)
Despite Turmoil Libya’s Oil Production Remains Steady (8 Aug 2014)
Bernard-Henri Levy Urges The West to Act Before the Clock Strikes Midnight (8 Aug 2014)
Algeria and Egypt Defuse Intervention Talks as HoR Starts Its Works by Ordering Ceasefire (7 Aug 2014)
Elders Hope to Facilitate an Agreement in Cyrenaica As GNC President Dismisses HoR As ‘Unconstitutional’ (6 Aug 2014)
House of Representatives Postpones First Meeting Amid Violence and Displacements (3 Aug 2014)
Escalating Violence in Libya Necessitates International Mediation (1 Aug 2014)
Ansar Al-Sharia Claim Islamic Emirate in Benghazi (31 Jul 2014)
Libya on the Brink: How to Stop the Fighting (30 Jul 2014)
Libya Back in the Limelight, Will Actors on The Ground Capitalize from it? (30 Jul 2014)
No Eid Celebrations as Libya Descends into Chaos (29 Jul 2014)
Calls for Dialogue Fall on Deaf Ears as Militias Get Entrenched in Battle (27 Jul 2014)
Will the House of Representatives be nipped in the bud by ongoing violence? (25 Jul 2014)
Violence in the Capital Escalates as The Government Struggles to Sell Crude (25 Jul 2014)
Are the Parliamentary Elections a Precursor for More Violence? (23 Jul 2014)
As Fighting in the Captial Intensifies Zintanis Hold Airport (22 Jul 2014)
Are The Islamists as Organized as The Media Portrays Them to Be? (21 Jul 2014)
Islamist-Nationalist Rift Intensifies as Another Prominent Female Activist is Assassinated and Airport Workers Strike (17 Jul 2014)
Damage to the Airport and Aircrafts Are a Big Blow to a Weakened Business Sector (15 Jul 2014)
Is Tripoli Witnessing A Civil War between Misrata and Zintan or is this a minor clash between rogue brigades? (15 Jul 2014)
Despite Strikes in Brega, Ras Lanuf and Sidra Set to Open (14 Jul 2014)
Jadhran Hands over Port and Signs of Grand Bargain Emerging (4 Jul 2014)
The House of Representatives Election (26 Jun 2014)
Election Day Guide (25 Jun 2014)
Mary Fitzgerald’s Interview with Hiftar (24 Jun 2014)
Turks and Qataris Ordered to Leave Eastern Libya (23 Jun 2014)
Call for Part Time Consultants (21 Jun 2014)
Three Things to Watch for in the Libya Elections (21 Jun 2014)
Libya’s Faustian Bargains: The Hardcopy (12 Jun 2014)
Setting the Record Straight on the US’s role in Libya (10 Jun 2014)
Maiteg Accepts Supreme Court Decision and Resigns (10 Jun 2014)
Maetig Seizes Prime Ministry Building (3 Jun 2014)
Thinni Vows to Stay On (29 May 2014)
Ansar al-Sharia Mishandles the Media War (28 May 2014)
A Sober Evaluation of Hiftar’s Movement (If we can call it that) (23 May 2014)
The World According to Hiftar (23 May 2014)
“Leaders” of Libyan Army “Suspend” GNC (19 May 2014)
Game Theory, Kidnappings and the Pitfalls of Appeasement in Libya (17 May 2014)
Libya: Swinging Pendulums and Political Crematoria (16 May 2014)
Jordanian Ambassador Freed After Libya Kidnap (14 May 2014)
Libya’s Unexpected Strength (8 May 2014)
Ides of March Cambridge Invitational Tournament – March 2014 (8 May 2014)
Who’s for Prime Minister? (7 May 2014)
Jordan to Release Libyan Militant in Exchange for Ambassador (29 Apr 2014)
Invitation to Launching of Atlantic Council Report “Libya’s Faustian Bargains” (29 Apr 2014)
Libya Lifts Force Majeure on Second Oil Port (28 Apr 2014)
Rejoice and Export Crude, ya Libiyya (7 Apr 2014)
Libyan rebels and Government Agree to Gradually Reopen Occupied Oil Ports (7 Apr 2014)
Some April First Foolery Libyan Style (5 Apr 2014)
Libya Sees “Good Intentions” in Oil Port Talks; Rebel Split Seen (4 Apr 2014)
Jadhran’s Supporters Still Being Paid until November (2 Apr 2014)
Crimea as Europe’s Existential Question (28 Mar 2014)
Zeidan Speaks to Christian Amanpour (26 Mar 2014)
ENI Talks Gas with Libya, Shoring Up Non-Russian Supply (24 Mar 2014)
Lars Trabolt vs Vyachslav Pryadkin  in The WC Final — PART 1: Limiting Gammonish Volitility (24 Mar 2014)
Libya Leads World in Traffic Deaths Per Capita (20 Mar 2014)
Iraqi Insurgency Tactics Being Used by Jihadists in Libya (17 Mar 2014)
Sometimes It Is Tough Being a Pirate (17 Mar 2014)
Consensus Principle and Regional Development Budget Approved by Congress (13 Mar 2014)
Libya’s Prime Minister Ousted in Chaos Over Tanker (12 Mar 2014)
Libyan Oil Stolen at Sidra (9 Mar 2014)
The Future of Libya: Is ‘Pakistanisation’ a Foregone Conclusion? (8 Mar 2014)
An Absurd Connection between Ukraine and Libya (8 Mar 2014)
Possible Presidential Election? (6 Mar 2014)
GNC Members’ Cars Burned as Protestors Vandalise Congress (3 Mar 2014)
The Battle for Benghazi (1 Mar 2014)
Constitutional Committee Election Final Turnout Put at Half Million (24 Feb 2014)
45 Percent Turnout in Constitutional Committee Elections but 13 Seats Cannot be Declared (22 Feb 2014)
Too Cool for a Coup, Part Two (21 Feb 2014)
New Alignments between Zintan, GNC, Islamists and the Population (21 Feb 2014)
To Coup, Or Not to Coup? (16 Feb 2014)
Jadhran’s Brother to Be Returned to Libya after Arrest in UAE (13 Feb 2014)
Libya vs Western Bankers (13 Feb 2014)
Correcting the Course of Libya’s Revolution (Part 1/2) (12 Feb 2014)
Even Federalism Won’t Placate the Federalists (11 Feb 2014)
Zeidan’s Newly Proposed Cabinet has Been Rejected (11 Feb 2014)
Dunks and Dodging Bullets: Americans Chase Hoop Dreams in Libya (9 Feb 2014)
Protests Against the Extention of the GNC’s Mandate Passed Peacefully (8 Feb 2014)
The Feb 7 Extension of GNC issue (6 Feb 2014)
Libya PM Threatens Eastern Protesters with Troops (5 Feb 2014)
Is Jadhran’s Support Waning? (1 Feb 2014)
Libya: Date Set for Vote to Select Constitutional Panel (31 Jan 2014)
Madagascar’s Radio DJ President Jockeys for Power (28 Jan 2014)
Power Cut Misery to Continue Until Warshefana Clashes Resolved (28 Jan 2014)
Sebha Still Awaiting Military Support (28 Jan 2014)
Egyptian Embassy Staff ‘Seized’ in Libya (26 Jan 2014)
Libya Chaos Worsens (10 Jan 2014)
Killings of Briton and New Zealander Underscore Libya’s Security Breakdown (4 Jan 2014)
Anna Baldinetti looking for research assistant (3 Jan 2014)
Libya in 2014??? (31 Dec 2013)
Khattala with the Candlestick in the Diplomatic Mission (30 Dec 2013)
Happy Libyan Independence Day and Merry Christmas (24 Dec 2013)
Libya Probes Deadly Army Checkpoint Bombing (23 Dec 2013)

 




		©
						
			LibyaAnalysis.com  |  Site by Round Hex





