Influx of Migrants Across Mediterranean Nears Record Levels - NYTimes.com 



Influx of Migrants Across Mediterranean Nears Record Levels - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Europe|Influx of Migrants Across Mediterranean Nears Record Levels
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1IXCfx2




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Europe 
Influx of Migrants Across Mediterranean Nears Record Levels

By JIM YARDLEYAPRIL 13, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






Migrants in Zarzis, Tunisia, on Monday after their boat overturned en route to Italy from Libya. The number of migrants taking to the sea is already near last year’s record level.

Credit
            Fethi Nasri/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
ROME —  With spring barely arrived, the migrant crisis in the Mediterranean is already approaching last year’s record levels after a startling weekend in which more than 5,600 people were rescued from a small armada of smugglers’ wooden and rubber boats, even as nine others died after their vessel capsized.The figures suggest that European officials are likely to be confronted again with a humanitarian crisis in the Mediterranean, after a year in which more than 3,200 people died and more than 130,000 were rescued by Italian naval and coast guard ships. Humanitarian groups estimate that nearly 500 people have already died at sea this year, compared with about 50 in the same period last year.“We are experiencing a trend similar to last year,” said Flavio Di Giacomo, a spokesman in Italy for the International Organization for Migration. “It is an emergency from a humanitarian point of view. These people are risking their lives, and many people are losing their lives at sea. It is also an operational emergency.”For years, migrants have paid smugglers to deliver them to Europe via the Mediterranean, with the numbers spiking during the summer, when the sea is calmer. But unrest in Syria and elsewhere in the Middle East, along with war and poverty in some African countries, has transformed migration into a year-round phenomenon with increased risks for calamity.Europe has struggled to absorb the huge numbers of migrants and to develop a strategy to rescue them at sea. Italy has borne much of the rescue burden and won praise for its Mare Nostrum program, in which Italian ships served as the front line in rescue operations.But Mare Nostrum ended in November and is being replaced by a new program, Triton, under the command of Frontex, the European immigration agency. Under Triton, the patrolling is supposed to be shared by a variety of nations, though Italy is still doing the most.During the weekend, the Italian Coast Guard said, the rescue operation included four of its vessels, an Italian naval ship, an Icelandic patrol ship under the Triton program and nine merchant boats.“We are just doing our job,” said Cmdr. Filippo Marini, a coast guard spokesman, noting that no slowdown was in sight. “It is likely that many more will come.”The European authorities say the upheaval in Libya has exacerbated the migration crisis, as smugglers are able to operate freely along the largely unmonitored Libyan coastline. Over the weekend, 22 rubber or wooden boats set off from Libya, Italian officials said, including one that capsized on Sunday night 80 miles off the African coast. Rescuers saved 144 people, but nine others died, Commander Marini said.The unrelenting pace of arrivals has transformed sections of southern Italy, especially Sicily, into de facto intake centers for migrants, including many who quickly head north to more prosperous countries like Germany and Sweden. In the first three months of 2015, officials said, 10,165 migrants were rescued, a slight drop from last year — though the spike in April has dampened hopes that the smuggling operations in Libya and Egypt are slowing down.“Migrants told us they were waiting in ‘connection houses,’ the facilities where they have to wait for departure,” Mr. Di Giacomo said. “They were waiting for over a month. They didn’t leave earlier because of the bad weather.”


Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on April 14, 2015, on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Migrant Crossings to Europe Surge.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












