
'Everyone's scared' - as Hagupit hits the Philippines - Philippines - The Straits Times

'Everyone's scared' - as Hagupit hits the Philippines - Philippines - The Straits Times




















   

























Politics & Diplomacy
Economy & Business
Health & Environment
Trends & Transitions
Op-Ed
Lifestyle
People



South-east Asia



Brunei
Cambodia
Indonesia
Laos
Malaysia
Myanmar
Philippines
Singapore
Thailand
Timor Leste
Vietnam




East Asia



China
Hong Kong
Japan
Macau
North Korea
South Korea
Taiwan




South Asia



Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
India
Maldives
Nepal
Pakistan
Sri Lanka




Oceania



Australia
New Zealand




Special Report



Asia's Contested Seas



Senkaku/Diaoyu islands
Takeshima/Dokdo islands
South China Sea








Multimedia



Pictures
Videos




Blogs
About Us







HomeAsia ReportPhilippinesStory


















'Everyone's scared' - as Hagupit hits the Philippines
Over 650,000 flee to higher ground in one of world's biggest peacetime evacuations
 



			Published on Dec 07, 2014					









Purchase this article for republication
Buy SPH photos























Fishermen (above) carrying their boat to higher ground in Legazpi city, south of Manila, on Friday, while a worker at a Manila warehouse loads sacks of rice onto trucks in preparation for Typhoon Hagupit, which made landfall in Eastern Samar province last night. -- PHOTOS: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, REUTERS

 - PHOTOS: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, REUTERS






Fishermen carrying their boat to higher ground in Legazpi city, south of Manila, on Friday, while a worker (above) at a Manila warehouse loads sacks of rice onto trucks in preparation for Typhoon Hagupit, which made landfall in Eastern Samar province last night. -- PHOTOS: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, REUTERS












 http://www.stasiareport.com/sites/straitstimes.com/files/imagecache/ST_REVAMP_2014_STORY_PAGE_640X360/20141207/ST_20141207_RDTYPHOON07_884985e.jpg 
 
Fishermen (above) carrying their boat to higher ground in Legazpi city, south of Manila, on Friday, while a worker at a Manila warehouse loads sacks of rice onto trucks in preparation for Typhoon Hagupit, which made landfall in Eastern Samar province last night. -- PHOTOS: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, REUTERS  

 http://www.stasiareport.com/sites/straitstimes.com/files/imagecache/ST_REVAMP_2014_STORY_PAGE_640X360/20141207/ST_20141207_RDTYPHOON07B7AM_884990e.jpg 
 
Fishermen carrying their boat to higher ground in Legazpi city, south of Manila, on Friday, while a worker (above) at a Manila warehouse loads sacks of rice onto trucks in preparation for Typhoon Hagupit, which made landfall in Eastern Samar province last night. -- PHOTOS: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, REUTERS  





By Raul Dancel, Philippines Correspondent  In Manila 
Nearly two-thirds of a million people have fled to safety in the Philippines as a powerful tropical storm slammed into the country, triggering one of the world's biggest peacetime evacuations.
The national disaster agency said more than 650,000 people living in coastal and low-lying villages, near river banks and landslide-prone areas, in six regions - Southern Luzon, Bicol, Western, Central and Eastern Visayas, and Caraga - have fled to higher ground.
Typhoon Hagupit - Filipino for "lash" - with winds of up to 210kmh, is the strongest storm to hit the Philippines this year.
In Geneva, the spokesman for the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction, Mr Denis McClean, said Hagupit "is triggering one of the largest evacuations we have ever seen in peacetime".
In Leyte province's Tacloban, a city of 220,000 people that Super Typhoon Haiyan nearly wiped off the map 13 months ago, over 19,000 were crammed into a sports stadium, schools, churches and 27 purpose-built evacuation sites.
Most went there on their own, terrified by memories of Haiyan's tsunami-like storm surges that killed over 3,000 people and levelled over 90 per cent of the city.
Ms Dina Villanueva, 27, a mother of two, told the Philippine Daily Inquirer that finding herself at an evacuation centre just a year after surviving Haiyan was a "hellish nightmare".
With power cut and mobile networks lost in areas where the typhoon made landfall, assessment of initial damage may only be known after daybreak today.
Yesterday, Tacloban was shuttered, and its streets were mostly deserted. Malls, restaurants, fast-food joints, bakeries and stores were boarded up.
Social welfare worker Shime Diaz told The Sunday Times her family moved to a safer spot farther inland, and that she herself decided to spend the night at one of the Welfare Ministry's warehouses where she felt safer.
"Everyone's scared. Everyone's taking this very, very seriously," she said.
Ms Diaz said most of the families under her care at a temporary settlement in Palo town, south of Tacloban, had moved to an evacuation centre, after securing their wooden houses with ropes.
But a few of the men stayed behind to watch over their belongings, she said. In the aftermath of Haiyan, looting had been widespread.
Those huddled in evacuation centres elsewhere said all they could do was pray.
The government and people are taking precautions through the massive evacuation, as images of the wide swathe of destruction cut by Haiyan linger.
Haiyan tore through central Philippines in November last year, leaving over 7,000 dead. Most of those who died were caught unawares by 7m-tall storm surges that swept as far as 7km inland.
Provincial officials reported in briefings held hours before Typhoon Hagupit made landfall in Eastern Samar province last night that they were forcibly evacuating those living in coastal villages that were particularly vulnerable.
"I am afraid and scared," Ms Teresita Aban, 58, a housewife, told Reuters in Samar province.
Wiping away tears and trembling as she spoke, Ms Aban said: "We haven't even finished repairing our house, and here comes another storm."
Cebu Pacific and Philippine Airlines cancelled about 100 flights to central and southern Philippines yesterday.
rdancel@sph.com.sg
 

Related LinksGraphics adapted from BBC 
Background story
No respite
"I am afraid and scared. We haven't even finished repairing our house, and here comes another storm."
MS TERESITA ABAN, a housewife in Samar province.

Related Stories2.4 million people at risk as typhoon Hagupit hits the Philippines


 
 




   







 





 














 

SPH Digital News / Copyright © 2015 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co. Regn No. 198402868E. All rights reserved.
 Terms & Conditions

























