Rescued African Migrants Recount Ordeal in Mediterranean  - NYTimes.com 



Rescued African Migrants Recount Ordeal in Mediterranean  - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Europe|Rescued African Migrants Recount Ordeal in Mediterranean 
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1vEtTZT




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Europe 
Rescued African Migrants Recount Ordeal in Mediterranean 

By GAIA PIANIGIANIFEB. 11, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






Migrants who survived a crossing from Libya arriving on the Italian island of Lampedusa on Wednesday.

Credit
            Antonio Parrinello/Reuters        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
ROME —  Survivors rescued off the Libyan coast by the Italian Coast Guard gave harrowing accounts of small boats packed with migrants that were overwhelmed by high waves, which washed scores of people overboard to their deaths in cold Mediterranean waters, humanitarian organizations said Wednesday.The groups said more than 300 people might already have died by the time coast guard vessels reached the scene. An additional 29 who were rescued later died of hypothermia before the vessels could reach port.The latest deaths at sea drew immediate complaints about the program run by the European Union, known as Triton, that is responsible for patrolling the continent’s shores and rescuing people in distress. Triton is more limited in scope than a rescue operation run by the Italian Navy that was disbanded last fall. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    






Migrants Are Plucked From Sea Off Libya, but 29 Die Aboard Italian Rescue ShipsFEB. 9, 2015








2014 Was Deadliest Year for Migrants, International Group SaysDEC. 16, 2014







In a message on Twitter, Nils Muiznieks, commissioner for human rights at the Council of Europe, called the most recent deaths “another preventable tragedy on the Mediterranean.” He added: “The E.U. needs effective search and rescue. Triton does not meet this need.”According to survivors’ accounts, four inflatable boats filled with migrants from Africa departed from a port near Tripoli, Libya, on Saturday, with the goal of landing on Italian soil.But only one boat was located by the Italian Coast Guard. A merchant ship later rescued nine survivors from two of the other boats, but it was not clear what had become of those craft. Nothing was yet known about the fourth. Survivors said more than 100 people were aboard each of the rubber boats.Carlotta Sami, spokeswoman for the United Nations refugee agency in Italy, said that migrants had been “swallowed up by the waves.”Flavio Di Giacomo, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration, said the migrants “were all sub-Saharan Africans, the human cargoes of the smugglers.”“They were scared; they realized the sea was too rough to make it,” Mr. Di Giacomo said, but “many told us that they were threatened with knives and guns to get aboard.”The Italian authorities and humanitarian agencies cited shortcomings in the Triton patrol operation. Triton restricts its activities to waters close to the European coast; most fatal shipwrecks, especially those involving migrant smuggling, happen much farther away, where rescue efforts are harder.Mare Nostrum, the Italian-run program that preceded Triton, responded to more distant distress calls and was credited with saving hundreds of lives. It began in late 2013, shortly after a shipwreck off the Italian island Lampedusa left 360 people dead. Monday’s rescue from the foundering boat occurred about 100 miles south of Lampedusa.“The Triton operation does not have saving human lives as its principal mandate and therefore cannot be the response we urgently need,” said Laurens Jolles, the United Nations refugee agency’s delegate for Southern Europe.Humanitarian agencies and local authorities said the number of people attempting the perilous sea crossing was sure to increase as spring approaches and the weather improves, regardless of the scaling back of the European rescue effort.“Whoever thought that closing Mare Nostrum might have a deterring effect was clearly wrong,” Ms. Sami, the United Nations spokeswoman, told the Italian news channel Sky TG24.


A version of this article appears in print on February 12, 2015, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Rescued African Migrants Recount Ordeal in Mediterranean.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












