Migrants Are Plucked From Sea Off Libya, but 29 Die Aboard Italian Rescue Ships - NYTimes.com 



Migrants Are Plucked From Sea Off Libya, but 29 Die Aboard Italian Rescue Ships - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Europe|Migrants Are Plucked From Sea Off Libya, but 29 Die Aboard Italian Rescue Ships
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1zpScFC




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Europe 
Migrants Are Plucked From Sea Off Libya, but 29 Die Aboard Italian Rescue Ships

By GAIA PIANIGIANI and JIM YARDLEYFEB. 9, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By









Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
ROME —  Twenty-nine migrants who were rescued alive in rough seas off the Libyan coast died before the Italian Coast Guard could get them to shore, officials said on Monday.Two coast guard ships responded to a distress call from a boat battered by huge waves, some as high as 25 feet, and crews managed to evacuate more than 100 migrants from the boat. But the authorities said many of the migrants were so badly weakened by exhaustion and exposure that they did not survive much longer.“They perished during the trip, despite all the medical assistance and all the efforts we made,” said Cmdr. Filippo Marini, a spokesman for the coast guard. “They were devastated by the weather and sea conditions, and by the trip they had undertaken just to reach their boat.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Promise of Europe Lures Syrians and SmugglersFEB. 5, 2015












Migrants Die After Boat Capsizes North of Bosporus Off TurkeyNOV. 3, 2014












Fleeing Gaza, Only to Face Treachery and Disaster at Sea SEPT. 19, 2014








Smugglers Rammed Migrants’ Boat, Sinking It, Group SaysSEPT. 15, 2014












Help Is Sought for Migrants Dying at SeaAUG. 26, 2014







Tens of thousands of people, many of them fleeing conflicts in Africa or the Middle East, pay smugglers to make a dangerous journey across the Mediterranean in the hope of reaching Western Europe, and the flow of migrants has reached crisis proportions. Last year, more than 170,000 people arrived in Italy alone, while more than 3,200 people are estimated to have died at sea making the attempt.
Continue reading the main story
Video

A Rescue at Sea

A boat packed with Syrian refugees fleeing the war bobbed in the sea about 50 miles off the southeastern coast of Sicily as the Italian Coast Guard approached.

                By Ben Solomon on                                                    Publish Date November 29, 2013.
                            

                                    Photo by Bryan Denton for The New York Times.
                            



Until late last year, Italy had taken the lead in responding to the crisis, with a navy-run rescue program known as Mare Nostrum (Our Sea, the old Roman name for the Mediterranean) that was credited with saving tens of thousands of lives. More recently, the European Union’s immigration agency, Frontex, has taken over responsibility for coordinating a multinational maritime rescue effort, but it is limited to waters closer to Europe.The Italian Coast Guard still responds on its own to more distant distress calls, like the one off Libya on Monday, but the navy does not.Flavio Di Giacomo, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration, suggested that the change might have played a tragic role in the events on Monday. If larger navy ships like those used in the Mare Nostrum program had been involved in the latest rescue, he said, they might have afforded more room and greater protection from the elements for the rescued migrants.“You could argue that this is the first consequence of the absence of Mare Nostrum,” he said. Noting that the flow of migrants is likely to increase in warmer weather, he added, “We shall see what happens this summer.”Commander Marini said the coast guard had received an initial distress call late on Sunday and sent two vessels from Lampedusa, an Italian island near the Tunisian coast that migrants often try to reach.Coast guard radio operators also directed a nearby merchant ship to change course toward the migrant boat and then monitor it until the coast guard vessels arrived, the commander said, adding that the merchant ship was unable to take on the migrants itself because of the high waves.“The sea and weather conditions were terrible,” he said.When the coast guard vessels arrived, their crews managed to transfer the surviving migrants on board. But the rescue ships had very limited space below, and most of the migrants had to remain huddled on deck, wrapped in blankets, as the rescue vessels made their way back to Lampedusa. Commander Marini said each vessel had a doctor and a nurse on board who tried to treat the most weakened people, even as some began to succumb.Early reports said that seven of the 29 migrants who died did so before the coast guard reached the scene, but late on Monday a commander confirmed that all 29 were still alive when they were transferred to rescue vessels.“These people died because of the cold,” Giusi Nicolini, the mayor of Lampedusa, said in an interview on the Italian news channel Sky TG24. “Had they been transported on the large ships of Mare Nostrum, they would be alive.”


A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2015, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Migrants Are Plucked From Sea Off Libya, but 29 Die Aboard Italian Rescue Ships.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












