Typhoon Hagupit lives up to its name in the Philippines  - Mission Network News
Typhoon Hagupit lives up to its name in the Philippines  - Mission Network News


Skip to content
















Stay Connected




Mission Network News 

News

IDOP Radio Broadcast 2014
Archives
Free E-mail Updates
Interviews
Other Formats
World Regions
Popular Topics


Mission Groups

All Groups
Group Categories


Mission Trips

Search Mission Trips
Mission Focus
FAQ
About STMDb


Radio Stations

Station Search
Add Your Station
Download
Download Signup


Resources

Free Prayer Calendar
Bulletin Insert
Privacy/Terms


Podcasts

1 Minute
2 Minutes
4.5 Minutes
Interviews


About MNN

Mission
Staff
Sitemap
Contact Us


Support MNN

Prayer
Donate










News Around the World

Published on 09 December, 2014 











Breaking News


Top Stories


Staff Blogs







Typhoon Hagupit lives up to its name in the Philippines

					Published by Ruth Kramer  on December 9, 2014 


(Photo courtesy Baptist Global Response)
Philippines (MNN/BGR) — The storm that hit the Philippines was aptly named. Jeff Palmer with Baptist Global Response says in Tagalog, “The word ‘hagupit’ is a local word meaning ‘to lash’ or ‘to flail.’ So, it kind of gives that ominous ‘you’re going to get punished’ feeling.” Typhoon Hagupit did indeed lash the Philippines in the same place where Haiyan struck last year.
However, the storm downgraded from the Super Typhoon it threatened to be by the time it made landfall. “The Filipino government did what they were supposed to do. They moved people out from the areas, the shores; they got them to higher and safer areas, and more secure buildings, and did a really good job.” Palmer says that was an answer to prayer. That’s the good news. Here’s the not-so-good news: in spite of the fact that lives were spared, families in the Philippines are reeling today. “You had a lot of wind damage this time, [and] you had a lot of flooding to go with it. But because of the preparation and because the storm lost intensity, we had a lot less loss of life and injury.”
Catanduanes province declared a state of calamity. Power and communications have been knocked out. Roads have been blocked with debris. The hardest-hit area so far is just north of Tacloban where Baptists have a training center in a jungle area.
(Photo courtesy Baptist Global Response)
Keep in mind, recovery from Typhoon Haiyan was ongoing. “People are still in temporary shelters from last year. They’re in these barracks and things like that. We know there’s a lot of damage in those because they were not substantial structures, so we’ll be working with some of that.”
Initial assessments have already been completed, adds Palmer. “Our teams, like everybody else, are still on the ground there because we’re still responding to last year’s typhoon. So they got to safe places, and then they got out and did an assessment. And now we’ve just released a project this [Monday] morning through our Filipino partners and through our American partners.”
Pat Melancon, BGR’s managing director of disaster response and training, explains that three national “rapid assessment” teams identified areas of need, particularly in locations that may not be reached by large-scaled relief efforts.
(Photo courtesy Baptist Global Response)
Palmer says right now, “It’s sort of like you have this terrible trauma in your family, and you’re just starting to recover: and then another one hits. That’s where a lot of people are.”
Believers are sharing and ministering. They have learned that by meeting needs, they can also meet spiritual ones as well. “Pray for our workers that are there, that they may be the salt and the light of Christ as they go about helping with this second disaster. Pray that we can really get to folks in need; also pray that we can be bold in sharing our faith and the hope that we find in Jesus Christ.”
You can help BGR respond to disasters by donating to BGR’s Disaster Response Fund at gobgr.org/donate. Donate $10 by texting BGR to 80888.*




Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name 

Mail (will not be published) 

Website












Today's Audio: 




Download:  1min
2min
4-5min
  
About Philippines


Primary Language: Tagalog
Primary Religion: Christianity
Evangelical: 12.3%

More News About Philippines
Info About Philippines
Data from the Joshua Project

About this OrganizationNews for this OrganizationProfile PagePhone: 866 974-5623Web siteBaptist Global Response402 BNA Drive, Suite 411 Nashville, TN37217 
Related Interviews
Jeff Palmer, Baptist Global Response, December 09, 2014


Call to actionPray for boldness and wisdom for Church and ministry leaders in the region.Ask God to provide what is needed to meet the needs in the damaged region.Pray for more Gospel opportunities.Related NewsThe dream of a gifter: spend less, give moreAt least 27 killed by Typhoon HagupitThe power of storytellingBoko Haram kills 11, kidnaps 20  

Tagged: baptist global response, disaster relief, emergency, gospel, Typhoon Hagupit, typhoon humanitarian needs No Comments 







Free Resources
Free Resources
Stop by and see!




MNN FEATURED LINKS8 January, 2015To help support Kids Alive Lebanon's refugee work, click here.You can join Haggai's global community by volunteering, supporting their work financially, or by training with them.Support Vision Beyond Borders work around the world.Sign up for Passion 2015! 
Featured Mission Group



Scriptures In Use
Find Out More About This Organization


Christian Aid Mission
Find Out More About This Organization


Vision Beyond Borders
Find Out More About This Organization


SAT-7
Find Out More About This Organization


Buckner International
Find Out More About This Organization


Mission Eurasia
Find Out More About This Organization


Faith Comes By Hearing
Find Out More About This Organization


Open Doors USA
Find Out More About This Organization


Slavic Gospel Association
Find Out More About This Organization





Featured Mission Trip
Hope for India - 11/29/2014
Location: India
Magnificent historical sites attract millions of tourists and students from across India and the world to India's Rajasthan state. But the beautiful architecture can't cure the brokenness they carry with them--a cure that is only found in Jesus. Partnering with national India Campus Crusade for Christ® staff members and local churches, you will have the...
Find Out More About This Trip





Mobile Ad 1





Mobile Ad 2





Mobile Ad 3







« At least 27 killed by Typhoon Hagupit
The power of storytelling »





















Login


Username



Password


 Remember Me





Lost your password?





Reset Password


Username or E-mail:







Log in











Greg Yoder
Ruth Kramer
Katey Hearth
 

















