
      Philippine rescuers struggle to reach villages after typhoon 'folded homes like paper'
| Reuters



      Philippine rescuers struggle to reach villages after typhoon 'folded homes like paper'
| Reuters







 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators
Environment




Opinion



Opinion Home
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers




Video











































Article
Slideshow
Video

























Philippine rescuers struggle to reach villages after typhoon 'folded homes like paper'

By Erik de Castro

DOLORES, Philippines  
Tue Dec 9, 2014 6:35am EST






Tweet





Share this

Email
Print





























1 of 5. 
                                                An aerial view of damaged coconut trees at a remote village in Dolores, Eastern Samar, central Philippines, December 9, 2014. 
Credit: Reuters/Erik De Castro





Related Video



Typhoon Hagupit weakens
Tue, Dec 9 2014





Related News


'Whiplash' typhoon a cruel blow for already poverty-stricken central PhilippinesTue, Dec 9 2014



Related Topics


World »
Environment »
Natural Disasters »






DOLORES, Philippines (Reuters) - Philippine emergency workers were struggling on Tuesday to reach coastal villages on an island hardest hit by a typhoon where thousands of homes have been wrecked by powerful winds and a storm surge rising three to four meters (10 to 13 feet).
Nearly 13,000 houses were crushed and more than 22,300  damaged on the eastern island of Samar, where Typhoon Hagupit made landfall on Saturday and made slow progress across the country, officials said.The Philippine weather bureau lifted all storm alerts after Hagupit, one of several typhoons to hit the tropical archipelago each year, was downgraded to a tropical depression and headed west towards Vietnam.Roofs were ripped from houses, wooden huts were reduced to matchwood and coconut trees torn up by the roots. Most of the victims, on Samar island, were washed away in floods and some hit by fallen trees, the Philippine Red Cross said.Red Cross chairman Richard Gordon told Reuters the agency received reports that 35 people died but it can only confirm 22 deaths. The official government death toll has risen to eight."Access is very difficult. There are landslides, some are one-lane roads. In the inner barangays (villages), many of the roads have been washed out by flash floods," Gordon said."...It's a long trek (to the villages), it's like Yolanda all over again," Gordon said, referring to super typhoon Haiyan, which hit the same area of the central Philippines last year.But the damage was nowhere near that wrought by Haiyan, which destroyed or damaged more than a million homes, although farm damage from Hagupit, mostly to rice crops, was initially estimated at 1.3 billion pesos ($29.17 million).Learning lessons from Haiyan, which left more than 7,000 dead or missing, authorities launched a massive evacuation effort days ahead of the storm, emptying whole towns and villages.Bank employee Arnalyn Bula told Reuters how howling winds had pounded the walls of her aunt's two-storey concrete home in Dolores in Eastern Samar, where her family sought shelter."Our kitchen was wrecked. Around us, our neighbors' homes were flattened like folded paper," said Bula, 27. Some residents in Dolores hung signs that read "help us" as they appealed for food, water and shelter."We were inside an evacuation site when the roof caved in," a woman told local radio. "God saved us. There were no casualties. There will still be Christmas for us."President Benigno Aquino changed his mind and will travel to Busan on Thursday to attend the annual summit of Southeast Asian countries and South Korea. Earlier, he said he was skipping the event to focus attention on the typhoon clean-up.The National Grid Corp said nearly two million homes across the central Philippines and the south of the main island of Luzon were still without power. Domestic travel resumed, markets reopened and state workers returned to offices. Some shopping malls used emergency power but schools stayed closed for a second day. Mobile phone services were also restored. Thousands of people emerged from shelters to fix wrecked homes and clean up debris, including fallen trees and power poles. Aid trucks were reaching some of the hardest-hit areas after soldiers reopened roads.Armed forces head General Gregorio Catapang said two C130 planes were taking in food, water and relief supplies. (Additional reporting by Rosemarie Francisco, Manny Mogato, Karen Lema and Neil Jerome Morales in Manila; Writing by Rosemarie Francisco; Editing by Nick Macfie)
FILED UNDER: 
World
Environment
Natural Disasters







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints





























Trending On Reuters










Pictures of the Year: EnvironmentOur top nature photography from the year 2014.   Gallery 






 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  













































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.






























