At least 27 killed by Typhoon Hagupit - Mission Network News
At least 27 killed by Typhoon Hagupit - Mission Network News


Skip to content
















Stay Connected




Mission Network News 

News

IDOP Radio Broadcast 2014
Archives
Free E-mail Updates
Interviews
Other Formats
World Regions
Popular Topics


Mission Groups

All Groups
Group Categories


Mission Trips

Search Mission Trips
Mission Focus
FAQ
About STMDb


Radio Stations

Station Search
Add Your Station
Download
Download Signup


Resources

Free Prayer Calendar
Bulletin Insert
Privacy/Terms


Podcasts

1 Minute
2 Minutes
4.5 Minutes
Interviews


About MNN

Mission
Staff
Sitemap
Contact Us


Support MNN

Prayer
Donate










News Around the World

Published on 09 December, 2014 











Staff Blogs







At least 27 killed by Typhoon Hagupit

					Published by Lindsay Steele  on December 9, 2014 


(Map cred: Compassion)
Philippines (MNN) — Typhoon Hagupit reached the Philippines on Saturday December 6, hitting the island of Samar. Hagupit then made landfall on the island of Masbate Sunday, bringing with it strong winds and heavy rainfall.
The Red Cross reports at least 27 deaths from the storm.
BBC says the typhoon has not been nearly as powerful as Typhoon Haiyan, which hit the Philippines last year, leaving over 7,000 lost or dead.
Hagupit, known locally as Ruby, is still traveling west and has been downgraded to a tropical storm.
Authorities also told BBC they were more prepared this time than they were last year when Haiyan hit the Philippines. Compassion International says the government established shelters and has extra food on hand to help in case of a disaster during the storm.
A resident in Bula told Reuters people were returning to their homes and cleaning up. But water, although it seems to be everywhere, is very scarce for drinking.
Flooding has become a major concern, and people are anticipating communication to be affected by power outages. BBC was told by Tacloban Mayor Alfred Romualdez the weather was good now, but tides are high, making it difficult for waterways to drain.
According to Reuters, farm minister Proceso Alcala said crop and farm infrastructure damage is at about one billion pesos, or $22 million USD.
Compassion reported 31 child development centers have been affected. They are providing initial relief to families, and field office staff is working to gather more information and provide support as needed, speaking to families and praying with them.
Pray for families and communities who have been impacted by the typhoon. Pray for minimal damage and loss as the tropical storm marches on.




Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name 

Mail (will not be published) 

Website












Today's Audio: 




Download:  1min
2min
4-5min
  
About Philippines


Primary Language: Tagalog
Primary Religion: Christianity
Evangelical: 12.3%

More News About Philippines
Info About Philippines
Data from the Joshua Project

About this OrganizationNews for this OrganizationProfile PagePhone: (719) 487-7000Alt Phone: (800) 336-7676Fax: (719) 481-5738Web siteCompassion InternationalP.O. Box 65000Colorado Springs, CO80962Call to actionRelated NewsThe dream of a gifter: spend less, give moreTyphoon Hagupit lives up to its name in the Philippines The power of storytellingBoko Haram kills 11, kidnaps 20  

Tagged: compassion international, philippines, Typhoon Hagupit No Comments 







Free Resources
Free Resources
Stop by and see!




MNN FEATURED LINKS8 January, 2015To help support Kids Alive Lebanon's refugee work, click here.You can join Haggai's global community by volunteering, supporting their work financially, or by training with them.Support Vision Beyond Borders work around the world.Sign up for Passion 2015! 
Featured Mission Group



Scriptures In Use
Find Out More About This Organization


Christian Aid Mission
Find Out More About This Organization


Vision Beyond Borders
Find Out More About This Organization


Buckner International
Find Out More About This Organization


SAT-7
Find Out More About This Organization


Mission Eurasia
Find Out More About This Organization


Faith Comes By Hearing
Find Out More About This Organization


Open Doors USA
Find Out More About This Organization


Slavic Gospel Association
Find Out More About This Organization





Featured Mission Trip
Hope for India - 11/29/2014
Location: India
Magnificent historical sites attract millions of tourists and students from across India and the world to India's Rajasthan state. But the beautiful architecture can't cure the brokenness they carry with them--a cure that is only found in Jesus. Partnering with national India Campus Crusade for Christ® staff members and local churches, you will have the...
Find Out More About This Trip





Mobile Ad 1





Mobile Ad 2





Mobile Ad 3







« The dream of a gifter: spend less, give more
Typhoon Hagupit lives up to its name in the Philippines »





















Login


Username



Password


 Remember Me





Lost your password?





Reset Password


Username or E-mail:







Log in











Greg Yoder
Ruth Kramer
Katey Hearth
 

















