Super Typhoon Haiyan: 'At Least 100 Dead' 
Super Typhoon Haiyan: 'At Least 100 Dead'



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Super Typhoon Haiyan: 'At Least 100 Dead'

An aviation officer reports seeing "bodies in the street" after the storm swept through the Philippines city of Tacloban.


06:17, UK, 
Saturday 09
November 2013















Play video "Typhoon Haiyan: 100 Feared Dead"










Video:
Typhoon Haiyan: 100 Feared Dead











Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






At least 100 people may have died in the Philippines from the impact of super typhoon Haiyan, according to government officials.

An aviation officer in the central city of Tacloban reported bodies lying in the streets, said Captain John Andrews, deputy director general of the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines.
Captain Andrews said the Tacloban airport manager had radioed the head office in Manila to report "100-plus dead, lying on the streets, with 100 plus injured".




The death toll is expected to rise  (pic: Lowell Estepa Coron)

"This report was relayed to us by our station manager so it is considered very reliable information," he told ABS-CBN television.
"According to the station manager the airport is completely ruined."

1/75










Gallery: Faces Of Storm's Brutal Aftermath
A man surveys felled trees in an area devastated by Typhoon Haiyan in Palo township.











































































































































































































































Tacloban is the capital of Leyte, a large island of about two million people that was hit by Haiyan on Friday morning when the storm was at its strongest, knocking out all its communication facilities.
Local television GMA network reported that storm surges had hit Tacloban and nearby Palo town on its east coast.
Its reporter said he counted at least 31 bodies, including 20 at the Palo church. Philippine authorities are now rushing rescuers and communication equipment to the island.
Five other people have been confirmed killed elsewhere in the central Philippines and as emergency workers reach the worst affected areas, many which remain cut off, the death toll is expected to rise.








Play video "Super Typhoon Hits The Philippines"










Video:
Super Typhoon Hits The Philippines


Minnie Portales, a spokesman for the aid agency World Vision, said: "As we wait for early reports from some of the hardest-hit provinces, we fear for the worst. This could be very bad."
Anna Lindenfors, Save the Children's director for the Philippines, added: "We expect the level of destruction caused by Typhoon Haiyan to be extensive and devastating, and sadly we fear that many lives will be lost."
Haiyan, now thought to be the strongest storm ever to hit land, was barrelling out of the Philippines after having flattened houses, triggered landslides and floods and knocked out power and communications across a number of islands.
The category five storm whipped-up winds of 195mph and waves as high as 5 metres as well as brought down power lines, knocked out communications, caused landslides and left streets flooded.

1/7










Gallery: Satellite Views: Typhoon Haiyan
Typhoon Haiyan hits the Philippines in this weather satellite image, courtesy of the Japan Meteorological Agency.































Hundreds of thousands of people had to be evacuated and thousands more fled their homes as Haiyan tore apart buildings.
The previous strongest tropical cylcone, Hurricane Camille, brought 190mph winds to the Gulf of Mexico in 1969.
Meteorologists say Haiyan could pick up strength again as it sweeps across the South China Sea toward Vietnam.
  Related Stories  Super Typhoon Haiyan Hits The Philippines  Philippines Braced For Typhoon Haiyan  Japan: Typhoon Wipha Sweeps Through Country  Philippines Earthquake: At Least 93 Dead 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Breaking News: Paris Gun Attack Suspect Surrenders, Reports









Global Vigils To Mourn Paris Terror Attack Dead









Breaking News: Called For By Name: Cartoonists Identified









Breaking News: Officer Shot In Head As He Pleads For Life









Thursday's National Newspaper Front Pages












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









