Tropical Storm Lingling causes problems in Philippines  - Mission Network News
Tropical Storm Lingling causes problems in Philippines  - Mission Network News


Skip to content
















Stay Connected




Mission Network News 

News

IDOP Radio Broadcast 2014
Archives
Free E-mail Updates
Interviews
Other Formats
World Regions
Popular Topics


Mission Groups

All Groups
Group Categories


Mission Trips

Search Mission Trips
Mission Focus
FAQ
About STMDb


Radio Stations

Station Search
Add Your Station
Download
Download Signup


Resources

Free Prayer Calendar
Bulletin Insert
Privacy/Terms


Podcasts

1 Minute
2 Minutes
4.5 Minutes
Interviews


About MNN

Mission
Staff
Sitemap
Contact Us


Support MNN

Prayer
Donate










News Around the World

Published on 22 January, 2014 











Staff Blogs







Tropical Storm Lingling causes problems in Philippines

					Published by Ruth Kramer  on January 22, 2014 


(Photo courtesy Baptist Global Response)
Philippines (MNN) — If you live in central or southern Philippines, the last six months have been brutal.
Battered by an earthquake, typhoons, and conflict, the region is now experiencing floods and mudslides in an area evacuated three months ago to escape Typhoon Haiyan’s fury.
There is no relief in sight for the southern Philippines, though. Baptist Global Response Executive Director Jeff Palmer says, “On top of that, now with the responses going on, we have the lesser typhoons and the storms that are hitting that are hampering relief efforts.”
A visit from Tropical Storm Lingling, (Agaton) added to the monsoon season, dropping nearly four feet of rain since January 1. The heavy flooding and mudslides have displaced 200,000, with the total affected hovering somewhere near 800,000.
Once more, the remote areas are the last to get help. Palmer explains, “We’re having trouble getting into some of the areas…and getting supplies in, having to delay schedules because of choppy seas.” Forecasters expect more rain to fall during the week, so conditions won’t be improving in the near future.
(Photo courtesy Baptist Global Response)
However, Southern Baptists and their partners are formulating a longer-term strategy for helping affected people rebuild their lives, says Palmer. “Many of the areas that we’re working in, we’re still coordinating with the government. We’re still doing a little bit of food distribution. I just looked at the list: we did a little bit over a thousand families this month. That’s tapering off because food is becoming more available.”
With so many global crises, response has been lackluster. However, Palmer says the need now is greater than ever before. “This is when the real work begins because we’re looking at several years of rebuilding and helping people get back, re-established to where they were before the storm. A majority of them aren’t: they’ve just lost everything.”
The community development team is visiting villages, interviewing survivors to find out where their help is most needed. “We are back into institution and home reconstruction. Schools are a big thing. In the five areas we’re working in, we’re looking at 200+ schools. Some of that’s getting a roof back on; some of that is actually rebuilding whole buildings.”
(Photo courtesy Baptist Global Response)
Resources are finite. The restoration fund is just over a million dollars. Over the last couple of months, BGR used roughly a third of that in the recovery efforts. In about six months, unless they get some help, the fund will be at extremely low levels. $15 feeds a family of 5 for a week.
A little prayer and hard work goes a long way in a developing nation, too, adds Palmer. While the Philippines is the top Christian nation in Asia, “there are a lot of people there who still have not heard the Gospel. We’re finding this over and over in the places where we’re responding. [We’re] helping to build a home, but also talking about the foundation we all need to build upon, which is our faith in Jesus Christ.”
Click here if you can come alongside to help in the Philippines.


One Response to “Tropical Storm Lingling causes problems in Philippines”








Kaye Thomas says: 

			January 22, 2014 at 7:33 am 
I want to stay informed and will be praying.
Reply








Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name 

Mail (will not be published) 

Website












Today's Audio: 




Download:  1min
2min
4-5min
  
About Philippines


Primary Language: Tagalog
Primary Religion: Christianity
Evangelical: 12.3%

More News About Philippines
Info About Philippines
Data from the Joshua Project

About this OrganizationNews for this OrganizationProfile PagePhone: 866 974-5623Web siteBaptist Global Response402 BNA Drive, Suite 411 Nashville, TN37217 Call to actionAsk God to intervene in this situation and stop the rain. Pray for wisdom for the church partners as they figure out how to best help.Ask God to provide the funding, the materials, and the people needed.Related NewsBig plans for 2014National church shutdown underway HCJB Global becomes Reach Beyond 

Tagged: agaton, baptist global response, christ, disaster, gospel, haiyan, lingling, philippines, super typhoon 1 Comment 







Free Resources
Free Resources
Stop by and see!




MNN FEATURED LINKS8 January, 2015To help support Kids Alive Lebanon's refugee work, click here.You can join Haggai's global community by volunteering, supporting their work financially, or by training with them.Support Vision Beyond Borders work around the world.Sign up for Passion 2015! 
Featured Mission Group



Scriptures In Use
Find Out More About This Organization


Christian Aid Mission
Find Out More About This Organization


Vision Beyond Borders
Find Out More About This Organization


Buckner International
Find Out More About This Organization


SAT-7
Find Out More About This Organization


Mission Eurasia
Find Out More About This Organization


Faith Comes By Hearing
Find Out More About This Organization


Open Doors USA
Find Out More About This Organization


Slavic Gospel Association
Find Out More About This Organization





Featured Mission Trip
Hope for India - 11/29/2014
Location: India
Magnificent historical sites attract millions of tourists and students from across India and the world to India's Rajasthan state. But the beautiful architecture can't cure the brokenness they carry with them--a cure that is only found in Jesus. Partnering with national India Campus Crusade for Christ® staff members and local churches, you will have the...
Find Out More About This Trip





Mobile Ad 1





Mobile Ad 2





Mobile Ad 3







« National church shutdown underway
HCJB Global becomes Reach Beyond »





















Login


Username



Password


 Remember Me





Lost your password?





Reset Password


Username or E-mail:







Log in











Greg Yoder
Ruth Kramer
Katey Hearth
 

















