Mediterranean - Latest news on Metro UK 
Mediterranean - Latest news on Metro UK








This site uses cookies. By continuing, your consent is assumed. Learn more














News... but not as you know it

46.6m shares 
Menu
Home
News

UK
World
Weird
Tech


Sport

Football
Oddballs
Club Metro


Entertainment

Showbiz
TV
Film
Music
Gaming
Big Brother 2015
One Direction


Lifestyle

Sex
Fashion
Food
Travel


More

Blogs
Competitions
Jobs
Property


Search Metro

Follow us



 















Mediterranean




Hundreds of migrants feared dead after boat capsizes in the MediterraneanA total of 28 migrants have been rescued so far, and Italian ships and commercial boats have joined in the rescueUnique 'Atlantis' metal found in Mediterranean shipwreckAccording to Plato, this alloy was second only in value to gold in Atlantis and was mined all over the long-gone island.Simon Cowell and Sinitta rescue stranded seafarers with yachtSimon Cowell and long-time friend 
Sinitta came to the rescue after a boat started sinking during their Mediterranean holiday.Scientists believe ‘death carrot’ could provide a means for fighting cancerCould a carrot help fight cancer? Researchers believe a plant found in the Mediterranean may have properties it can manipulate to battle the disease.Rihanna orders in more alcohol and invites Tinie Tempah to party on yachtTinie Tempah has reportedly become the latest eligible bachelor to be invited onto 
Rihanna's luxury super yacht during her apparently never-ending Mediterranean cruise.Britain to bask in Mediterranean temperatures throughout the weekendBritain basked in Mediterranean temperatures yesterday as forecasters said 'wall-to-wall' sunshine will remain over the weekend.











Britain hotter than Mediterranean this week but wet weekend to come



Britons yesterday basked in balmy temperatures of 19C (66F) – making it the warmest day of the year and even hotter than some parts of the Mediterranean.




















Tara Reid gets engaged and married in Greece ‘before Big Brother entry’



Suspected Celebrity Big Brother housemate 
Tara Reid can boast the shortest celeb engagement of all time, after getting hitched in the Mediterranean.

   




















Blueprint Café: Food with a view to die for



Restaurant review: Blueprint Café features gutsy ingredients, Mediterranean cuisine married with traditional British grub and a daily changing menu based on what’s good on the day. What's not to like?

   




















Pregnant Alicia Keys marries Swizz Beatz in Mediterranean




      Pregnant Alicia Keys has married hip-hop producer Swizz Beatz in a Mediterranean ceremony.




















Top holiday destinations changing for Brits in drift away from Mediterranean



Mediterranean resorts will lose their status as the top holiday spots for Britons by the end of next year, according to new research.




















Mediterranean cruise passenger is ‘still seasick after nine years’



Jane Houghton is still struggling to find her ‘land legs’ after taking a Mediterranean cruise – nine years ago.

   




















Victoria Beckham to spend St Tropez holiday watching Louie Spence on DVD



Most celebrities who holiday in St Tropez spend their days soaking up the sun and swimming in the Mediterranean, but 
Victoria Beckham will instead be watching Pineapple Dance Studios on DVD.




















Charlotte Church joins Gavin Henson in Mediterranean to escape UK




      Charlotte Church has fled the country to escape the aftermath of her split with fiancé 
Gavin Henson last week, but it looks like she's headed where he is.




















Two Britons among Beirut plane dead



Two British passport-holders were on board a jet which crashed into the Mediterranean today, the Foreign Office confirmed.

   




















Holiday clubs: The pitfalls



But in reality many of the holidays offered are last-minute, low-star breaks with limited availability. Most of the clubs are focused on the Spanish Costas and other popular Mediterranean resorts. The sales pitchOne of the most popular sales tactics is inviting people to lengthy presentations outlining how the holiday club works and then getting them […]




















Kate Moss rules the waves with a ciggy and a drink



Kate Moss looks happy and relaxed before she makes a splash with a quick dip in the warm waters of the Mediterranean.




















Win a Mediterranean holiday for four people with James Villa Holidays



To celebrate its weekend sale, James Villas is giving one lucky London Lite reader the opportunity to win a Mediterranean family holiday for four people worth up to £3,000.




















Brothel madam refuses to pay back millions



A former brothel madam ordered to pay back millions of pounds from the proceeds of her illicit businesses said today she will not be leave her luxury Mediterranean hideaway to face justice.




















Benefit cheats to be sentenced



A married couple of "disabled" benefit cheats who were caught after investigators found holiday snaps of them on a Mediterranean boat trip are due to be sentenced.




















A trip back in time in Bury St Edmunds



Name:The Angel Where:3 Angel Hill, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1LT Official rating:4 stars Cost:£90 to £150 per night for a standard double Contact:01284 714000, http://www.theangel.co.uk Why go there?For a luxurious stay with the best of ancient Bury St Edmunds right on your doorstep. Highlights:The Vaults, an atmospheric private dining room whose exposed brick walls […]




















Gaza Strip – the bloody battle for a strip of land



The Gaza Strip, bordering the Mediterranean sea between Israel and Egypt, has been described as a "sliver" of land created following the 1948 Arab Israeli war.




















Why England players have had their chips



Fabio Capello has told England's star players to stay off 'ketchup and chips' and follow a Mediterranean diet.




















Glasshouse still not quite ‘destination’



When you think Crowne Plaza hotel, you don't think fine food, gourmet delights, ambitious dishes. You think well-done steak and Mediterranean bakes. Unless, that is, you're Karl Bittner. Having worked at Harvey Nichols and City Inn, he's familiar with the merry-go-round of Mancunian head chefs. When Crowne Plaza announced its intentions in the Northern Quarter, he decided to hop on the carousel.




















Sud Sound System make a musical fusion



London's music scene has already embraced the Latin American fusion of reggaeton - but Sud Sound System offer dancehall rhythms with a more unusual twist: Mediterranean pop and roots.









 

Page 1 of 41234»




 
Must read 




 

















Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy and Cookies
Site map
 

Your ad choices

© 2015 Associated Newspapers LimitedPowered by WordPress.com VIP





 
 








Get us in your feed
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter





































