
      				Struggle over Libya's oil risks breaking up country: rival PM
| Reuters

 

      				Struggle over Libya's oil risks breaking up country: rival PM
| Reuters















Edition:

U.S.

Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom

















Home


Business




Business Home


Legal


Deals


Business Video


Aerospace & Defense


Financial Institutions 


Autos


Reuters Summits






Markets




Markets Home


U.S. Markets


European Markets


Asian Markets


Global Market Data


Indices


Stocks


Bonds




Currencies


Comm & Energy


Futures


Funds


peHUB


Earnings


Dividends






World




World Home


U.S.


Special Reports


Reuters Investigates


Euro Zone


Middle East


China




Japan


Mexico


Brazil


Africa


Russia


India


World Video






Politics




Politics Home


Tales from the Trail


Supreme Court


Politics Video






Tech




Technology Home


Science


Tech Video


Top 100 Global Innovators


Environment






Opinion




Opinion Home


The Great Debate


Data Dive


Morning Bid






Breakingviews




Breakingviews Home


Breakingviews Video






Money




Money Home


Lipper Awards


Global Investing


Unstructured Finance


Linda Stern


Mark Miller


John Wasik


James Saft




Analyst Research


Alerts


Watchlist


Portfolio


Stock Screener


Fund Screener


Personal Finance Video


Retirement






Life




Health


Sports


Arts


Entertainment


Oddly Enough


Faithworld


Lifestyle Video






Pictures




Pictures Home


The Wider Image


Photographers






Video















































World
 | 
Fri Nov 28, 2014 8:40am EST

Related: 

World, 
United Nations, 
Libya


Struggle over Libya's oil risks breaking up country: rival PM

TRIPOLI
 | 
By Ulf Laessing

















                                	Libyan Prime Minister Omar al-Hassi (R) meets with Sudanese Foreign Minister Ali Karti in Tripoli November 10, 2014. 

                                	
                                		Reuters/Ismail Zitouny








TRIPOLI Libya's self-proclaimed prime minister has warned that attempts by a rival government in the east to assert control over the oil industry could escalate the political conflict dividing the  OPEC member state and force it to break in two. Libya has had two governments competing for power since August when a group called Operation Libya Dawn, which opponents say is backed by Islamists, seized Tripoli and forced the elected Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thinni to flee 1,000 km to a small city near the border with Egypt.Both sides have so far avoided talking publicly about prospect of a split.The warning by Omar al-Hassi, prime minister of the rival government, came after Thinni's government claimed air strikes on Tripoli's Mitigate airport this week, escalating a confrontation that started with an attack by Libya Dawn on a rival force in Tripoli in July.The new rulers in the capital are not recognized by the United Nations and world powers but have taken over ministries, oil facilities, airports and much of western and central Libya.In a step to assert control over the oil industry, Thinni's government said on Wednesday it had appointed a new chairman of the National Oil Corp. Thinni had initially retained the state oil firm's previous head, Mustafa Sanallah, but he remains in Tripoli.The conflict gripping Libya three years after the overthrow of Muammar Gaddafi poses a legal dilemma for oil traders, who are left wondering who owns Libya's oil exports, worth more that $10 billion a year. The country sits on Africa's largest oil reserves."Libya's oil has become part of the war," Hassi told Reuters in an interview. "We had hoped that oil would not be part of this conflict."
Hassi said Libya might break up if the international community allowed Thinni to appoint its own NOC chairman and eventually form an eastern oil company.    FUTURE PROBLEM"Helping to create a new oil company means helping to break up Libya," Hassi said late on Thursday, sitting in Thinni's old office. "The West will be responsible for this problem in the future."Hassi said the NOC appointment was an attempt to take over oil facilities in the east with the help of a former general, Khalifa Haftar, whose armed group has merged with the army in the east to fight enemies he describes Islamists. 
"There are attempts (by Thinni) to set up an eastern Supreme Court, there are attempts to launch a central bank in the east, there are attempts to establish a separate oil ministry in the east," said Hassi, who said he was against partition.Thinni's government has sought to move heads of state-run institutions to the east as he is recognized by the international community, but he too denies any plans for secession.But Hassi said Thinni's government had shown it intended to control oil facilities in the eastern rump state by picking al-Mabrook Bou Seif as new NOC Chairman, since he was from the same tribe as Ibrahim Jathran, a former rebel leader who seized eastern ports for a year to press for regional autonomy.Jathran, who reopened the oil ports in April in a deal with Thinni's government, has said he will push for eastern secession if the world recognizes Hassi's government.
Hassi said OPEC had contributed to the escalation by refusing to invite his oil minister, Mashallah Zwai, an invitation to a meeting on Thursday attended by Thinni's delegation.Hassi said Turkey might mediate between the two sides as it had a direct interest due to its large business interests in Libya. The United Nations has started a dialogue but talks have gone nowhere, diplomats say."Everybody respects Turkey. Turkey wants a quick solution to Libya's problem so it can start investing. The Turkish state thinks of the economy," Hassi said."Turkey uses quiet language, good language and demonstrates good political thinking. It gives both sides the chance for dialogue, which is very important," he said. "They think in a balanced way."Turkey is one of the few countries to have met top Hassi officials publicly. Ankara, which has also good relations with Thinni, had also invited Zwai to a business forum."We are open to dialogue," said Hassi. "This conflict cannot be solved by war." (Reporting by Ulf Laessing; Editing by Giles Elgood)






























Trending On Reuters


Photos of the dayOur top news photos from the last 24 hours.  Slideshow On board a Rohingya boatFrontlines of Syria Oil spill in California  Sleeping volcano awakens Farewell for Letterman 



























Reuters


Back to top






Reuters.com
Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index


More from Reuters
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options


Support & Contact
Support
Corrections


Account Information
Register
Sign In


Connect with Reuters
Twitter
Facebook
Linkedin
RSS
Podcast
Newsletters
Mobile


About
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright








Thomson Reuters



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution
A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance
Our next generation legal research platform
Our global tax workstation




Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.






















X






