Mediterranean Shipwreck Kills 40 Before a Rescue - NYTimes.com 



Mediterranean Shipwreck Kills 40 Before a Rescue - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Europe|Mediterranean Shipwreck Kills 40 Before a Rescue
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1JoniVj




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Europe 
Mediterranean Shipwreck Kills 40 Before a Rescue

By JIM YARDLEY and ELISABETTA POVOLEDOMAY 5, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






A body was removed from a merchant ship in the Sicilian port of Catania on Tuesday. Survivors picked up by the ship said about 40 people died when their rubber boat sank before help arrived.

Credit
            Antonio Parrinello/Reuters        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
ROME —  A rubber boat crowded with migrants deflated and foundered in the Mediterranean, and as many as 40 people apparently drowned before an approaching merchant ship could reach them, witnesses told the humanitarian group Save the Children on Tuesday.Counting the latest shipwreck, the death toll for migrants trying to cross the Mediterranean to Europe this year is now more than 1,800. Even so, the number of people attempting the crossing on smuggler boats is rising sharply. The Italian authorities reported that nearly 6,000 people were rescued in the Mediterranean in a 48-hour period over the weekend, including a woman who gave birth to a baby girl on an Italian naval vessel. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Young African Migrants Caught in Trafficking MachineMAY 5, 2015












Displaced Again and Again, Some African Migrants Had No Plan to Land in ItalyMAY 1, 2015












Before Dangers at Sea, African Migrants Face Perils of a Lawless LibyaAPRIL 27, 2015












Migration Crisis Puts Europe’s Policy Missteps Into Focus, Experts SayAPRIL 24, 2015







The situation has become a humanitarian crisis for Europe, especially after an overloaded vessel capsized during a rescue attempt last month, drowning at least 700 people near the Libyan coast. European leaders responded by tripling their budget for search and rescue operations and by promising to crack down on traffickers, but critics called the response inadequate.
Continue reading the main story
Video

Migrants Rescued From Dinghy at Sea

A video showing migrants in an overcrowded rubber dinghy in the Mediterranean scrambling to reach a line lowered to them from a vessel on Sunday.

                By AP on                                                    Publish Date May 5, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by Associated Press.
                            



The latest sinking occurred on Sunday morning. Survivors who arrived in the Sicilian port of Catania on Tuesday and spoke to Save the Children representatives gave this account: Smugglers launched two rubber boats full of migrants from the Libyan coast, and one of them, carrying 105 migrants, was safely rescued at sea by a passing merchant ship. But the second boat, with 197 people, began to steadily lose air, until some people crowded near the edges fell into the sea. Giovanna Di Benedetto, a Save the Children representative in Catania who spoke to survivors, cautioned that the authorities still needed to verify the details. 
Continue reading the main story








                    OPEN Graphic                



            Graphic: What’s Behind the Surge in Refugees Crossing the Mediterranean Sea        


“Shipwrecks have tragically become a daily occurrence,” Ms. Di Benedetto said. “We appeal to Europe to finally establish a system that will carry out search and rescue missions at sea.”
Photo






Rescuers recovering the bodies Sunday of migrants from a raft in the Mediterranean.

Credit
            Associated Press        


Libya has emerged as a haven for smuggling groups, which are making millions of dollars from desperate migrants whom they load into dangerous fishing boats or rubber vessels and send north toward Europe. Survivors of the episode on Sunday said that most of the migrants on the two rubber boats were from Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal or Zambia, and that several were children.
Photo






The Italian Navy released a photograph of the baby girl who was born on the navy patrol ship Bettica over the weekend.

Credit
            Italian Navy Press Office, via Associated Press        


Hundreds of rescued migrants now arrive almost every day in Sicily. Many are Syrians or Eritreans hoping to slip through Italy and reach northern Europe, where asylum benefits tend to be more generous. But there has been a noticeable increase this year in migrants from sub-Saharan Africa, including men who were working in Libya but fled because of rising violence and instability there.More than 1,200 migrants have been delivered to the small Sicilian port of Pozzallo since Sunday, including several hundred rescued by a private humanitarian group, the Migrant Offshore Aid Station, which is based in Malta.The Italian Navy released a photograph of the baby girl who was born on the navy patrol ship Bettica over the weekend. The captain, Vincenzo Pascale, told Italian state news media that the mother, a Nigerian, gave birth after six hours of labor with the assistance of a midwife. A photograph of the infant was published widely by news outlets, especially in Italy and Britain, where her humble birth was contrasted with that of the new British princess, Charlotte.Initially, the Italian news agency ANSA reported, the authorities were calling the baby Francesca Marina, with the first name honoring Pope Francis and the second “in honor of the navy,” Captain Pascale said.But it appears that the mother has other ideas. She is said to have decided on a different name for her new daughter: Gift.


A version of this article appears in print on May 6, 2015, on page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Mediterranean Shipwreck Kills 40 Before a Rescue .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












