Hundreds of Migrants Are Feared Dead as Ship Capsizes Off Libyan Coast - NYTimes.com 



Hundreds of Migrants Are Feared Dead as Ship Capsizes Off Libyan Coast - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Europe|Hundreds of Migrants Are Feared Dead as Ship Capsizes Off Libyan Coast
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1yHiXMw




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Europe 
Hundreds of Migrants Are Feared Dead as Ship Capsizes Off Libyan Coast

By JIM YARDLEYAPRIL 19, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






A video still shows an Italian Coast Guard vessel during a search-and-rescue operation in the Mediterranean Sea on Sunday.

Credit
            Italian Coast Guard, via Associated Press        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
ROME —  Hundreds of people were feared dead on Sunday after a ship crowded with migrants capsized and sank in the Mediterranean, as the authorities described a grisly scene of bodies floating and submerging in the warm waters, with the majority of the dead apparently trapped in the ship at the bottom of the sea.The fatal shipwreck may prove to be the Mediterranean’s deadliest migrant disaster ever and is only the latest tragedy in Europe’s migration crisis. Warmer spring weather has unleashed a torrent of smuggler boats, mostly from Libya, bearing migrants and refugees from the Middle East and Africa, often fleeing war and poverty for a foothold in Europe.Death at sea has become a grimly common occurrence: Even before this weekend’s sinking, humanitarian groups estimated that 900 migrants had already died this year, compared with 90 during the same period a year ago. That figure could rise sharply, as officials estimate that 700 people may have drowned in the weekend disaster. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Rising Toll on Migrants Leaves Europe in Crisis; 900 May Be Dead at SeaAPRIL 20, 2015








World Briefing: Italy: 400 May Have Drowned in Capsizing of Migrant ShipAPRIL 14, 2015












Rescued African Migrants Recount Ordeal in Mediterranean FEB. 11, 2015







The rising death toll is renewing criticism of the European response, especially the Triton program, introduced in November to patrol the Mediterranean and rescue migrants. United Nations officials and humanitarian groups have argued that Triton is too limited in scope and resources and thus is placing migrants at grave risk.
Continue reading the main story
















SARDINIA


ITALY


Mediterranean Sea


SICILY


Tunis


MALTA


Lampedusa


TUNISIA


Approximate area
of sinking


Tripoli


LIBYA


100 miles








 


APRIL 19, 2015
            By The New York Times        


Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy, speaking Sunday, blamed human traffickers who smuggle migrants on rickety ships, describing them as “the slave drivers of the 21st century.”Mr. Renzi conferred with European leaders on Sunday and has called for an emergency summit meeting to discuss the migration crisis and how Europe can help bring political stability to Libya, where criminal smuggling gangs are operating freely.Only 24 bodies had been recovered by Sunday evening, and Joseph Muscat, the prime minister of Malta, the island nation not far from the African coastline, said that 28 passengers had been rescued. He also called for global action to stabilize Libya.“The amount of people we’ve seen coming, and how it has been organized in the past few months, is unprecedented,” Mr. Muscat said in a telephone interview. “We’ve just seen 700 people die. If we don’t get our act together on Libya, we’ll see more.”For the past several years, Europe has been confronted with hundreds of thousands of migrants arriving illegally from Africa and the Middle East. Italy has been in the vanguard of rescue efforts, with its Navy and Coast Guard ships rescuing more than 130,000 people last year in a widely praised program known as Mare Nostrum.The Italian program began in October 2013 as an emergency response to a shipwreck that killed more than 360 people near the Italian island of Lampedusa.
Photo






Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy, center, on Sunday said Europe was witnessing “systematic slaughter in the Mediterranean.”

Credit
            Tiziana Fabi/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        


But Mare Nostrum was phased out last autumn and replaced by the European-led Triton, which has fewer ships and a less well-defined mandate. António Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, called Sunday for Europe to expand its rescue and patrol program as well as the legal avenues for migration to Europe so that people would not have to risk their lives at sea.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
“It also points to the need for a comprehensive European approach to address the root causes that drive so many people to this tragic end,” Mr. Guterres said in a statement. “I hope the E.U. will rise to the occasion, fully assuming a decisive role to prevent future such tragedies.”In European capitals, leaders pledged to confront the crisis. President François Hollande of France told the French news media that Europe needed “more boats, more aerial surveillance and a much tougher fight against traffickers.” In Spain, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy told supporters at a political rally that “words won’t do anymore.”“As Europeans we are gambling with our credibility if we aren’t able to stop these dramatic situations that are now happening on a daily basis,” he said.Even as European leaders debate how best to respond at sea, the weekend shipwreck does not appear to be a case of a slow response. Italian officials say they received an emergency call on Saturday night that a large migrant boat had been spotted 70 miles off the Libyan coast, and about 130 miles from Lampedusa.As often happens, the Italian authorities ordered the commercial ship closest to the scene — in this case, the freighter King Jacob — to respond until rescue ships could arrive. But when the King Jacob came in view of the migrant boat early on Sunday morning, people apparently rushed to one side, trying to attract attention, according to Italian and Maltese officials.
Photo






A monitor in the operation room of the Coast Guard showing the ships navigating the area where the migrant boat sank.

Credit
            Angelo Carconi/ANSA, via Associated Press        


“There was some commotion on board,” said Mr. Muscat, the Maltese prime minister. “They tried to make a signal to the ship, and the boat capsized.”In many cases, smugglers’ boats are old and relatively small, and carry fewer than 200 people. But Mr. Muscat said this ship had multiple tiers and was teeming with people. Maltese rescuers reported seeing bodies floating and sinking in the water.“It was quite large, with two stories,” Mr. Muscat said of the boat. “Most of the people who died are still trapped in the ship.”By midday Sunday, more than 17 vessels were searching for survivors, led by the Italian Coast Guard, vessels in the Triton program and several merchant boats. While relatively few bodies had been recovered, Italian prosecutors said a Bangladeshi survivor described hundreds being locked in the ship’s hold and estimated that 950 people had been on board, The Associated Press reported. The prosecutors emphasized that his account had not been confirmed.Political leaders clearly expected the worst. Mr. Renzi returned to Rome from northern Italy on Sunday to oversee the response and said Europe was witnessing “systemic slaughter in the Mediterranean.”Federica Mogherini, an Italian who is the European Union’s foreign policy chief, announced that migration would be discussed on Monday in Luxembourg at a meeting of European Union foreign ministers.“We have said too many times ‘Never again,’ ” she said. “Now is time for the European Union as such to tackle these tragedies without delay.”In Vatican City, Pope Francis, who has spoken repeatedly about the plight of migrants, used his Sunday address to call for European Union leaders to take action “decisively and quickly to stop these tragedies from recurring.”“These are men and women like us, our brothers seeking a better life, starving, persecuted, wounded, exploited, victims of war,” the pope said. “They were looking for a better life.”


Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting from Siena, Italy.
A version of this article appears in print on April 20, 2015, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Migrants Killed as Ship Capsizes Off Libyan Coast.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












