Culture of The Philippines - history, people, clothing, traditions, women, beliefs, food, customs, family
Culture of The Philippines - history, people, clothing, traditions, women, beliefs, food, customs, family











Powered by
			
				JRank
			
		



Countries and Their Cultures


Countries and Their Cultures
		» No-Sa
		
			» Culture of The Philippines
		
	





      The Philippines
    


 







      Culture Name
    

      Filipino
    



      Orientation
    



          Identification.
        

       The Republic of the Philippines was named the Filipinas to honor King
      Philip the Second of Spain in 1543. The Philippine Islands was the name
      used before independence.
    









          Location and Geography.
        

       The Republic of the Philippines, a nation of 7,107 islands with a total
      area of 111,830 square miles (307,055 square kilometers), is located on
      the Pacific Rim of Southeast Asia. Two thousand of its islands are
      inhabited. Luzon, the largest island with one-third of the land and half
      the population, is in the north. Mindanao, the second largest island, is
      in the south. The Philippines are 1,152 miles (1,854 kilometers) long from
      north to south. The width is 688 miles (1,107 kilometers). There are no
      land boundaries; the country is bordered on the west by the South China
      Sea, on the east by the Philippine Sea, on the south by the Celebes Sea,
      and on the north by the Luzon Strait, which separates the country from its
      nearest neighbor, Taiwan. The closest nations to the south are Malaysia
      and Indonesia. Vietnam and China are the nearest neighbors on the mainland
      of Asia.
    

      The islands are volcanic in origin. Mount Mayon in southern Luzon erupted
      in 2000. Mount Pinatubo in central Luzon erupted in 1991 and 1992. Both
      eruptions caused destruction of villages and farms and displaced thousands
      of people from their tribal homelands. Because the country is volcanic,
      the small islands have a mountainous center with coastal plains. Luzon has
      a broad central valley in the northern provinces along the Cagayan River
      and plains in the midlands near Manila, the capital. Mindanao and Panay
      also have central plains. Northern Luzon has two major mountain ranges:
      the Sierra Madres on the eastern coast and the Cordilleras in the center.
      The highest peak is Mount Apo in Mindanao at 9,689 feet (2,954 meters).
    

      The weather is hot because of the country's closeness to the
      equator. The temperatures are constant except during typhoons. The dry
      season is from January to June; the wet season with monsoon rains is from
      July to December. Temperatures are cooler in November through January,
      dropping below 30 degrees Celsius (85 degrees Fahrenheit). The summer
      months of April and May have temperatures in excess of 39 degrees Celsius
      (100 degrees Fahrenheit). Typhoons occur from June through November.
    



          Demography.
        

       The estimated population in July 2000 was eighty-one million. The average
      life expectancy is sixty-seven years. Four percent of the population is
      over age sixty-five. The most populous area is Metropolitan Manila, where
      eight million to ten million people live.
    



          Linguistic Affiliation.
        

       The official languages are Filipino, which is based on Tagalog with words
      from other native languages, and English. Since only 55 percent of
      residents speak Filipino fluently, English is used in colleges,
      universities, the courts, and the government. The country's seventy
      to eighty dialects are derived from Malay languages. Three dialects are of
      national importance: Cebuano in the southern islands, Ilocano in the
      north, and Tagalog, the language of the National Capital Region. When
      Tagalog was chosen as the basis for a national language, Cebuanos refused
      to use Filipino. "Taglish," a mixture of Filipino and
      English, is becoming a standard language. Filipinos are proud that their
      country has the third largest number of English speakers in the world.
      Filipino English includes many Australian and British terms. It is a
      formal language that includes words no longer commonly used in American
      English. Spanish was taught as a compulsory language until 1968 but is
      seldom used today. Spanish numbers and some Spanish words are included in
      the dialects.
    





            Philippines
          



      The dependence on English causes concern, but since Filipino does not have
      words for scientific or technological terms, English is likely to remain
      in common use.
    



          Symbolism.
        

       National symbols have been emphasized since independence to create a
      sense of nationhood. The Philippine eagle, the second largest eagle in the
      world, is the national bird. Doctor Jose Rizal is the national hero. Rizal
      streets and statues of Rizal are found in most towns and cities. Several
      municipalities are named for Rizal. The most prominent symbol is the flag,
      which has a blue horizontal band, a red horizontal band, and a white
      field. The flag is flown with the blue band at the top in times of peace
      and the red band at the top in times of war. Flag ceremonies take place
      once a week at all governmental offices. Schools have a flag ceremony each
      morning. All traffic stops while the flag is being honored. The national
      anthem is sung, a national pledge is recited in Filipino, and the
      provincial hymn is sung.
    



      History and Ethnic Relations
    



          Emergence of the Nation.
        

       Early inhabitants are believed to have reached the area over land bridges
      connecting the islands to Malaysia and China. The first people were the
      Negritos, who arrived twenty-five thousand years ago. Later immigrants
      came from Indonesia. After the land bridges disappeared, immigrants from
      Indo-China brought copper and bronze and built the rice terraces at Benaue
      in northern Luzon. The next wave came from Malaysia and is credited with
      developing agriculture and introducing 
      
        carabao
      
       (water buffalo) as draft animals. Trade with China began in the first
      century 
      
        C.E.
      
       Filipino ores and wood were traded for finished products.
    

      In 1380, the "Propagation of Islam" began in the Sulu
      Islands and Mindanao, where Islam remains the major religion. The Muslim
      influence had spread as far north as Luzon when Ferdinand Magellan arrived
      in 1521 to claim the archipelago for Spain. Magellan was killed soon
      afterward when a local chief, Lapu-Lapu, refused to accept Spanish rule
      and Christianity. Miguel Lopez de Legazpi landed in the Philippines in
      1564 and consolidated Spanish power, designating Manila as the capital in
      1572. Roman Catholic religious orders began Christianizing the populace,
      but the Sulu Islands and Mindanao remained Muslim. The Spanish governed
      those areas through a treaty with the sultan of Mindanao. The Spanish did
      not attempt to conquer the deep mountain regions of far northern Luzon.
    

      The occupation by Spain and the unifying factor of Catholicism were the
      first steps in creating a national identity. Filipinos became interested
      in attaining independence in the middle of the nineteenth century. In the
      1890's, the novels of José Rizal, his exile to a remote
      island, and his execution by the Spaniards created a national martyr and a
      rallying 
       point for groups seeking independence. Armed attacks and propaganda
      increased, with an initial success that waned as Spanish reinforcements
      arrived. The Spanish-American War of 1898 and the defeat of the Spanish
      fleet in Manila Bay led the Filipino leader Emilio Aguinaldo to declare
      independence from Spain. The United States paid twenty million dollars to
      the Spanish for the Philippines under the Treaty of Paris. Aguinaldo did
      not accept United States occupation and fought until the Filipino forces
      were defeated. In 1902, the Philippines became an American territory, with
      the future president William Howard Taft serving as the first territorial
      governor. Over the next two decades, American attitudes toward the
      Philippines changed and the islands were given commonwealth status in
      1933. Independence was promised after twelve years, with the United States
      retaining rights to military bases.
    

      The Japanese invaded the Philippines early in 1942 and ruled until 1944.
      Filipino forces continued to wage guerrilla warfare. The return of U.S.
      forces ended the Japanese occupation. After the war, plans for
      independence were resumed. The Republic of the Philippines became an
      independent nation on 4 July 1946.
    

      The new nation had to recover economically from the destruction caused by
      World War II. Peasant groups wanted the huge land holdings encouraged by
      the Spanish and Americans broken apart. In 1955, Congress passed the first
      law to distribute land to farmers.
    

      Ferdinand Marcos governed from 1965 to 1986, which was the longest period
      for one president. From 1972 to 1981, he ruled by martial law. Marcos was
      reelected in 1982, but a strong opposition movement emerged. When the
      leader of the opposition, Benigno Aquino, was murdered after his return
      from exile in the United States, his wife, Corazon Aquino, entered the
      presidential race in 1986. Marcos claimed victory but was accused of
      fraud. That accusation and the withdrawal of United States support for
      Marcos led to "People Power," a movement in which the
      residents of Manila protested the Marcos regime. The Filipino military
      supported Aquino, who was declared president, and the Marcos family went
      into exile in Hawaii.
    

      The Aquino years saw the passage of a new constitution with term limits
      and the withdrawal of U.S. military forces in 1991, when the government
      did not grant a new lease for United States use of military bases.
    

      Fidel Ramos, the first Protestant president, served from 1991 to 1998.
      Major problems included a fall in the value of the peso and the demands of
      Muslim groups in Mindanao for self-determination and/or independence. The
      government offered self-governance and additional funds, and the movement
      quieted.
    

      Joseph "Erap" Estrada was elected for one six-year term in
      1999. The demands of the Muslim rebels escalated, culminating with the
      kidnaping of twenty-nine people by the Abu Sayyaf group in April 2000.
      Late in the year 2000, impeachment proceedings were brought against
      Estrada, who was charged with financial corruption.
    



          National Identity.
        

       Filipinos had little sense of national identity until the revolutionary
      period of the nineteenth century. The word "Filipino" did
      not refer to native people until the mid-nineteenth century. Before that
      period, the treatment of the islands as a single governmental unit by
      Spain and the conversion of the population to Catholicism were the
      unifying factors. As a desire for independence grew, a national flag was
      created, national heroes emerged, and a national anthem was written. A
      national language was designated in 1936. National costumes were
      established. The sense of a national identity is fragile, with true
      allegiance given to a kin group, a province, or a municipality.
    



          Ethnic Relations.
        

       Ninety-five percent of the population is of Malay ancestry. The other
      identifiable group is of Chinese ancestry. Sino-Filipinos are envied for
      their success in business. They have maintained their own schools, which
      stress Chinese traditions.
    

      Seventy to eighty language groups separate people along tribal lines.
      Approximately two million residents are designated as cultural minority
      groups protected by the government. The majority of those sixty ethnic
      groups live in the mountains of northern Luzon. People whose skin is
      darker are considered less capable, intelligent, and beautiful.
      Descendants of the Negritos tribe are regarded as inferior.
    



      Urbanism, Architecture, and the Use of Space
    

      The architecture of the islands shows Spanish influence. Spanish brick
      churches built during the colonial era dominate the towns. The churches
      are large and different from traditional construction. It is difficult to
      imagine how the indigenous population in the seventeenth century was able
      to build them. 
      



            Filipino families enjoy close kin bonds, and extended families
            living together are the norm.
          


       Seaports and government centers had a larger proportion of Spanish
      buildings with wide verandas and tiled roofs. Towns destroyed during the
      liberation campaign in World War II, especially in central and northern
      Luzon, were rebuilt using wood. Areas of Manila destroyed during World War
      II have been restored to their historical Spanish appearance. Newer
      buildings in Manila range from standard multistory offices to
      Western-style gated housing areas for the affluent, to tenements and
      shacks.
    
    
      Traditional houses in rural areas are 
      
        nipa
      
       huts constructed of bamboo and roofed with leaves from palm trees or
      corrugated metal. Cinder blocks are the most commonly building material
      used. The blocks are plastered and painted on the inside and outside when
      funds permit. Plasterers add decorative touches to the exterior. Older
      houses have a "dirty" open-air kitchen for food preparation.
      Newer, larger houses designate a room as a dirty kitchen in contrast to
      the "clean" kitchen, which has an eating area where utensils
      are stored. Enclosed kitchens provide a roof over the cook and keep dogs
      and chickens from wandering into the cooking area. The roof is pitched so
      that rain will run off. Middle-class houses and commercial buildings have
      tiled roofs.
    



      Food and Economy
    



          Food in Daily Life.
        

       Filipinos do not consider it a meal if rice is not served. Plain steamed
      rice is the basis of the diet. Three crops a year are harvested to provide
      enough rice for the population, and the government keeps surpluses stored
      for times of drought. Salt water and freshwater of fish and shellfish are
      eaten daily, served either fresh or salted. Fish, chicken and pork are
      usually fried, although people are becoming more health-conscious and
      often choose alternative methods of cooking. Garlic is added to food
      because it is considered healthful. Filipino food is not spicy. All food
      is cooked on gas burners or wood or charcoal fires and is allowed to get
      cold before it is eaten. Rice is cooked first, since it takes longer. When
      it is ready, rice will be placed on the table while the next items of the
      meal are prepared and served.
    

      Table knives are not used. Forks and spoons are used for dining. The food
      is eaten from a spoon. The traditional method of placing food on a banana
      leaf and eating with one's hands is also used throughout the
      country. It is acceptable to eat food with one's hands at
      restaurants as well as in the home.
    

      Breakfast is served at 6 
      
        A.M.
      
       and consists of food left over from the night before. It is not reheated.
      Eggs and sausage are served on special occasions. 
       Small buns called 
      
        pan de sol
      
       may be purchased from vendors early in the morning.
    

      At midmorning and in the afternoon, people eat 
      
        merienda.
      
       Since Filipinos are fond of sweet foods, a mixture of instant coffee,
      evaporated milk, and sugar may be served. Coca-Cola is very popular. Sweet
      rolls, doughnuts, or a noodle dish may be available. Lunch is a light meal
      with rice and one other dish, often a fish or meat stew. Fish, pork, or
      chicken is served at dinner with a soup made of lentils or vegetables.
      Fatty pork is a favorite. Portions of small cubes of browned pork fat are
      considered a special dish.
    

      Fruits are abundant all year. Several kinds of banana are eaten, including
      red and green varieties. Mangoes, the national fruit, are sweet and juicy.
      A fruit salad with condensed milk and coconut milk is very popular on
      special occasions.
    

      Vegetables are included as part of a soup or stew. Green beans and
      potatoes are commonly eaten foods. The leaves of 
      
        camote,
      
       a sweet potato, are used as a salad and soup ingredient. 
      
        Ube,
      
       a bland bright purple potato, is used as a colorful ingredient in cakes
      and ice cream. 
      
        Halo-halo,
      
       which means "mixture," is a popular dessert that consists
      of layers of corn kernels, ice cream, small gelatin pieces, cornflakes and
      shaved ice. 
      
        Patis,
      
       a very salty fish sauce, is placed on the table to be added to any of the
      dishes.
    

      Fast food has become part of the culture, with national and international
      chains in many towns. All meals at fast-food restaurant include rice,
      although French fries also tend to be on the menu. Banana ketchup is
      preferred, although the international chains serve tomato ketchup. A
      national chain, Jollibee, has entered the U.S. market with a restaurant in
      California, where many Filipino immigrants live. The company plans to
      expand to other cities with Filipino populations.
    



          Food Customs at Ceremonial Occasions.
        


        Léchon, 
      
       a suckling pig that has been roasted until the skin forms a hard brown
      crust, is served at important occasions. The inside is very fatty. Strips
      of the skin with attached fat are considered the best pieces. The
      importance of the host and the occasion are measured by the amount of 
      
        léchon.
      
       served. Blood drained from the pig is used to make 
      
        dinuguan
      


      Sticky rice prepared with coconut milk and sugarcane syrup is wrapped in
      banana leaves. Glutinous rice is grown especially for use in this
      traditional dessert.
    

      Gin and beer are available for men and are accompanied by 
      
        balut,
      
       a duck egg with an embryo. Dog meat is a delicacy throughout the country.
      It is now illegal to sell dog meat at markets because cases of rabies have
      occurred when the brains were eaten.
    



          Basic Economy.
        

       Agriculture, forestry, and fishing are the occupations of 40 percent of
      the thirty million people who are employed. Light manufacturing,
      construction, mining and the service industries provide the remainder of
      employment opportunities. The unemployment rate is over 9 percent. Fifty
      percent of the population lives below the poverty line. The Asian
      financial crisis resulted in a lack of jobs, and the drought period of the
      El Niño weather cycle has reduced the number of agricultural
      positions. It is not uncommon for people to "volunteer" as
      workers in the health care field in hopes of being chosen to work when a
      position becomes available. People work seven days a week and take
      additional jobs to maintain or improve their lifestyle or pay for a
      child's education. Eight hundred thousand citizens work overseas,
      primarily as merchant seamen, health care, household, or factory workers
      in Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Over Seas Workers (OSWs) have a
      governmental agency that looks after their interests. Laws govern hours of
      work, insurance coverage, and vacation time, but workers may be exploited
      and mistreated. Recruitment centers are found in all large municipalities.
      OSWs send $7 billion home each year, providing 4 percent of the gross
      domestic product.
    



          Land Tenure and Property.
        

       Nineteen percent of the land is arable and 46 percent consists of forests
      and woodlands. Deforestation by legal and illegal loggers with no tree
      replacement has reduced the number of trees. Large amounts of arable land
      remain in the hand of absentee landowners who were given land grants
      during the Spanish colonial period. Although land reform legislation has
      been passed, loopholes allow owners to retain possession. Those
      responsible for enacting and enforcing the legislation often come from the
      same families that own the land. Peasant groups such as the HUKs
      (People's Liberation Army, or 
      
        Hukbong Magpapayang Bayan
      
      ) in the 1950s and the NPA (New People's Army) at the present time
      have resorted to guerrilla tactics to provide land for the poor. There is
      an ongoing demand to clear forests to provide farmland. The clearing
      technique is slash and burn. Environmentalists are concerned because
      timber is destroyed at random, eliminating the homes of endangered species
      of plants and animals.
    



          Commercial Activities.
        

       The local market is a key factor in retail trade. Larger municipalities
      have daily markets, while smaller communities have 
      



            Philippine children playing on Guimaras Island. Young children
            typically live with grandparents or aunts for extended periods.
          


       markets once or twice a week. Trade at the market is conducted in a
      barter system. 
      
        Suki
      
       relationships are established at the marketplace so that the buyer
      returns to the same vendor. Markets are divided into "dry"
      markets where clothing and household items are sold and
      "wet" markets where food is sold. 
      
        Sari-sari
      
       establishments are small neighborhood stores. They are convenient since
      they have packaged products and are in the neighborhood, but no fresh
      foods are available there. In larger towns, supermarkets with fixed prices
      are adjacent to the market. Electronic equipment, furniture, and clothing
      have fixed prices and are sold in stores or at kiosks. Shopping malls are
      found in most provincial capitals. Malls with Western shops are found
      throughout metropolitan Manila.
    
    


          Major Industries.
        

       Metropolitan Manila is the primary manufacturing area, with 10 percent of
      the population living there. Manila and the adjacent ports are the best
      equipped to ship manufactured goods. Manufacturing plants produce
      electrical and electronic components, chemicals, clothing, and machinery.
      The provinces produce processed foods, textiles, tobacco products, and
      construction materials. Manufacturing in the home continues to be common
      in remote areas.
    



          Trade.
        

       Rice, bananas, cashews, pineapple, mangoes, and coconut products are the
      agricultural products exported to neighboring countries. Exported
      manufactured products include electronic equipment, machinery, and
      clothing. The United States, members of the European Union, and Japan are
      the major trading partners. Imports consists of consumer goods and fuel.
      The country has mineral and petroleum reserves that have not been
      developed because of the mountainous terrain and a lack of funding.
    

      Transportation of products is difficult since the highway system beyond
      metropolitan Manila consists of two-lane roads that are under constant
      repair and sometimes are washed out by typhoons. Interisland shipping
      costs add to the expense of manufacturing. Congress, governmental
      agencies, and the financial community are attempting to find solutions to
      these problems. The rate of road construction is accelerating and a light
      rail system is planned. Filipino membership in the Association of South
      East Asian Nations (ASEAN), a regional trade organization, is an important
      factor in the development of trade policies.
    



          Division of Labor.
        

       In rural areas, lack of mechanization causes the entire family to work in
      the rice fields. Planting rice seedlings, separating them, replanting, 
       and changing water levels in the fields are done by hand and are
      labor-intensive. Crops such as tobacco, corn, and sugarcane demand full
      family participation for short periods during the planting and harvest
      seasons.
    

      In the cities, traditional roles common to industrialized countries are
      followed. Men perform heavy physical tasks, while women work as clerks and
      teachers and in health care.
    



      Social Stratification
    



          Classes and Castes.
        

       Filipinos believe in the need for social acceptance and feel that
      education can provide upward mobility. Color of skin, beauty, and money
      are the criteria that determine a person's social position. Light
      coloring is correlated with intelligence and a light-skinned attractive
      person will receive advancement before his or her colleagues. Family
      position and patron-client associations are useful in achieving success.
      Government officials, wealthy friends, and community leaders are sponsors
      at hundreds of weddings and baptisms each year. Those connections are of
      great importance.
    

      There is a gap between the 2 percent of the population that is wealthy and
      the masses who live in poverty. The middle class feels too obligated to
      those in power to attempt to make societal changes.
    

      The people of the Philippines enjoy watching professional basketball
      played by American professional teams and teams in Filipino professional
      leagues. Basketball courts are the only sport-site found in every 
      
        barangay
      
       and school. Cockfights are a popular sport among men. Cocks have metal
      spurs attached to the leg just above the foot. The contest continues until
      one of the cocks is unable to continue fighting or runs away. Cuneta
      Astrodome in metropolitan Manila is used for both professional basketball
      and cockfights. Mah-jongg, a Chinese game played with tiles, is very
      popular, especially with women.
    



          Symbols of Social Stratification.
        

       Money to buy consumer goods is an indicator of power. Wealthy people lead
      western lifestyles. They travel abroad frequently and pride themselves on
      the number of Westerners they have as friends. Since few people outside
      Manila have a family car, owning a vehicle is a clear statement of a high
      social level. Houses and furnishings show a person's social
      position. Upholstered furniture instead of the traditional wooden couches
      and beds, rows of electrical appliances that are never used and area rugs
      are all important.
    

      Women above the poverty level have extensive wardrobes. Sending
      one's children to the best schools is the most important indicator
      of social position. The best schools often are private schools and are
      quite expensive.
    



      Political Life
    



          Government.
        

       The country has a republican form of government that was developed during
      the commonwealth period. It contains three branches: executive,
      legislative, and judicial. The first constitution, based on the United
      States Constitution, was written in 1935. When President Marcos declared
      martial law in 1972, that constitution was replaced by another one
      providing for a head of state, a prime minister, and a unicameral
      legislature. The president had the power to dissolve the legislature,
      appoint the prime minister, and declare himself prime minister. A new
      constitution was approved in a national referendum in 1987. It was similar
      to the 1935 constitution but included term limitations. The 221 members of
      the House may serve three consecutive three-year terms, which is also the
      case for provincial governors. The twenty-four senators, who are elected
      at large, may serve two consecutive six-year terms. The president serves
      one six-year term, but the vice president may serve two consecutive
      six-year terms. The president and vice president do not run on the same
      ticket and may be political opponents.
    

      The seventy provinces have governors but no legislative bodies. Over sixty
      cities have been created by legislation. Cityhood is desirable since
      cities are funded separately from the provinces so that additional federal
      money comes into the area. Each province is divided into municipalities.
      The smallest unit of government is the barangay, which contains up to two
      hundred dwellings and an elementary school. The barangay captain
      distributes funds at the local level.
    



          Leadership and Political Officials.
        

       Charges of corruption, graft, and cronyism are common among government
      officials at all levels. People accept cronyism and the diversion of a
      small percentage of funds as natural. Rewriting the constitution to
      eliminate term limits and establishing a strong two-party system are the
      reforms that are discussed most often. Politicians move from party to
      party as the needs of their constituencies dictate because the political
      parties have no ideologies.
    

      Many of the people who are currently active in politics were politically
      active in the commonwealth era. Men of rank in the military also move into
      the 
      



            A house belonging to a family of the Igorot tribe in Bontoc. The
            Philippines are home to approximately sixty ethnic groups in seventy
            to eighty language groups.
          


       political arena. Joseph Estrada, whose term as president is
      1998–2004, entered the public eye as a popular film star. He then
      became the mayor of a large city and went on to become vice president in
      the Ramos administration. Previous presidents have had political or
      military backgrounds, with the exception of Corazon Aquino, the president
      from 1986 to 1992, who became politically active after her husband was
      assassinated.
    
    


          Social Problems and Control.
        

       The formal system of law mirrors that of the United States. A police
      force, which has been part of the army since 1991, and a system of trials,
      appeals, and prisons are the components of the apparatus for dealing with
      crime. Theft is the most common crime. Because the Philippines has a cash
      economy, thieves and pick-pockets can easily gain access to thousands of
      pesos. Petty thieves are unlikely to be apprehended unless a theft is
      discovered immediately. Another common crime is murder, which often is
      committed under the influence of alcohol. Guns are readily available.
      Incest is punished severely if the victim is younger than fifteen years
      old. Capital punishment by lethal injection was restored during the Ramos
      administration. Six executions of men convicted of incest have taken place
      since 1998. Illicit drugs are found throughout the archipelago but are
      more common in the capital area and the tourist centers. Marijuana and
      hashish are exported.
    

      An ongoing concern is the desire for autonomy among tribal groups.
      Mindanoao and the Cordilleras Autonomous Region, where indigenous groups
      are located, are allowed a greater degree of local control and receive
      additional funds from the government. Muslim Mindanao has a strong
      separatist movement. Terrorist groups have developed in support of the
      movement. In the year 2000, terrorists engaged in acts of kidnaping for
      ransom, a crime that is common in the country. The government deployed
      additional military forces to attack terrorist strongholds.
    



          Military Activity.
        

       The armed forces consist of an army, a navy, a coast guard, and an air
      force. The army includes the Philippines National Police; the navy
      includes the marines. Military service is voluntary. Public respect for
      the military is high. Military expenditures account for 1.5 percent of the
      gross domestic product. Current military activity is focused on terrorist
      activity in Mindanao. The oil-rich Spratly Islands in the South China Sea
      are an area of concern that is monitored by the navy. The Spratlys belong
      to the Philippines but are claimed by several other countries, and the
      Chinese have unsuccessfully 
       attempted to establish a base there. In 1998, the Philippines signed a
      visiting forces agreement that allows United States forces to enter the
      country to participate in joint training maneuvers.
    



      Social Welfare and Change Programs
    

      Land reform has been a concern since independence. Spanish and American
      rule left arable land concentrated in the hands of 2 percent of the
      population and those owners will not give up their land without
      compensation. Attempts made to provide land, such as the resettlement of
      Christian farmers in Mindanao in the 1950s, have not provided enough land
      to resolve the problem. Until land reform takes place, poverty will be the
      nation's primary social problem. Eighty percent of the rural
      population and half the urban population live in poverty. Governmental
      organizations provide health clinics and medical services, aid in
      establishing micro businesses such as craft shops and small factories, and
      offer basic services for the disabled. The number of beggars increases in
      times of high unemployment. People consider it good luck to give money to
      a poor person, and so beggars manage to survive.
    



      Nongovernmental Organizations and Other Associations
    

      While nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) work throughout the country to
      solve social problems, they are most visible in metropolitan Manila, where
      they work with squatters. The rural poor gravitate to urban areas, cannot
      find a place to live, and settle in public areas, riverbanks and garbage
      dumps. It is estimated that one of every four residents of metropolitan
      Manila is a squatter. Shanty towns are so large that in 2000, when rains
      from two successive typhoons made garbage dumps collapse, over two hundred
      people were buried alive as their homes were swept away. Nongovernmental
      organizations exert pressure on the government for land on which squatters
      can build permanent housing. Forced evictions are another target of NGOs,
      since an alternative place to live is not provided.
    

      Volunteer agencies from the United States, the United Kingdom, the
      Netherlands, Germany, Denmark and Japan work with NGOs and governmental
      agencies. Projects to help children and meet environmental needs are the
      focus of volunteer efforts. Volunteer agencies are supervised by the
      Philippine National Volunteer Service Coordinating Agency.
    





            A farmhouse overlooks vegetables growing on a terraced field. In
            these volcanic islands, mountains are common.
          





      Gender Roles and Statuses
    



          Division of Labor by Gender.
        

       Traditional roles prevail in rural areas, where men cultivate the land
      but the entire family is involved in planting and harvesting the crops.
      Women work in gardens and care for the house and children as well as
      barnyard animals. In urban areas, men work in construction and machine
      upkeep and as drivers of passenger vehicles. Women work as teachers,
      clerks, owners of 
      
        sari-sari
      
       stores, marketers of produce and health care providers. Occupational
      gender lines are blurred since men also work as nurses and teachers. In
      the professions, gender lines are less important. Women attorneys, doctors
      and lawyers are found in the provinces as well as in urban areas.
    



          The Relative Status of Women and Men.
        

       While families desire male children, females are welcomed to supply help
      in the house and provide a home in the parents' old age.
      Women's rights to equality and to share the family inheritance with
      male siblings are firmly established and are not questioned. The oldest
      daughter is expected to become an OSW to provide money for the education
      of younger siblings and for the needs of aging family members. Women are
      the familial money managers. The wedding 
       ceremony can include the gift of a coin from the groom to the bride to
      acknowledge this role.
    

      Since personal relationships and wealth are considered the road to
      success, women have an equal opportunity to achieve. Winners of beauty
      pageants are likely to succeed in the business and professional world,
      especially if the pageant was at an international level.
    



      Marriage, Family and Kinship
    



          Marriage.
        

       Marriage is a civil ceremony that is conducted city offices. A religious
      ceremony also is performed. The ceremony is similar to those in the United
      States with the addition of sponsors. Principal sponsors are friends and
      relatives who have positions of influence in the community. The number of
      principal sponsors attests to the popularity and potential success of a
      couple. It also reduces a couple's expenses, since each principal
      sponsor is expected to contribute a substantial amount of cash. Members of
      the wedding party are secondary sponsors who do not have to provide funds.
    

      Arranged marriages have not been part of Filipino life. However, men are
      expected to marry and if a man has not married by his late twenties,
      female relatives begin introducing him to potential brides. The median age
      for marriage is twenty-two. Young professionals wait until their late
      twenties to marry, and engagements of five to seven years are not
      uncommon. During this period, the couple becomes established in jobs, pays
      for the education of younger siblings, and acquires household items. A
      woman who reaches the age of thirty-two without marrying is considered
      past the age for marriage. Women believe that marriage to a wealthy man or
      a foreigner will guarantee happiness. Divorce is illegal, but annulment is
      available for the dissolution of a marriage. Reasons for annulment include
      physical incapacity, physical violence, or pressure to change one's
      religious or political beliefs. Interfaith marriages are rare.
    



          Domestic Unit.
        

       The extended family is the most important societal unit, especially for
      women. Women's closest friendships come from within the family.
      Mothers and daughters who share a home make decisions concerning the home
      without conferring with male family members. One child remains in the
      family home to care for the parents and grandparents. This child, usually
      a daughter, is not necessarily unmarried. The home may include assorted
      children from the extended family, and single aunts and uncles. Several
      houses may be erected on the same lot to keep the family together.
      Childcare is shared. Fathers carry and play with children but are unlikely
      to change diapers. Grandparents who live in the home are the primary care
      givers for the children since both parents generally work. Preschool
      grandchildren who live in other communities may be brought home for their
      grandparents to raise. Indigent relatives live in the family circle and
      provide as household and childcare help. Young people may work their way
      through college by exchanging work for room and board. Family bonds are so
      close that nieces and nephews are referred to as one's own children
      and cousins are referred to as sisters and brothers. Unmarried adult women
      may legally adopt one of a sibling's children.
    



          Inheritance.
        

       Inheritance laws are based on those in the United States. These laws
      provide that all children acknowledged by a father, whether born in or out
      of wedlock, share equally in the estate. Females share equally with males.
    



          Kin Groups.
        

       Because of the closeness of the immediate family, all familial ties are
      recognized. Anyone who is remotely related is known as a cousin.
      Indigenous tribes live in clan groups. Marriage into another clan may mean
      that the individual is considered dead to his or her clan.
    

      People have a strong sense of belonging to a place. A family that has
      lived in metropolitan Manila for two generations still regards a
      municipality or province as its home. New Year's Day, Easter, and
      All Saint's Day are the most important family holidays. Bus traffic
      from Manila to the provinces increases dramatically at these times, with
      hundreds of extra buses taking people home to their families.
    



      Socialization
    



          Infant Care.
        

       Infants are raised by family members. Young children are sent to live
      with their grandparents or aunts for extended periods. People who live
      outside the country leave their children with the family for the preschool
      years.
    

      Infants spend their waking time in someone's arms until they can
      walk. They are part of every activity and learn by observation. Someone
      will remain in the room with them when they sleep. Infant mortality is
      high, and so great care is taken of babies. Helpers and older sisters
      assist with the dayto-day care of babies.
    



          Child Rearing and Education.
        

       Children are seldom alone in a system in which adults desire company 
      



            Workers spread rice on palm mats to dry in the midday sun. Filipinos
            do not consider a meal complete without rice.
          


       and do not understand the need for privacy. Children have no pressure to
      become toilet trained or to learn to eat at the table. They are spoon fed
      or eat from a parent's plate until the age of six. They must learn
      respect for authority, obedience, and religious faith. Self-esteem is
      fostered. A child's first birthday is celebrated with a party.
    
    
      Filipinos regard education as the path to upward mobility. Ninety percent
      of the population over ten years of age is literate. The Department of
      Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) is the largest governmental
      department. Approximately twelve million elementary school pupils and five
      million secondary students attended school in 1999 and 2000. Education is
      compulsory until age twelve. Statistics indicate that children from the
      poorest 40 percent of the population do not attend school. Elementary
      education is a six-year program; secondary education is a four-year
      program. Pre-schools and kindergartens are seldom available in public
      schools but are in private schools. Children are grouped homogeneously by
      ability. First grade students begin being taught in Filipino; English is
      added after two months. In elementary and secondary schools, reading,
      science, and mathematics are taught in English while values, social
      studies, and health are taught in Filipino. Children learn some Filipino
      and English words from the media. "Linga franca" is an
      experimental approach in which students are taught in the native dialect
      and Filipino for the first two years and English in the third grade. This
      program came about as a response to concerns that English was being used
      more than were the native languages.
    

      Elementary school, secondary school, and college students are required to
      wear uniforms. Girls wear pleated skirts and white blouses. Public school
      pupils wear dark blue skirts. Each private school has its own color. Boys
      wear white shirts and dark pants. Women teachers are given a government
      allowance to purchase four uniforms to wear Monday through Thursday. Men
      wear dark pants and a 
      
        barong,
      
       a lightweight cotton shirt, or a polo shirt. Female teachers are
      addressed as ma'am (pronounced "mum"). Male teachers
      are addressed as sir. These titles are highly prized and are used by
      teachers in addressing one another.
    

      Class sizes range from twenty to more than fifty in public schools. The
      goal is to keep class size below fifty. Pupils may have to share books and
      desks. Schools may lack electricity and have dirt floors or be flooded in
      the rainy season. The walls may not be painted. The Japanese, Chinese, and
      Australians have provided new classrooms, scientific supplies, and teacher
      training for the public schools. Private schools charge fees but have
      smaller 
       class sizes. They have a reputation of providing a better education than
      do the public schools.
    

      Computers are not readily available in elementary or secondary schools
      although DECS is stressing technology. President Estrada met with Bill
      Gates of Microsoft to procure computers and software for use in the
      schools.
    

      Classrooms in both public and private schools have a picture of the Virgin
      Mary and the president at the front of the room. Grottoes to the Virgin
      Mary or a patron saint are found on school campuses. School days begin and
      end with prayer.
    

      The school year runs from June to March to avoid the hot months of April
      and May. School starts at seven-thirty and ends at four-thirty with a
      break of one and a half hours for lunch. No meals are served at the
      school, although the parent-teacher association may run a stand that sells
      snacks for break time.
    

      Dropping out is a serious concern. In 1999 and 2000, the high school
      dropout rate increased from 9 percent to 13 percent. The increase is
      attributed to the need to provide care for younger siblings or to get a
      job to enable the family to survive the high inflation and the currency
      devaluation that followed the Asian financial crisis. The DECS has a
      Non-Formal Education Division to meet the needs of out-of-school youth as
      well as the needs of uneducated adults. Programs include adult literacy,
      agriculture and farm training, occupational skills, and training in health
      and nutrition. Programs for at-risk youth are being added at the high
      school level. The Open High School System Act of 2000 is designed to
      provide distance learning via television for youths and uneducated adults.
    



          Higher Education.
        

       A college degree is necessary to obtain positions that promise security
      and advancement. Approximately two million students attend colleges and
      universities. Each province has a state college system with several
      locations. The University of the Philippines, located in Manila, is a
      public university that is regarded as the best in the country. Private
      colleges are found in the major municipalities. The University of Santo
      Tomas in Manila is a private school that was established in 1611; it is
      the oldest site of higher education in the country. English is the primary
      language of instruction at the college level. Colleges and universities
      have large enrollments for advanced degrees since a four year degree may
      not be sufficient to work in the higher levels of government service.
    



      Etiquette
    

      People believe that it is one's duty to keep things operating
      smoothly. It is very important not to lose face. Being corrected or
      correcting another person in public is not considered acceptable behavior.
      People want to grant all requests, and so they often say yes when they
      mean no or maybe. Others understand when the request is not fulfilled
      because saying no might have caused the individual to lose face. When one
      is asked to join a family for a meal, the offer must be refused. If the
      invitation is extended a second time, it is permissible to accept. Time
      consciousness and time management are not important considerations. A
      planned meeting may take place later, much later, or never.
    

      Filipinos walk hand in hand or arm in arm with relatives and friends of
      either sex as a sign of affection or friendship. Women are expected not to
      cross their legs or drink alcohol in public. Shorts are not common wear
      for women.
    

      People pride themselves on hospitality. They readily go out of their way
      to help visitors or take them to their destination. It is of the highest
      importance to recognize the positions of others and use full titles and
      full names when introducing or referring to people. Non-verbal language,
      such as pointing to an object with one's lips, is a key element in
      communication. One greets friends by lifting the eyebrows. A longer lift
      can be used to ask a question.
    



      Religion
    



          Religious Beliefs.
        

       The Philippines is the only Christian nation in Asia. More than 85
      percent of the people are Roman Catholic. The rosary is said in the home
      at 9 
      
        P.M.
      
      , just before the family retires for the night. Children are introduced to
      the statue of "Mama Mary" at a very early age.
    

      Protestant missionaries arrived in 1901 and followed the Catholic example
      of establishing hospitals, clinics, and private schools. The Church of the
      Latter Day Saints (Mormons) is currently the most active missionary group.
    

      Sunni Muslims constitute the largest non-Christian group. They live in
      Mindanao and the Sulu Islands but have migrated to other provinces. Muslim
      provinces celebrate Islamic religious holidays as legal holidays. Mosques
      are located in large cities throughout the country. In smaller
      communities, Muslims gather in small buildings for services. Animism, a
      belief that natural objects have souls, is the oldest religion in the
      country, practiced by indigenous peoples in the mountains of Luzon.
    





            A roundabout with a fountain sits between old buildings in Manila.
            Some areas of the city were destroyed during World War II, when the
            country was invaded by Japan and then liberated by the United
            States.
          



      Freedom of religion is guaranteed by the constitution. The disagreement
      between the Muslim population of the southern provinces and the federal
      government is not so much about religion as it is about political goals.
      Non-Catholics do not object to Catholic symbols or prayer in public
      venues.
    

      Each barangay has a patron saint. The saint's day is celebrated by
      a fiesta that includes a religious ceremony. Large amounts of food are
      served at each house. Friends and relatives from other barangays are
      invited and go from house to house to enjoy the food. A talent show,
      beauty contest, and dance are part of the fun. Carnival rides and bingo
      games add to the festivities.
    



          Religious Practitioners.
        

       Religious leaders are powerful figures. Business and political leaders
      court Cardinal Jaime Sin because of his influence with much of the
      population. Local priest and ministers are so highly respected that
      requests from them take on the power of mandates. A family considers
      having a son or daughter with a religious career as a 
       high honor. Personal friendships with priests, ministers, and nuns are
      prized. Clerics take an active role in the secular world. An example is
      Brother Andrew Gonzales, the current secretary of DECS.
    

      Faith healers cure illness by prayer or touch. "Psychic"
      healers operate without using scalpels or drawing blood. The several
      thousand healers are Christians. They believe that if they ask for a fee,
      their power will disappear. Patients are generous with gifts because
      healers are greatly respected.
    



          Rituals and Holy Places.
        

       The major rituals are customary Christian or Muslim practices. Sites
      where miracles have taken place draw large crowds on Sundays and feast
      days. Easter is the most important Christian observance. On Easter
      weekend, the entire Christian area of the country is shut down from noon
      on Maundy Thursday until the morning of Black Saturday. International
      flights continue and hospitals are open, but national television
      broadcasts, church services, and shops and restaurants are closed and
      public transportation is sparse. People stay at home or go to church.
      Special events take place on Good Friday. There are religious processions
      such as a parade of the statues of saints throughout the community.
    



          Death and the Afterlife.
        

       A twenty-four-hour vigil is held at the deceased person's home,
      and the body is escorted to the cemetery after the religious ceremony. The
      tradition is for mourners to walk behind the coffin. A mausoleum is built
      during the lifetime of the user. The size of the edifice indicates the
      position of the builder.
    

      Mourning is worn for six weeks after the death of a family member. It may
      consists of a black pin worn on the blouse or shirt of the mourner or
      black clothing. Mourning is put aside after one year. A meal or party is
      provided for family members and close friends one year after the burial to
      commemorate recognize the memory of the deceased.
    

      All Saint's Day (1 November) is a national holiday to honor the
      dead. Grave sites are cleared of debris and repaired. Families meet at the
      cemetery and stay throughout the twenty-four hours. Candles and flowers
      are placed on the graves. Food and memories are shared, and prayers are
      offered for the souls of the dead. When a family member visits a grave
      during the year, pebbles are placed on the grave to indicate that the
      deceased has been remembered.
    



      Medicine and Health Care
    

      Life expectancy is seventy years for females and sixty-four years for
      males. The Health Care Law of 
      



            Painted Jeepneys on a city street.
          


       1995 provides citizens with basic health care at no cost through
      subsidies. The working poor are given financial assistance when necessary.
      Children receive inoculations at no cost. The World Health Organization
      (WHO) declared the Philippines to be polio-free in 2000. It is the first
      nation in the world to be recognized for the elimination of polio.
    
    
      Regional public hospitals provide service to everyone. People who live far
      away ride a bus for hours to reach the hospital. Funds for ambulances are
      raised by lotteries within each barangay or are provided by congressmen
      and are used only for the people who live in that area. Private hospitals
      are considered superior to public hospitals. Paying patients are not
      discharged from hospitals until the bill is paid in full. Patients have 
      
        kasamas
      
       (companions) who remain with them during the hospital stay. Kasamas
      assist with nursing chores by giving baths, getting food trays, taking
      samples to the nurses' station and questioning the doctor. A bed
      but no food is provided for the kasama in the hospital room.
    

      The infant mortality rate is 48.9 percent, and one-third of the children
      are malnourished. Over 13 percent of preschool and elementary school
      children are underweight. A government program provides nutritious food
      for impoverished pupils at the midmorning break. This is only offered to
      schools in the 
       poorest areas. National test scores are examined to see if improvement
      has occurred. If the scores are better, the program is expanded.
    

      The most prevalent health problem is "high blood"
      (hypertension). One in ten persons over the age of fifteen has high blood
      pressure. Tuberculosis is another health concern; The country has the
      fourth highest mortality rate in the world from that disease. Malaria and
      dengue fever are prevalent because there is no effective program for
      mosquito control. The number of deaths attributed to dengue increased in
      the late 1990s.
    

      Herbal remedies are used alone or in conjunction with prescribed
      medications. A dog bite treated with antibiotics and rabies shots also may
      be treated with garlic applied to the puncture. The study of herbal
      remedies is part of the school health curriculum. Many elementary schools
      have herb gardens that are planted and cared for by the students.
    



      Secular Celebrations
    

      New Year's Day is more of a family holiday than Christmas. It is
      combined with Rizal Day on 30 December to provide time for people to go
      home to their province. Midnight on New Year's Eve brings an
      outburst of firecrackers and gunfire from randomly aimed firearms.
    

      Other national secular holidays are Fall of Bataan Day, an observation of
      the Bataan Death March in 1942 on 9 April. Labor Day is celebrated on 1
      May. Independence Day on 12 June celebrates freedom from Spanish rule. It
      is celebrated with fiestas, parades, and fireworks. Sino-Filipinos
      celebrate the Chinese New Year, which is not a national holiday, in
      January or February. In Manila, fireworks and parades take place
      throughout Chinatown. Muslims celebrate Islamic festivals.
    



      Arts and Humanities
    



          Support for the Arts.
        

       The government provides support for institutions such as the National
      Museum in Manila. Libraries exists in colleges and universities. The best
      collections are in Manila. Museums are located in provincial capitals and
      in Manila. The Cultural Center of the Philippines in Manila is a center
      for the performing arts that opened in 1970. It is a multibuilding complex
      created under the direction of former first lady Imelda Marcos, who
      encouraged musicians to enter the international community and receive
      additional training. Nongovernmental organizations preserve the folk
      heritage of the indigenous groups.
    



          Literature.
        

       Literature is based on the oral traditions of folklore, the influence of
      the church and Spanish and American literature. Filipino written
      literature became popular in the mid-nineteenth century as the middle
      class became educated. The greatest historical literature evolved from the
      independence movement. José Rizal electrified the country with his
      novels. During the early years of American control, literature was written
      in English. The English and American literature that was taught in the
      schools was a factor in the kind of writing that was produced. Writing in
      Filipino languages became more common in the late 1930s and during the
      Japanese occupation. Literature is now written in both Filipino and
      English. Textbooks contain national and world literature.
    



          Graphic Arts.
        

       The Filipino Academy of Art, established in 1821, shows early art
      reflecting Spanish and religious themes. Juan Luna and Felix Hidalgo were
      the first Filipino artists to win recognition in Europe at the end of the
      nineteenth century. Contemporary artists use a variety of techniques and
      mediums to reflect social and political life. Crafts reflect the national
      culture. Each area of the country has specialties that range from the
      batik cotton prints of the Muslim areas to the wood carvings of the
      mountain provinces of Luzon. Baskets and mats are created from rattan.
      Textiles are woven by hand in cooperatives, storefronts, and homes. Banana
      and pineapple fiber cloth, cotton, and wool are woven into textiles.
      Furniture and decorative items are carved. Silver and shell crafts also
      are created
    

      Sex and violence are major themes in films, which are often adaptations of
      American screen productions. American films are popular and readily
      available, and so high-quality Filipino films have been slow to develop.
    



          Performance Arts.
        

       Drama before Spanish colonization was of a religious nature and was
      intended to persuade the deities to provide the necessities of life. The
      Spanish used drama to introduce the Catholic religion. Filipino themes in
      drama developed in the late nineteenth century as the independence
      movement evolved. Current themes are nationalistic and reflect daily life.
    

      Dance is a mixture of Filipino and Spanish cultures. Professional dance
      troupes perform ballet, modern dance, and folk dance. Folk dances are
      performed at meetings and conferences and reflect a strong Spanish
      influence. Indigenous dances are used in historical pageants. An example
      is a bamboo dance relating a story about a bird moving among the reeds.
      People enjoy ballroom dancing for recreation. 
       Dance instructors are available at parties to teach the waltz and the
      cha-cha.
    

      Music performance begins in the home and at school. Amateur performances
      featuring song and dance occur at fiestas. Popular music tends to be
      American. Guitars are manufactured for export; folk instruments such as
      the nose flute also are constructed.
    



      The State of the Physical and Social Sciences
    

      The physical sciences focus on the needs of the country. Aquaculture, the
      development of fish and shellfish farms in coastal areas, is a rapidly
      growing field. Centuries of fishing and dynamiting fish have changed the
      balance of nature. Hormonal research to stimulate the growth of fish and
      shellfish is a priority. Control of red tide, an infestation that makes
      shellfish unsafe to eat, is another area of concentration. Agricultural
      research and research into volcano and earthquake control are other areas
      of study. The development of geothermal and other energy sources is
      ongoing. Other environmental research areas of importance are waste
      resource management, water resource management, and forest management. The
      social sciences are focused on the needs of the country with the primary
      emphasis on resolving the problems of poverty and land reform.
    



      Bibliography
    

      Department of Education, Culture and Sports. 
      
        Fact Sheet,
      
       2000.
    


        Europa World Factbook,
      
       1999.
    

      Goodno, James R. 
      
        Philippines: The Land of Broken Promises,
      
       1991.
    

      Karnow, Stanley. 
      
        In our Image: America's Empire in the Philippines,
      
       1989.
    

      Oleksy, Walter. 
      
        The Philippines,
      
       2000.
    

      Peters, Jens. 
      
        Philippines,
      
       1997.
    

      Roces, Alfredo. 
      
        Culture Shock: Philippines,
      
       1999.
    

      Schirmer, Daniel B., ed. 
      
        The Philippines: A History of Colonialism,
      
       1987.
    

      Sonneborn, Liz. 
      
        The Philippines,
      
       1988.
    

      Sullivan, Margaret W. 
      
        The Philippines: Pacific Crossroads,
      
       1993.
    

      Thompson, W. Scott. 
      
        The Philippines in Crisis,
      
       1992.
    

      Timberman, David G. 
      
        Philippines Today: The Challenge,
      
       1996.
    

      Tope, Lily Rose. 
      
        Philippines,
      
       1991.
    

      U.S. Department of the Army. 
      
        Philippines: A country study,
      
       1991.
    




        Web Sites
      


      Country Watch 
      
        Philippines,
      
       2000, 
      
        http://www.countryside.com
      


      National Statistics Office, Income and Employment Statistics. 
      
        Annual Poverty Indication Survey,
      
       1999, 
      
        http://www.nso.census.gov.ph
      


      U.S. Department of Health. 
      
        Health Care Law of 1995,
      
       1999, 
      
        http://www.doh.gov.ph
      


      U.S. Department of State. 
      
        Background Notes: Philippines,
      
       1998.
    

      U.S. Department of State, Central Intelligence Agency. 
      
        World Factbook
      
       2000, 
      
        http://www.odci.gov/cia/publications/factbook/geos/rp.html
      


      U.S. Library of Congress. 
      
        Philippines: A country study,
      
       1999, 
      
        http://lcweb2.loc.gov
      




      —S
      
        ALLY
      
       E. B
      
        ARINGER
      










User Contributions:
1PraisaJul 8, 2006 @ 5:05 amit was good but do you have a topic about phillipine mineral problems or issues......2JulieAug 5, 2006 @ 12:12 pmthe information can really reminds me the culture n traditions of my fellow filipinos!it can help a lot to the filipino students n their History subject!Im looking  forward to see more information n details about the Philippine attraction.3maiAug 24, 2006 @ 11:23 pmnice article. it is a good reminder for the filipinos to look back on their own history and culture, though it is short, but it has a rich content. i hope i could read more of this kind in the web... mabuhay philippines!!!4Erly G. ReyesSep 18, 2006 @ 4:04 amVery informative, it will help a lot for the filipino students about their own culture and history. hope to read more about this...wow Philippines!...5JoanOct 10, 2006 @ 7:07 amhow nice... it is really interesting, this article contribute a lot in my research.. this will help the Filipinos esp. the youth to remind them from our cultural heritage and history. thank you!6kareenaDec 14, 2006 @ 5:05 amthat's so good!!!!well,,,im just wondering why there's no topic about history of communication during the japanese, american and spanish era..7Arman Francis V. AvancenaJan 6, 2007 @ 3:03 amthe information that can be found in this site shows what are the customs and tradition here in the Philippines.. it really help just like to us student to know and appreciate our own way of living and the unique characteristics of the Filipino people as well as the Philippines.8eteliniaJan 22, 2007 @ 3:03 amVery informative article about the Philippines' culture and society. How Philippines developed as a nation and made its mark as Republic through fighting for independence and wanting to established the Philippines as a nation. Eventhough most of the traditions and beliefs are hand over by the colonialization of Spainish and American, distinct characteristics of the Filipino and exotic traditions were being maintained and practiced like being hospitable with a sense of pride, sharing a candid smile to everyone and the evolution of "Bayanihan" (helping in times of crisis) in todays era. Truly, I believe is so FILIPINO....9yvonneJan 27, 2007 @ 6:18 pmvery nice article it really helps me in my research work.. it would help also to all filipino,especially to the filipino youths to know our own history and own culture..10susanMay 13, 2007 @ 8:20 pmis there anything about culture i mean like cultural traditions?11princessMay 15, 2007 @ 6:06 ami found your article to be very interesting. You seem to tie up basic information about the philippines and the filipinos.12ralph sabatanoAug 29, 2007 @ 12:00 amim here visiting cebu,met a lady,also was married prior,what is the best or faster way to take her to the states,and how much is an annulment?she is seperated for 5 years now.also has a child while workin abroad not filipino.thank you13maley tampipiSep 5, 2007 @ 2:02 amdo you have some brief explanation about the Period of New Society in Philippine Literature Period?14Lexine Cheng UyJan 26, 2008 @ 1:01 amthis website is very informative i tried all the other sites but none of them were as detailed and interesting as yours15ashMar 31, 2008 @ 9:09 amthis is something on the philippines. this is for my project. this is a pretty good site to us for my paper. i need to e-mail this to my self.i need this for my five hundred to fifty hundred word easy. this is a very important website for me to use. thanks for letting me use it.16jeffMay 13, 2008 @ 10:22 pmthe details are amazing. i'm a filipino and this article is very informative. thanks a lot :)17mathoneeMay 16, 2008 @ 1:01 amvery informative. thank you! i am reminded of the old traditions in the country - philippines!18roxanne-nicolaiJun 19, 2008 @ 4:16 pmthis helped me alot on my presentation. about the philippines.19CarolAug 21, 2008 @ 3:15 pmThis is a great article! While reading this, I sort of looked back to all the events that I had experienced as a Filipino and at the same time discovered something new which made me think I still have a lot of things to dig in my own country .Thinking of upgrading my camera  to capture new moments, new adventures in the near future...20jestleNov 3, 2008 @ 4:04 amVery informative article about the Philippines' culture and society. This article help me a lot about my project an i learn about the culture of the Philippines and how the Filipinos live.thanks a lot:]21gherlieJun 7, 2009 @ 5:05 amhey nice article we better love our nature and culture keep up22joyce annOct 17, 2009 @ 10:10 ami have learn a lot  being part of a filipino since i am truly proud  from where i came from...it made me strong enough and fight from my own land.............23SHARPIEOct 26, 2009 @ 8:08 amIT'S IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND ONE ANOTHERS CULTURE TO REALLY UNDERSTAND ONE ANOTHER... CONTINUE TO WRITE AND TELL OTHERS OF THIS AMAZING CULTURE!
-ME24melissaDec 10, 2009 @ 4:16 pmhmm...tnx for the info this article really help me a lot..i have a report report today on my history I but i cant find any article detailed as yours..25LorenJan 16, 2010 @ 9:09 amThis information really helped me! I'm doing my project on the Philippines and I got of my information from here. It's very descriptive:)26JehanneJan 26, 2010 @ 5:05 amVery interesting article. It helps a lot to us students and to all Filipinos as well. I must say, I am so proud to be one of the Filipinos in the World!27Peter TamayoJan 28, 2010 @ 12:12 pmJust came back to Hawaii January 26, 2010 and I wanted to see how the filipino's live there lifes. As soon as I get photo's develop I will write article about a community of 200 families that live south of Lagoa PI. Some people may want to hear a different story. This is where my second wife was born and came out of poverty and went to Hawaii a over priced state.28rogielyn_palananMar 2, 2010 @ 2:02 amnice article..very interesting!tnx a lot 4 a very good information..godbless and more power.29JmackMar 6, 2010 @ 5:05 amhey! cool philippeines I had visited. wow! totally great there. I love the culture especially the t'boli tribes in the philippeines. I also meet the cool group called culture eight. I want to return and have my cool adventure there. The 7,107 islands to explore and the wild place. I really canmt forget that country so much.30mara kimberly b. malaluanMar 7, 2010 @ 12:00 amwow! :) the information that can be found in this site shows what are the customs and tradition here in the Philippines.. it really help just like to us student to know and appreciate our own way of living and the unique characteristics of the Filipino people as well as the Philippines.31AgNixusMar 12, 2010 @ 10:22 pmthe article is very good. it's informative. i hope for more articles that feature Filipino cultural heritage, particularly of those societies which are rarely recognized. i believe this could really help Filipino students to better understand and appreciate more the uniqueness and complexity of the Filipino culture.32McardonMar 23, 2010 @ 8:20 pmthis article has opened my eyes, i was born in the Philippines, but I was raised in the Hawaii at the age of 5 didn't know anything about my filipino culture till I read this article of yours. I'm very much thankful and at the same time very proud of being a filipina.33alexaApr 27, 2010 @ 1:01 am...i think my knowledge about Philippines history is already complete because of this article, thank you for the writer/s ...Mabuhay kayo!!!34MaxMay 3, 2010 @ 11:23 pmThis one is a really good source of information. I'm a college student here in CA and just finished   on my Persuasive speech about the Philippines. The topic i just worked on makes me proud of where i belong, i will  wore half the Igorot custom in front of the class, and I felt the sense of pride while i'm wearing and discuassing to the class about the Philippine culture, traditions, foods. places, people. and many many more. I hope other Filipino like me will be proud of their ethnicity too cause i feel bad about other Filipinos who is shy in representing their nation and ethnicity...35estherMay 28, 2010 @ 4:04 amA lot of the information you published are indeed correct and quite helpful but I also found a lot of information which are outdated and incorrect. i.e. not every Filipino eats cold, leftover breakfast. Sausage and eggs are not eaten only during special occasions. They are practically eaten everyday for breakfast by some/most Filipinos. Yes, some men and women are drivers and teachers and sari-sari store owners in the city but there are also Filipinos who are employed in high paying, high ranking jobs. Men and women hold executive positions even in international companies. These and some other information can be misleading especially to Filipinos who are trying to discover their roots.  I would be happy to lend a hand in editing some of the parts if you'd like. Oh, and the literal translation of "halo-halo" is mix, mix. Halo-halo describes the action one makes when eating this dessert. A person has to mix all the ingredients together before taking a spoonful of the mixed sweets.36bradMay 28, 2010 @ 4:16 pmLove your site but in the references area the url for Country Watch is incorrect, thanks37in-in mansuetoAug 26, 2010 @ 10:22 pmthanks for the article you have published, its very helpful particularly for the history students.., hope that this site can publish more about the history of the Philippines.38BrenSep 12, 2010 @ 2:02 amCool website.am planning on joining a university in the Philippines and it helps to know a thing or two about where am going.keep it up!..could u next time include something on the social life?that wud help alot.thanks.39john michael agadSep 13, 2010 @ 1:01 amit was fun reading this. many things now are somehow clear to me. there are lots of informations.40anjSep 16, 2010 @ 7:07 amthanks for the information..very informative...God bless41SallySep 21, 2010 @ 12:12 pmi saw a ugly boy in this. I hope i do not see this agen.42nazishNov 4, 2010 @ 1:13 pmin this artical shows philippines culture but not show the infolance of diffrent relegion on philippnis culture43joe-anneNov 15, 2010 @ 9:21 pmi got more ideas from this topic, nice article..itz essay to understand what our culture is..44nikkiNov 22, 2010 @ 10:22 pmhi,i'm fillipino and i want to know how manilla looks like and what they do and what trhey learn in the schools.so im from hawaii please tell me thank you45Suzette OlsonNov 27, 2010 @ 11:23 pmWhat holiday does Filipinos celebrates on November 29th  & 30th?
Thanks!46joeDec 2, 2010 @ 1:01 amit was good but do you have a topic about the criteria of the Philippines?47JayDec 4, 2010 @ 10:10 am@suzette olson- hi, im jay from Philippines. Actually, November 30 (original date of celebration) is Bonifacio Day, a legal holiday(Andres Bonifacio-highly honored hero here in Philippines) in accordance with the Republic Act no.9492.On the other hand, November 29 is non-working day (moved-date) as declared in celebration with superseding act under presidential proclamation.TC48bonifacioDec 6, 2010 @ 7:07 amVery informative, but we have to face the reality, if the government will do the same way as what the NGO's do for our indigent brothers. We can be much better. Mabuhay lahat ng service organization!49HalleDec 6, 2010 @ 7:19 pmThe article was awesome It really helped me with my project it got me a A++50vanessaDec 27, 2010 @ 12:12 pmthis information was great for my progect ithas lots of information. i got alevel 4 and a a+51ninkzJan 5, 2011 @ 7:19 pmthis article helped me a lot for my assignment in sociology. thank you so much!52PhoebeJan 7, 2011 @ 10:10 amThis was of great help for me. I really appreciate how you've shared so much information to the public. Thanks.! =>53katkatJan 8, 2011 @ 11:23 pmthanks for this article ! im doing a thesis right now and this helps a lot !
i just wanna know when was this article written and whats the name of the author. ! THANK YOU !54MaanJan 12, 2011 @ 10:10 ami like this page.. it so intresting.. but i think not all part from history was written there... like some situations that usually needs explanation to understand... and i just want to ask and to know about this.. "on spanish era in philippine.. what are the socio-cultural values that are used and practiced for leadership??"55marieJan 16, 2011 @ 5:05 ami like it,very much...i learn a lot from this article.tnx to the author!56Ralph HunterJan 24, 2011 @ 6:18 pmVery good article.
I will be moving to the Philippines
Although a lot of the information here I already knew, the explanation made it Clearer.
In addtion to many things, I never knew.
Great Article
Thank You57rufelFeb 1, 2011 @ 11:23 pmthanks! it really help us a lot like us MA student...
PS.may you include attitudes,beliefs,values of Filipinos and of course recent explosion of social beliefs.58Chris AguilarMar 21, 2011 @ 10:22 pmthis is a very informative section where i could share new learnings to my students by rediscovering my native land59ElamaeApr 4, 2011 @ 2:02 amThis is so informative! So helpful i had to do a poster for our country(Philippines) for my homework coz most 
people in New Zealand know a little info about us!!! Thanks ^_^60emilMay 2, 2011 @ 11:23 pmthanks for the info..but do you know any problems about dialects in the philippines? something like places or provinces that dont understand other dialects???61amandaMay 3, 2011 @ 4:16 pmI'm trying to find out about the beliefs of single women being friends with married men. I was wondering if it is frowned upon in their society?62Paul Bryan BeceraJun 9, 2011 @ 7:19 pmVery informative article about my Philippines. This help me on my presentation for a russian people.63Bart AbayaJun 22, 2011 @ 2:02 amIn the United States barter is a $6 billion industry. The majority of this business is done through local area barter exchanges scattered throughout the country.

Barter allows businesses to buy the goods and services they need - without spending cash. In a barter exchange the business members buy what they need and pay for it with what they have. The barter exchange is the third-party record keeper. The exchange helps the transactions to happen and creates a currency system so that trades do not have to be direct or one-to-one.

Bartering allows a business to make purchases it would otherwise not have been able to make if the business had to spend cash. If your company has excess inventory, extra time, space or services, barter is an excellent way to move those goods or services. Barter brings new customers and additional income that can be spent with other barter members to conserve cash.

A Barter Exchange serves as third-party record keeper - (similar to a bank recording system of debit credit). Barter exchanges use a currency called barter money or trade credits (1 trade credit = 1 peso). Businesses buy and sell in the network using barter money or trade credits .

For additional information: BEX Barter exchange Philippines  email barter.trader@yahoo.com

Note:FREE Accreditation/Membership64AnnJun 23, 2011 @ 8:08 amuhmm ..i just want to know how geography affects the developmet of Filipino Civilization .. pls. answer a.s.a.p !!65presna pearl gabaonJun 29, 2011 @ 8:08 amthanks for the update...truly Philippines is very historical..66R-Lyn-MaeJul 6, 2011 @ 11:23 pmhey i think it is very interesting.
do you think it is interesting?67janapeeJul 17, 2011 @ 6:06 amthanks... very informative...
maraming salamat. mabuhay ang mga Pilipino...68angelJul 26, 2011 @ 5:05 amIf i wish sinulog will be preserve until to the next generation..u if some one will ask u what kind of culture u want to preserve??what will be your answer.. BY the way i'm from CEBU..!!69glyJul 27, 2011 @ 12:00 amkeep it up...it is good but it is better if you have included more pictures from the other barrio's70ino yamanakaAug 6, 2011 @ 1:01 amthis helped me alot on my presentation. about the philippines.71jezreel tabagoAug 16, 2011 @ 10:22 pmi ask the question" what is the non material culture in mindanao because this is my research about my subject society and family planing. .i need more knowledge obout traits in mindanao thak you. .:)72NatalieAug 31, 2011 @ 5:05 amCould you please tell me who and when this article was written??

Thank You73GregSep 2, 2011 @ 11:11 amWould like to have a section about there diet, housing, transportation, types of energy used, etc. Other wise more information on what makes their ecological footprint.74jessie pepitoSep 5, 2011 @ 9:21 pmit is very interesting Philippine history throughout the ages.75MenchieSep 9, 2011 @ 9:09 amIts very informative article. Hope to read more about it.76daisy tenollarSep 20, 2011 @ 3:03 amthe article is very nice. I have learn so many things about my race as a Filipino I should be responsible thank you77NOELSep 22, 2011 @ 9:21 pmNice presentations of the Pgilippines. I am looking for a possible site where I can browse photos of Filipinos during the spanish, japanese and American regime. Where could I find those photos if ever there are?78Evangeline Kate SummersSep 27, 2011 @ 3:03 amI Love your article about Philippine Cultures and many more...I 'm very satisfied about your article, it's fascinating and all and I'm delighted to read about your topics about the cultures and history about Philippines, because it's inspire me to love and read about my own nation...Thank you very much, you really helped us a lot about your topic...even about my assignment in Social Science, my teachers are impressed about the Philippine Culture...SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR SHARING YOUR OWN KNOWLEDGE AND WISDOM...And may God Bless You Always!!!79Evangeline Kate SummersSep 27, 2011 @ 3:03 amI Love your article about Philippine Cultures and many more...I 'm very satisfied about your article, it's fascinating and all and I'm delighted to read about your topics about the cultures and history about Philippines, because it's inspire me to love and read about my own nation...Thank you very much, you really helped us a lot about your topic...even about my assignment in Social Science, my teachers are impressed about the Philippine Culture...SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR SHARING YOUR OWN KNOWLEDGE AND WISDOM...And may God Bless You Always!!!80Tony WilliamsOct 3, 2011 @ 2:02 amAs an English guy I love this site!  I am a retired English teacher (I help foreign students learn English).  I am etting Married to Mercy at Christmas. and for the first time in 50 yes 50 years have finally found true true love.  I have a house in Cavite and I live in a Filipino community as I don't want to live with other "Foreigners" separately from Filipinos (too much back-biting).  Here in Lavanya I live with REAL genuine Filipino people and I receive much more respect and love than I get here in the UK.  You Filipinos are GREAT WONDERFUL people.
If you are a "foreigner" and have an open mind and an open heart then this really is the country for you!! Send me an email to know more.  Kind regards, Tony Williams81joana capiliOct 11, 2011 @ 1:01 amHOW A NICE ONE. IT IS REALLY TRUE. FILIPINO IS REALLY HELPFUL ONE AND GENEROUS ONE...\
IN EVERY CHALLENGES FILIPINO CANNOT GIVE UP. AS A FILIPINA IAM SO PROUD OF THE FILIPINOS. PROUD TO BE PINAY.82chaOct 29, 2011 @ 7:07 amreally nice article... i learned a lot... the things you said here are true, hope you can add more like the different festivities we have other than the ones listed here. Thanks!83edgarNov 9, 2011 @ 9:09 ami need more information  about philippines please help me that would help alot84mondoiNov 14, 2011 @ 7:19 pmI think it would be better if you have included in your article the different societal and educational changes that had happened in the Philippines.85michtalabaNov 17, 2011 @ 1:01 amand i really proud that i am PINOY because i deliver it so much,i made my family proud because i finish the course of education because i believe that the history of the PHILIPPINES is to broad,., College education usually takes four, sometimes five and in some cases as in medical and law schools, as long as eight years. Graduate schooling is an additional two or more years. Classes in Philippine schools start in June and end in March. Colleges and universities follow the semestral calendar from June-October and November-March. There are a number of foreign schools with study programs similar to those of the mother country.Not among of us are rich and poor but i cant say that i am not rich86Yasmine I. HusseinNov 28, 2011 @ 7:07 amit was nice to know the whole information about Philippines but do you know anything about the clothing of the working class during the Spanish era cause yea we have a presentation and we really need a dress please. help !!87angela magdayaoDec 1, 2011 @ 7:19 pmwow super informative, i'm sure that every people who read these will amaze, i love it88KelechiDec 7, 2011 @ 12:00 amBeautiful write up, very informative. It seems Filipinos and the Ibo tribe in Nigeria are basically the same people living in different continents. this calls for more research!89Rhaeven OrtizDec 30, 2011 @ 9:21 pmHow do Malays lived and survived in the Philippines?Do they already invent many and other things?
Did they hunt wild animals?Did they invented school,Malacaniang palace,the Philippine flag,and abacus90AdrianaJan 2, 2012 @ 3:15 pmDo you know the name of the person who wrote this article???91Angela Lee ManlangitJan 11, 2012 @ 8:20 pmWow, I love this article so much, although Im not through reading it. It helped me a lot not only on my homework but also to know my country better it written simply but quite complete..thanks.Gog bless..I hope you could write more =)92Geovert John D. LabitaJan 30, 2012 @ 11:23 pmis there any agricultural side? i want an agricultural side so i can study it, it is also part of the Philippines..93michael bustardeFeb 5, 2012 @ 7:07 amfood consumptions,,,the traditional way of cooking,,,give me some ideas what are the preparation if they use artificial seasonings or they cooked it in natural way94oliver c NgwuliFeb 27, 2012 @ 6:06 amIt gives me Joy to read the wonderful people on Earth .I will really enjoy your land as a visitor .Hold your culture .People without culture are not human beings95chris middletonMar 1, 2012 @ 4:04 amFascinating analysis and well written - thank you. I'm particularly interested in the trends changing Filipino society, especially relating to women. How are their attitudes and behaviours changing concerning: family, food, social life, success and particularly health? Would the author be open to discuss these issues on the phone with me? Thanks again!96juwairiyaMar 2, 2012 @ 9:09 amVery informative...fascinating and wonderful...helps me in my research work about the cultures of different tribes... do you know the traditional conflict resolution strategies of muslims in mindanao? Thanks...97coraApr 18, 2012 @ 6:06 amit very good culture it help some some os stuednt to search about the filipino culture98DonkorMay 29, 2012 @ 2:02 amThis is a great read. Learning about different cultures around the world is amazing to me. Especially when it comes to fighting for freedom and developing a unique  culture. Visit donkordesigns.com to view my art of different cultures around the world99Deanna MurdorfJun 2, 2012 @ 1:13 pmI want to thank you for the wonderful information that has been provided.  I am a Filipino born and raised in the United States and I have learned so much about the Filipino culture from this article.100clint s. ilardeJun 19, 2012 @ 7:07 amits interesting so much i love being a filipino citizens.101mark john t. pepitoJun 27, 2012 @ 1:01 ambeing born in  this beautiful country(PHILIPPINES), is enough for me.But after reading this article, i know that there's a lot of things that can make me proud as a FILIPINO. thanks a lot.102gagahJun 28, 2012 @ 11:23 pmso wonderful informative...love it.fascinating analysis.103eden idolorJul 11, 2012 @ 6:06 amWOW! IT'S NICE TO KNOW SOMETHING ABOUT THE PHILIPPINES, ITS INTERESTING AND I WANNA GO THERE!!104Lolita T. DalmacioJul 17, 2012 @ 2:02 amWe like your website. It is educational. It help some students to know more and more about Filipino culture.105Kimpee BlahingJul 25, 2012 @ 6:06 amWow!, What a nice, informative and interesting article. it's really good reference. thank you for the information... you give deep, broad and concrete knowledge regarding our culture.106Violeta C. PanesAug 6, 2012 @ 9:21 pmI like this, it helps me in my research task and is very informative. Mabuhay Philippines!107JOSEFINO A. RONQUILLOOct 25, 2012 @ 4:04 amWHAT A NICE FEELING BEING A FILIPINO.  AND I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST THAT SOME FILIPINO CULTURES NEED TO REVISIT, TO BE MORE CULTURALLY DIVERSED IN THE WORLD'S CULTURE MAPS108ramonNov 15, 2012 @ 7:19 pmjust confused bout you mentioned that filipinos worked 7 days a week plus taking extra job?109pjbNov 16, 2012 @ 11:23 pmThank You For Making This Article. GOD BLESS PHILIPPINES!110MARJUN LEGASPINov 18, 2012 @ 9:21 pmTNX FOR THIS AETICLE...VERY NICE.. IT HELP ME A LOT..:)111starlife L. asiNov 21, 2012 @ 7:07 amperfect. very comprehensive. I am going to use this in my lectures about Philippine society and culture. Thank you for providing a very comprehensive information.112AudriDec 9, 2012 @ 12:12 pmThis helped me so much with my Cultures Project for school! Who wrote this anyway?113markDec 29, 2012 @ 6:18 pmWoW !! this article helps me lot thanks to the people who wrote it.114Hailey FrankJan 13, 2013 @ 11:11 amTHANKS.This article was just what i was looking for. But could you by chance have some info by the culture? Thank you for spending you time to read this!115elviFeb 16, 2013 @ 9:09 amthank you for the informations but i think the statement about the left over food for breakfast is not true. Maybe you just observed it from the other houses but, "we reheat" it and we call it "sinangag".116RAINFeb 17, 2013 @ 8:08 amI HOPE THAT YOU HAVE AN EXAMPLE OF TRADITIONAL DRAMA, BECAUSE ITS WHAT I NEED, BUT STILL, THANKS.117JelynFeb 17, 2013 @ 10:10 ami'm filiphino i missed alot of cultures and history and i am so thankful to read them because i have alot to learn of my country. thank you118loveFeb 25, 2013 @ 7:19 pmFilipinos are highly unique, this help me to answer the questions in our research...119Nandito B. EspinosaApr 29, 2013 @ 9:09 amthank you for a wonderful and useful information. these really help me a lot in my paper works in my subject.
how i wish it will stay longer, so it could help to other students like me and other who share the same interest.120Joseph Armagh Alvarez EbioJun 7, 2013 @ 8:20 pmI THOUGHT MY TEACHERS FROM ELEMENTARY, HIGH SCHOOL, UNTIL I GRADUATED IN COLLEGE HAVE GIVEN ME ENOUGH KNOWLEDGE ABOUT THE HISTORY OF THE PHILIPPINE GEOGRAPHY BUT AFTER I FINISH READING ALL THE INFORMATION IN THIS ARTICLE, NOW I HAVE LEARNED MORE THAN THEY HAVE TAUGHT ME. I WANT TO THANK THE AUTHOR OF THIS BOOK FOR SHARING US A KNOWLEDGE THAT NOBODY CAN TAKE AWAY FROM US FOREVER. WE FILIPINO'S ARE THE BEST PEOPLE IN ANYTHING IN THE WORLD. MABUHAY TAYONG LAHAT!121Niall's bbyJun 18, 2013 @ 4:04 amVery informative thank you vry much, this is EXACTLT what I need for our subject (Geography)122Lady Antoniette IngcoJul 25, 2013 @ 5:05 amThis article was nice because it's a good reminder for us(Filipinos) to look back on our own history and culture. Thank you for this article I learned a lot about our culture and this helped me in my assignment.

Contributor: OurHappySchool123John KevinJul 29, 2013 @ 8:08 amI was interested about Philippine history when I was in High school. I never thought that there's more about our history. Some of the history and ethics that I just learned here. This is very useful.


John Kevin
Contributor: OurHappySchool124michaelAug 5, 2013 @ 9:21 pmIt is indeed a very informative article.However I would suggest if you can include also the cultural beliefs in housing in very region.125taraSep 22, 2013 @ 6:18 pmit was good but i was wondering "how do people interact with the landscape (past and present)?126Ronnie VillasiDec 8, 2013 @ 7:19 pmGOOD JoB!!! 
Can you make also a blog stating the countries and their contribution to the culture of the Philippines??? Suggestion!!127ysaymishooJan 22, 2014 @ 3:03 amIT WAS GREAT!! thank you for doing this article, it gave me ideas regarding to my report about Filipino culture and traditions..you did a great job! tenx again128jigsheMar 13, 2014 @ 6:06 amWow! It's really informative! It helped me a lot! Some of my friends and I are writting Asian history in Tibetan this year. This article gave me a lot of information about Philippines!  Thank you ver much!129Mary RoseApr 2, 2014 @ 2:14 pmSo much info thats important. Im probably going to get a good grade on this test. I thank the author!130jestoniJun 16, 2014 @ 7:19 pmi learn so much from this site and im very glad to read this article because i was able to share my ideas in the class. :)131jennyJun 17, 2014 @ 11:11 amit was great in showcasing what really filipinos are and can be proud of:)))132shakiraJun 17, 2014 @ 8:20 pmIT WAS AMAZING I LOVED IT! good ues of information well done would wouldnt know all these facts with out you!133Rose Ann DitchonJul 3, 2014 @ 12:00 amI took the reading too long but very informative..it refreshes my memory based on traditions and cultures we have as Filipinos...now I know that I maybe die after my fiance because of the life expectancy for males..thank you for our contributors and sponsors for still supporting the Philippine nation in many needs...that's why our politicians still doing the same act as past politicians did in ancient times..134abnerJul 7, 2014 @ 3:03 amI was interested about their philippine history,when I was a High School level!!!some of history and ethics i just learned here :)135Zaw Lynn AungAug 1, 2014 @ 10:22 pmIt is indeed the useful website as I am in a hurry to know the culture of Southeast Asia Countries' culture to teach my students. Thanks a lot.136FLORVIN A. BAYABORDAAug 11, 2014 @ 11:23 pmWoW !! this article helps me lot thanks to the people who wrote it.137Arleen C. ManaloAug 20, 2014 @ 4:04 ambeautiful and pleasant our culture it is really impormative .138Don SherwynAug 26, 2014 @ 3:15 pmThank you for your comprehensive historical, political, social, and cultural background article. I am engaged to and plan to marry a lovely Filipino lady in the next month or so. Your article's information has expanded my knowledge, understanding, and appreciation for the Philippines and its wonderful people ten-fold.  I noticed that much of the data topped out at the 2000 or early 2000's time-frame. It will be most helpful to people like me if you could put some resources on updating the article with current historical, cultural, social, and other developments.  Thank you and your agencies for putting together such a marvelous study of the Philippines!139mae irabonSep 22, 2014 @ 8:08 ami cnt believed how beautiful our country is..we've been too far yet i cnt imagined what a moment i had every time i go home in my homeland..i love Philippines my beautiful land!!140dexterOct 8, 2014 @ 7:19 pmWHAT A NICE INFORMATION.IT HELPS ME DOING MY PROJECT EASILY. THANKS FOR THIS USEFUL WEBSITE.141HarleyOct 12, 2014 @ 2:02 amThanks to ur article it really helps a lot on my project in english about filipinos!!!
You did a great job! CONGRATS!
Its more fun in the Philippines!!!142TreborOct 13, 2014 @ 1:13 pmgreat article, very usefull and very interesting information Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:Name:E-mail:Show my email publiclyType the code shown:Public Comment:&nbsp (50-4000 characters)  
Culture of The Philippines forum



			« Peru


Poland »
		


		Copyright © 2015 Advameg, Inc.
	



