400 Migrants Feared Drowned Off Libya, According to Aid Agency - NBC News
400 Migrants Feared Drowned Off Libya, According to Aid Agency - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
Lightning Outlast Rangers in OT to Take 2-1 Series Lead
Teacher Charged With Helping Middle-Schoolers Have Sex
Police Identify Suspect in D.C. Family Quadruple Slaying
Waco's Busted Bikers Include Retired Detective







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search















        BREAKING: WATCH LIVE: Rand Paul Opposes Patriot Act on Senate Floor | NHL Playoffs: Lightning vs. Rangers







AP

                            36 days
                            



Europe's Border Crisis
31 of 56  
A Red Cross officer carries a baby wrapped in a blanket after migrants disembarked at the Sicilian Porto Empedocle harbor, Italy, Monday, April 13, 2015. Italy's Coast Guard helped save 144 migrants Monday from a capsized boat in the waters off Libya and spotted nine bodies. It was the most dramatic of numerous rescue operations that brought thousands to safety in recent days, as good weather has encouraged the desperate to set out on smugglers' vessels. The overturned boat was spotted 80 miles north of Libya, Coast Guard Cmdr. Filippo Marini told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. 
 


400 Migrants Feared Drowned Off Libya, According to Aid Agency




















About 400 migrants, including children, are feared drowned after a ship capsized during an attempt to reach Italy from Libya, a children's advocacy group said Tuesday.Approximately 150 survivors were rescued from the shipwreck that occurred 24 hours after departing from the Libyan coast and were taken to Reggio Calabria, Italy, according to Save the Children.The survivors told the agency that "many young boys, probably minors" were likely among the victims.In the last three days alone, more than 5,100 migrants have landed in Italy, Save the Children Italy said in a statement."Many of them have lived experiences of atrocious violence, and have lost friends, relatives or parents, even in recent shipwrecks," Valerio Neri, director of Save the Children Italy, said in the statement. "According to reports, the situation in Libya is getting out of control, with widespread violence in the streets."Over the past few months, a record-setting number of migrants have attempted to reach Europe by way the Mediterranean Sea, fleeing war and hardship in Libya, Gaza, Syria and Egypt.At least 22,000 people have died crossing the Mediterranean since 2000, according to the International Organization for Migration.APMigrants arrive at the Sicilian Porto Empedocle harbor, Italy, on April 13. Italy's Coast Guard helped save 144 migrants Monday from a capsized boat in the waters off Libya and spotted nine bodies. It was the most dramatic of numerous rescue operations that brought thousands to safety in recent days, as good weather has encouraged the desperate to set out on smugglers' vessels. The overturned boat was spotted 80 miles north of Libya, Coast Guard Cmdr. Filippo Marini told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. IN-DEPTHMore Than 4,200 Migrants Rescued From Mediterranean Sea in 5 DaysMore Than 200 Migrants Feared Dead Off Italy: U.N.Italy Rescues Second Abandoned Migrant Ship in Three Days— Daniella Silva and Laura Saravia
First published April 14 2015, 3:36 PM



 

 

 

 











About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

