Philippines - A Collaborative Philippine Leadership
Philippines - A Collaborative Philippine Leadership

A Collaborative Philippine Leadership




Philippines Table of Contents
The most important step in establishing a new political system was
        the successful coaptation of the Filipino elite--called the "policy
        of attraction." Wealthy and conservative ilustrados, the
        self-described "oligarchy of intelligence," had been from the
        outset reluctant revolutionaries, suspicious of the Katipunan and
        willing to negotiate with either Spain or the United States. Trinidad H.
        Pardo de Tavera, a descendant of Spanish nobility, and Benito Legarda, a
        rich landowner and capitalist, had quit Aguinaldo's government in 1898
        as a result of disagreements with Mabini. Subsequently, they worked
        closely with the Schurman and Taft commissions, advocating acceptance of
        United States rule.
        In December 1900, de Tavera and Legarda established the Federalista
        Party, advocating statehood for the islands. In the following year they
        were appointed the first Filipino members of the Philippine Commission
        of the legislature. In such an advantageous position, they were able to
        bring influence to bear to achieve the appointment of Federalistas to
        provincial governorships, the Supreme Court, and top positions in the
        civil service. Although the party boasted a membership of 200,000 by May
        1901, its proposal to make the islands a state of the United States had
        limited appeal, both in the islands and in the United States, and the
        party was widely regarded as being opportunistic. In 1905 the party
        revised its program over the objections of its leaders, calling for
        "ultimate independence" and changing its name to the National
        Progressive Party (Partido Nacional Progresista).
        The Nacionalista Party, established in 1907, dominated the Philippine
        political process until after World War II. It was led by a new
        generation of politicians, although they were not ilustrados
        and were by no means radical. One of the leaders, Manuel Quezon, came
        from a family of moderate wealth. An officer in Aguinaldo's army, he
        studied law, passed his bar examination in 1903, and entered provincial
        politics, becoming governor of Tayabas in 1906 before being elected to
        the Philippine Assembly the following year. His success at an early age
        was attributable to consummate political skills and the support of
        influential Americans. His Nacionalista Party associate and sometime
        rival was Sergio Osmeńa, the college-educated son of a shopkeeper, who
        had worked as a journalist. The former journalist's thoroughness and
        command of detail made him a perfect complement to Quezon. Like Quezon,
        Osmeńa had served as a provincial governor (in his home province of
        Cebu) before being elected in 1907 to the assembly and, at age
        twenty-nine, selected as its first speaker.
        Although the Nacionalista Party's platform at its founding called for
        "immediate independence," American observers believed that
        Osmeńa and Quezon used this appeal only to get votes. In fact, their
        policy toward the Americans was highly accommodating. In 1907 an
        understanding was reached with an American official that the two leaders
        would block any attempt by the Philippine Assembly to demand
        independence. Osmeńa and Quezon, who were the dominant political
        figures in the islands up to World War II, were genuinely committed to
        independence. The failure of Aguinaldo's revolutionary movement,
        however, had taught them the pragmatism of adopting a conciliatory
        policy.
        The appearance of the Nacionalista Party in 1907 marked the emergence
        of the party system, although the party was without an effective rival
        from 1916 for most of the period until the emergence of the Liberal
        Party in 1946. Much of the system's success (or, rather, the success of
        the Nacionalistas) depended on the linkage of modern political
        institutions with traditional social structures and practices. Most
        significantly, it involved the integration of local-level elite groups
        into the new political system. Philippine parties have been described by
        political scientist Carl Landé as organized "upward" rather
        than "downward." That is, national followings were put
        together by party leaders who worked in conjunction with local elite
        groups--in many cases the descendants of the principalía of
        Spanish times--who controlled constituencies tied to them in
        patron-client relationships. The issue of independence, and the
        conditions and timing under which it would be granted, generated
        considerable passion in the national political arena. According to Landé,
        however, the decisive factors in terms of popular support were more
        often local and particularistic issues rather than national or
        ideological concerns. Filipino political associations depended on
        intricate networks of personalistic ties, directed upward to Manila and
        the national legislature.
        The linchpins of the system created under United States tutelage were
        the village- and province-level notables--often labeled bosses or
        caciques by colonial administrators--who garnered support by exchanging
        specific favors for votes. Reciprocal relations between inferior and
        superior (most often tenants or sharecroppers with large landholders)
        usually involved the concept of utang na loob (repayment of
        debts) or kinship ties, and they formed the basis of support for
        village-level factions led by the notables. These factions decided
        political party allegiance. The extension of voting rights to all
        literate males in 1916, the growth of literacy, and the granting of
        women's suffrage in 1938 increased the electorate considerably. The
        elite, however, was largely successful in monopolizing the support of
        the newly enfranchised, and a genuinely populist alternative to the
        status quo was never really established.
        The policy of attraction ensured the success of what colonial
        administrators called the political education of the Filipinos. It was,
        however, also the cause of its greatest failure. Osmeńa and Quezon, as
        the acknowledged representatives, were not genuinely interested in
        social reform, and serious problems involving land ownership, tenancy,
        and the highly unequal distribution of wealth were largely ignored. The
        growing power of the Nacionalista Party, particularly in the period
        after 1916 when it gained almost complete control of a bicameral
        Filipino legislature, barred the effective inclusion of nonelite
        interests in the political system. Not only revolution but also moderate
        reform of the social and economic systems were precluded. Discussions of
        policy alternatives became less salient to the political process than
        the dynamics of personalism and the ethic of give and take.
















    Custom Search
  

Source: U.S. Library of Congress







