Italy’s Premier Calls for Action Before European Meeting on Migrants - NYTimes.com 



Italy’s Premier Calls for Action Before European Meeting on Migrants - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Europe|Italy’s Premier Calls for Action Before European Meeting on Migrants
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1yRJua5




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Europe 
Italy’s Premier Calls for Action Before European Meeting on Migrants

By DAN BILEFSKY and JIM YARDLEYAPRIL 22, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






Migrants rescued in the Mediterranean by the Italian Navy arrived in Sicily on Wednesday.

Credit
            Lynsey Addario for The New York Times        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
LONDON — On the eve of an emergency summit meeting to address Europe’s spiraling migration crisis, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy on Wednesday issued a plea for collective action, and he alluded to a call for the creation of centers in Africa that would process asylum applications in a bid to spare many the perilous sea crossing to Europe.Italy has become the main target of a wave of migrants trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea on often unseaworthy vessels such as the ship that capsized off the coast of Libya over the weekend, killing as many as 900 people. A steady stream of boats has been arriving daily to its shores, confronting the country and the European Union with a humanitarian crisis.“Either we have policies,” he told the lower house of Italy’s Parliament, “or we go nowhere.”He added, “We are asking Europe to be Europe, not just when it’s time to devise a budget.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    






Ship’s Captains Call for Uniform Policies on Migrants at SeaAPRIL 22, 2015












Germany’s Small Towns Feel the Cost of Europe’s Migrant CrisisAPRIL 22, 2015












Migrant Boat Captain Steered Toward Tragedy in Mediterranean, Authorities SayAPRIL 21, 2015










video



Europe’s Migrant CrisisAPRIL 20, 2015












Rising Toll on Migrants Leaves Europe in Crisis; 900 May Be Dead at SeaAPRIL 20, 2015







Mr. Renzi called for the European Union to have a more coordinated strategy, including expanding search-and-rescue patrols and taking action against smugglers in Libya and elsewhere, whom he referred to as “21st-century slave drivers.”
Continue reading the main story
Video

Italian Leader Urges Action for Migrants

Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy addressed the lower house of Parliament on Wednesday in Rome and said the European Union must change its path to tackle the migrant crisis in the Mediterranean.

                By Parliament TV, via Reuters on                                                    Publish Date April 22, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by Remo Casilli/Reuters.
                            





Continue reading the main story


                            Related in Opinion







Op-Ed Contributor: Matteo Renzi: Helping the Migrants Is Everyone’s DutyAPRIL 22, 2015







He also evoked an idea that has previously circulated in Brussels: the establishment of migration centers in African countries, in cooperation with the United Nations, so that would-be migrants could apply for asylum in the European Union from their home countries rather than set off on potentially deadly journeys in search of refuge in Europe.
Photo






The number of migrants who have died in the Mediterranean Sea this year is thought to have  reached 1,727, more than 30 times last year’s toll.

Credit
            Lynsey Addario for The New York Times        


On Thursday, European leaders are expected to discuss proposals to double the size of search-and-rescue operations in the Mediterranean; increase the budget for Frontex, the European Union’s border agency; improve cooperation between the police across the bloc; and intensify the battle against smugglers and human traffickers. 
Continue reading the main story








                    OPEN Graphic                



            Graphic: What’s Behind the Surge in Refugees Crossing the Mediterranean Sea        


European Union officials said on Wednesday that the current budget for the bloc’s border protection operation, known as Triton, was about 3 million euros, or $3.2 million, a month, and that the operation’s resources included two aircraft, two helicopters, six coastal patrol vessels and about 65 officers. Even doubling that would probably not be enough to deal with the scale of the migration crisis, analysts said.The number of people who have died in the Mediterranean Sea this year is thought to have already reached 1,727 migrants, according to the International Organization for Migration — more than 30 times last year’s death toll.However, efforts to forge a common and robust European approach to immigration have faced several challenges in recent years, including weak political will at a time when budgets are stretched and far-right parties that have gained in popularity across the Continent by tapping into resentment against immigrants.The efforts to forge a new European strategy on immigration have also been stymied by the fact that migration policy in the 28-member union is mostly the preserve of national governments rather than Brussels.


Dan Bilefsky reported from London, and Jim Yardley from Catania, Sicily. Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Rome.








Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












