Libya - Latest news on Metro UK 
Libya - Latest news on Metro UK








This site uses cookies. By continuing, your consent is assumed. Learn more














News... but not as you know it

46.6m shares 
Menu
Home
News

UK
World
Weird
Tech


Sport

Football
Oddballs
Club Metro


Entertainment

Showbiz
TV
Film
Music
Gaming
Big Brother 2015
One Direction


Lifestyle

Sex
Fashion
Food
Travel


More

Blogs
Competitions
Jobs
Property


Search Metro

Follow us



 















Libya




CCTV footage shows the moment two soldiers scoured city before raping manThe two defendants allegedly acted like ‘hunting dogs’ when they took it in turns to restrain their victim and rape him.Hundreds of migrants feared dead after boat capsizes in the MediterraneanA total of 28 migrants have been rescued so far, and Italian ships and commercial boats have joined in the rescueInside Gaddafi's former palace compound four years afters his death'We dreamt of a better life after the fall of Gaddafi, but here we are in his ruins.'Egypt launches airstrikes against Isis following mass beheading videoThis latest execution video shows the victims kneeling down on a beach in orange overalls with their executors standing behind.Kidnapped British teacher David Bolam released by militants in LibyaDavid Bolam is now back in the UK with his familyMilitants take over US embassy - then throw pool partyThis is the last thing you’d expect a group of militants to do after taking over a US embassy.











Africa sitting on ‘huge amount’ of water, scientists say



A study of groundwater on a continent-wide scale has revealed that Africa is sitting on a vast reservoir of water, scientists say.




















Tony Blair’s Syria intervention more measured than scarred record suggests



Tony Blair has declared God will judge him on the rightness or otherwise of going to war in Iraq. Yet a vociferous earthbound verdict on his record has greeted with brickbats – if potentially tainted with confusion – his latest intervention on, well, intervention. Instinctive cries of ‘war criminal’, understandable as they may be to […]




















Annick Cojean reveals the dark secrets of Gaddafi’s harem



Libyan female guards once intrigued the world. Journalist Annick Cojean tells Andrew Williams the horrific truth




















Al Ahli Tripoli coach Hossam Al Badri shot at by Libyan gunmen after game



The coach of Libyan team Al Ahli Tripoli was shot at by gunmen hours after his team drew a league match.




















Libyan prime minister Ali Zeidan ‘freed’ after kidnap by armed men



Libya's prime minister has reportedly been freed by former rebels hours after being kidnapped by gunmen.




















US told to explain navy ‘kidnapping’ of target in Libya



The US has been accused of 'kidnapping' after an alleged al-Qaeda leader was captured in a special forces raid in Libya.




















John Kerry: Raids in Africa show US won’t forget attacks and won’t relent in fighting terrorism



US secretary of state John Kerry has said terrorists ‘can run but they can’t hide’ after special forces carried out two separate raids against Islamist terrorists in Africa.




















History lessons suggest military might may make Syria no better – maybe worse



Whatever may follow in Syria amid semi-inevitable while semi-unlikely airstrikes, David 'heir to Blair' Cameron can claim to be even quicker off the draw than that 'warmonger' who went before.




















Two guards and teenage girl injured after car bomb rips through French embassy in Libya



A car bomb has exploded outside the French embassy in the Libyan capital Tripoli, injuring two guards and a teenage girl and causing major damage.




















Three British aid workers ‘kidnapped and raped’ in Libya



Three British aid workers were kidnapped and raped in Benghazi, Libyan authorities say.




















UK police investigating Lockerbie bombing to visit Libya in March, David Cameron announces



British police investigating the Lockerbie bombing are to visit Libya, David Cameron has announced during a surprise visit to Tripoli.




















Foreign Office aware of potential threat against British embassy in Tripoli, Libya



Fears over the safety of British nationals in parts of north and eastern Africa have again been raised after the Foreign Office said it was aware of a 'potential threat' against the British embassy in Tripoli, Libya.




















£2m payout to father who MI6 delivered to Muammar Gaddafi



A dissident has won a £2million payout after claiming British spies helped send him home to Libya to be jailed and tortured. Sami al-Saadi, a prominent opponent of Muammar Gaddafi, was forced on to a plane and secretly flown to Tripoli with his wife and four children in 2004. It has emerged ministers have settled […]




















Libya: Deadly Tripoli car bombs blamed on Muammar Gaddafi loyalists



Two car bombs in Libya's capital Tripoli have been blamed on remnants of the regime of Muammar Gaddafi, as the capital prepares to mark the one-year anniversary of its liberation.

   




















YouTube video shows rebels mocking Gaddafi’s corpse



A video showing the body of Libyan dictator 
Muammar Gaddafi being used by rebels as a ventriloquist’s dummy has surfaced online.




















Alex Crawford: Picking up OBE was scarier than reporting in Libya



Journalist Alex Crawford said collecting her OBE at Buckingham Palace was far more frightening than reporting live from war zones.

   




















Yvonne Fletcher investigation renewed as Soctland Yard officers fly to Libya



A team of Scotland Yard detectives is to fly to Libya to try to finally solve the murder of PC Yvonne Fletcher, it emerged last night.




















David Cameron says dead Lockerbie bomber al-Megrahi ‘should never have been released’



David Cameron has reacted to news of the death of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi in Libya by claiming the Lockerbie bomber should not have been released from prison almost three years ago.




















UK intelligence collusion with Muammar Gaddafi’s Libya ‘exposed’



The UK's intelligence-sharing relationship with Muammar Gaddafi's Libyan regime before its collapse last year has come under new scrutiny amid claims MI5 handed on defectors' details and MI6 colluded in an operation to ensnare Islamic extremists.









 

Page 1 of 912345...»Last »




 
Must read 




 

















Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy and Cookies
Site map
 

Your ad choices

© 2015 Associated Newspapers LimitedPowered by WordPress.com VIP





 
 








Get us in your feed
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter





































