Flooding in the Philippines - Mission Network News
Flooding in the Philippines - Mission Network News


Skip to content
















Stay Connected




Mission Network News 

News

IDOP Radio Broadcast 2014
Archives
Free E-mail Updates
Interviews
Other Formats
World Regions
Popular Topics


Mission Groups

All Groups
Group Categories


Mission Trips

Search Mission Trips
Mission Focus
FAQ
About STMDb


Radio Stations

Station Search
Add Your Station
Download
Download Signup


Resources

Free Prayer Calendar
Bulletin Insert
Privacy/Terms


Podcasts

1 Minute
2 Minutes
4.5 Minutes
Interviews


About MNN

Mission
Staff
Sitemap
Contact Us


Support MNN

Prayer
Donate










News Around the World

Published on 21 January, 2014 











Staff Blogs







Flooding in the Philippines

					Published by Greg Yoder  on January 21, 2014 


Philippines (MNN) — While the Philippines continues reeling from Typhoon Haiyan, now torrential rains are creating even more destruction as flooding in the Philippines has hit the south.
Bridge out because of flooding in the Philippines(World Mission Photo).
World Mission Executive Director Greg Kelley says their partners are “responding to about four feet of rain, just in the month of January, that has created all kinds of havoc with floods and landslides. What they’re saying is about 800,000 people have been affected in the Southern Philippines with 120,000 people being displaced from their homes.”
40 people have lost their lives. Kelley says, “Just as we thought we were getting on the other side of the emergency relief to the typhoon victims, now we have an equal crisis in the southern part.”
The amount of rain they received in less than a month “equals the amount of rain New York gets in a full year,” says Kelley.
Flooding in the Philippines washes out 44 villages in the south (World Mission photo)
In one area, 44 villages are totally underwater. Kelley says World Mission is providing relief and more. “It’s just crisis mode. We’re just trying to get water and food to the evacuees. So, that’s the plea right now. In that effort, we do everything in the context of Bible distribution.”
While the southern part of the country is predominately Muslim, radical elements seem to disappear. “They don’t ask if you’re a Christian or a Muslim; they’re just appreciative of the response. So, it really allows the body of Christ a unique opportunity [to share] the Gospel.”
The goal is to eventually provide Treasures, solar-powered audio Bibles, along with the aid. Click here to support World Mission’s efforts.




Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name 

Mail (will not be published) 

Website












Today's Audio: 




Download:  1min
2min
4-5min
  
About Philippines


Primary Language: Tagalog
Primary Religion: Christianity
Evangelical: 12.3%

More News About Philippines
Info About Philippines
Data from the Joshua Project

About this OrganizationNews for this OrganizationProfile PagePhone: 616-534-5689Alt Phone: 866-77WORLDFax: 866-778-0868Web siteWorld Mission2900 Wilson Ave, SW Suite 110Grandville, MI49426
Related Interviews
Flooding in the Philippines


Call to actionPray that World Mission will be able to supply food, water, and God's Word to flood victims. Related NewsIndigenous church-planting movement yields dividends Gospel is gaining ground despite persecutionReligious conflict on global uptickFH creates Child-Friendly Spaces  

Tagged: displaced, flooding, greg kelley, philippines, treasure, world mission No Comments 







Free Resources
Free Resources
Stop by and see!




MNN FEATURED LINKS8 January, 2015To help support Kids Alive Lebanon's refugee work, click here.You can join Haggai's global community by volunteering, supporting their work financially, or by training with them.Support Vision Beyond Borders work around the world.Sign up for Passion 2015! 
Featured Mission Group



Scriptures In Use
Find Out More About This Organization


Christian Aid Mission
Find Out More About This Organization


Vision Beyond Borders
Find Out More About This Organization


Buckner International
Find Out More About This Organization


SAT-7
Find Out More About This Organization


Mission Eurasia
Find Out More About This Organization


Faith Comes By Hearing
Find Out More About This Organization


Open Doors USA
Find Out More About This Organization


Slavic Gospel Association
Find Out More About This Organization





Featured Mission Trip
Hope for India - 11/29/2014
Location: India
Magnificent historical sites attract millions of tourists and students from across India and the world to India's Rajasthan state. But the beautiful architecture can't cure the brokenness they carry with them--a cure that is only found in Jesus. Partnering with national India Campus Crusade for Christ® staff members and local churches, you will have the...
Find Out More About This Trip





Mobile Ad 1





Mobile Ad 2





Mobile Ad 3







« Gospel is gaining ground despite persecution
Religious conflict on global uptick »





















Login


Username



Password


 Remember Me





Lost your password?





Reset Password


Username or E-mail:







Log in











Greg Yoder
Ruth Kramer
Katey Hearth
 

















