Typhoon Haiyan hit one year ago - Mission Network News
Typhoon Haiyan hit one year ago - Mission Network News


Skip to content
















Stay Connected




Mission Network News 

News

IDOP Radio Broadcast 2014
Archives
Free E-mail Updates
Interviews
Other Formats
World Regions
Popular Topics


Mission Groups

All Groups
Group Categories


Mission Trips

Search Mission Trips
Mission Focus
FAQ
About STMDb


Radio Stations

Station Search
Add Your Station
Download
Download Signup


Resources

Free Prayer Calendar
Bulletin Insert
Privacy/Terms


Podcasts

1 Minute
2 Minutes
4.5 Minutes
Interviews


About MNN

Mission
Staff
Sitemap
Contact Us


Support MNN

Prayer
Donate










News Around the World

Published on 11 November, 2014 











Staff Blogs







Typhoon Haiyan hit one year ago

					Published by Lindsay Steele  on November 11, 2014 


(Photo Courtesy Advancing Native Missions)
Philippines (MNN/ANM) — One year ago this week, the Philippines were struck with disaster and heartbreak.
Typhoon Haiyan hit, killing about 8,000 people and destroying the livelihood of millions.
Though devastation and grief overtook the country, hundreds of volunteers arrived and brought hope with them.
Advancing Native Missions reports that with generous donations of funds, food, and medicine, they were able to immediately organize 12 relief mission teams and a distribution center.
The teams, led by native missionary leaders, served in the two hardest-hit islands of Leyte and Samar and also served eight other islands.
In as little as two months, the teams helped 10,447 families by providing relief packages. Around 6,500 patients were treated to medical care. 53 homes and churches were repaired. And, hundreds of Bibles were distributed; over 1,500 people became Christians.
ANM staff editor Marlou Barredo is a native of the Philippines. Because she lost family members and watched areas of her homeland being destroyed, she felt compelled to speak up and do something.
Last year, on the ANM Web site, Barredo asked for help for her people. Calmly she said, “I am appealing to the people of the United States of America to please help my people. They are suffering. They are hungry. They are desperate. And they are crying out for help.”
In response, hundreds gave to the ANM relief program.
After Barredo’s video aired and hundreds gave, her husband felt he needed to go to the Philippines, encouraging ministry partners and family members.
A few months later, she joined him and helped in ministering, giving money, food, love, and encouragement to her people.
Now, a year later, ANM previewed another video of Barredo, thanking people for their generous giving. Excitement and joy filled her voice as she said, “I want to express my sincerest and deepest thanks to each and everyone of you for responding to my plea and my cries for help, on behalf of my suffering people and my own loved ones.”
Much recovery has taken place over the last year, yet more progress is needed. Fishing boats destroyed in the typhoon need to be replaced so that families can once again have a means of income. If you can donate, click here.
Pray for people in the Philippines as they continue to deal with loss. Pray that adversity will cause many to hunger for the hope found in God alone.




Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name 

Mail (will not be published) 

Website












Today's Audio: 




Download:  1min
2min
4-5min
  
About Philippines


Primary Language: Tagalog
Primary Religion: Christianity
Evangelical: 12.3%

More News About Philippines
Info About Philippines
Data from the Joshua Project

About this OrganizationNews for this OrganizationProfile PagePhone: 540-456-7111Web siteAdvancing Native MissionsPO Box 5303Charlottesville, VA22905Call to actionRelated NewsChild trafficking in the Dominican Republic and youEvery Child Ministries aids a pastoral people in UgandaFilth, stench don't stop Sisters of CompassionWhat does North Korea gain with prisoner releases? 

Tagged: advancing native missions, philippines, typhoon haiyan, volunteers No Comments 







Free Resources
Free Resources
Stop by and see!




MNN FEATURED LINKS8 January, 2015To help support Kids Alive Lebanon's refugee work, click here.You can join Haggai's global community by volunteering, supporting their work financially, or by training with them.Support Vision Beyond Borders work around the world.Sign up for Passion 2015! 
Featured Mission Group



Scriptures In Use
Find Out More About This Organization


Christian Aid Mission
Find Out More About This Organization


Vision Beyond Borders
Find Out More About This Organization


Buckner International
Find Out More About This Organization


SAT-7
Find Out More About This Organization


Mission Eurasia
Find Out More About This Organization


Faith Comes By Hearing
Find Out More About This Organization


Open Doors USA
Find Out More About This Organization


Slavic Gospel Association
Find Out More About This Organization





Featured Mission Trip
Hope for India - 11/29/2014
Location: India
Magnificent historical sites attract millions of tourists and students from across India and the world to India's Rajasthan state. But the beautiful architecture can't cure the brokenness they carry with them--a cure that is only found in Jesus. Partnering with national India Campus Crusade for Christ® staff members and local churches, you will have the...
Find Out More About This Trip





Mobile Ad 1





Mobile Ad 2





Mobile Ad 3







« What does North Korea gain with prisoner releases?
Haiyan: why updates matter »





















Login


Username



Password


 Remember Me





Lost your password?





Reset Password


Username or E-mail:







Log in











Greg Yoder
Ruth Kramer
Katey Hearth
 

















