Typhoon Haiyan six month update - Mission Network News
Typhoon Haiyan six month update - Mission Network News


Skip to content
















Stay Connected




Mission Network News 

News

IDOP Radio Broadcast 2014
Archives
Free E-mail Updates
Interviews
Other Formats
World Regions
Popular Topics


Mission Groups

All Groups
Group Categories


Mission Trips

Search Mission Trips
Mission Focus
FAQ
About STMDb


Radio Stations

Station Search
Add Your Station
Download
Download Signup


Resources

Free Prayer Calendar
Bulletin Insert
Privacy/Terms


Podcasts

1 Minute
2 Minutes
4.5 Minutes
Interviews


About MNN

Mission
Staff
Sitemap
Contact Us


Support MNN

Prayer
Donate










News Around the World

Published on 12 May, 2014 











Staff Blogs







Typhoon Haiyan six month update

					Published by Greg Yoder  on May 12, 2014 


Rochelle Pamen (20) stands under an umbrella with her grandmother Uldarica Miano (77) in Barangay Calubian, in the municipality of Dulag on Leyte island.
Philippines (MNN/WR) — Up until last November, Uldarica Miano lived a relatively happy life in Calubian, the Philippines. She was a well-loved mother and grandmother who lived by herself and ran a small business. What happened on November 8, 2013, however, changed everything.
On that day, horrific winds and rains of a super typhoon ravaged several islands of the Philippines. Known locally as “Yolanda” and internally as “Typhoon Haiyan,” this storm brought waves up to five meters (16 feet) high that surged inland like a tsunami and destroyed nearly everything in their path. Power lines were knocked out, roads were destroyed, and entire villages were washed away.
By the time the storm was over, Typhoon Haiyan had killed 6,109 people and destroyed 1.1 million homes. This included Uldarica’s home, which was completely destroyed when three coconut trees fell on it.
“Yolanda was no good; it has destroyed everything,” Uldarica said.
Through the generous support of people across North America and around the world, World Renew has been blessed to be able to respond to Typhoon Haiyan for the past six months. This has included the provision of urgently-needed food, hygiene items, medical supplies, water filters, cooking stoves, generators, dishes, mosquito nets, sleeping mats, cooking pots, and other essential items to 8,276 households. It has also included training community leaders to provide trauma counseling, and providing cash to families in exchange for work on community projects.
All of this was made possible thanks to the efforts of 10 volunteer International Relief Managers and dozens of World Renew staff (both locally hired and from the home office).
Through World Renew, Uldarica received food and non-food items such as solar-powered lights. What’s more, the World Renew cash-for-work program enabled the people of Calubian to work together to repair Uldarica’s home.
“I am very thankful to World Renew, because without them, I wouldn’t have anywhere to live,” smiled Uldarica. “Because of them, I believe I will survive.”
Six months after this disaster, World Renew sees many signs of hope as people continue to clear debris, rebuild their communities, and re-start their businesses.
“The people of the Philippines are resilient,” said Wayne deJong, Director of Disaster Response and Rehabilitation for World Renew. “Despite this resiliency, we know that the road ahead will not be an easy one. We expect to be working alongside Haiyan survivors for the next two years. Please continue to keep us in your prayers.”
To read more about World Renew’s response to Typhoon Haiyan over the past six months, please read their Six Month Update. This update also includes financial information for the project to date.




Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name 

Mail (will not be published) 

Website












Today's Audio: 




Download:  1min
2min
4-5min
  
About Philippines


Primary Language: Tagalog
Primary Religion: Christianity
Evangelical: 12.3%

More News About Philippines
Info About Philippines
Data from the Joshua Project

About this OrganizationNews for this OrganizationProfile PagePhone: 800-552-7972Alt Phone: 616-241-1691Web siteWorld Renew1700 28th St SEGrand Rapids, MI49508Call to actionRelated NewsTerrorists continue to attack Christians in NigeriaA very significant drop in the bucketShort-term mission trip to India awaits youMessy South Sudan struggles 

Tagged: philippines, typhoon haiyan, world renew No Comments 







Free Resources
Free Resources
Stop by and see!




MNN FEATURED LINKS7 January, 2015To help support Kids Alive Lebanon's refugee work, click here.You can join Haggai's global community by volunteering, supporting their work financially, or by training with them.Support Vision Beyond Borders work around the world.Sign up for Passion 2015! 
Featured Mission Group



Scriptures In Use
Find Out More About This Organization


Christian Aid Mission
Find Out More About This Organization


Vision Beyond Borders
Find Out More About This Organization


Buckner International
Find Out More About This Organization


SAT-7
Find Out More About This Organization


Mission Eurasia
Find Out More About This Organization


Faith Comes By Hearing
Find Out More About This Organization


Open Doors USA
Find Out More About This Organization


Slavic Gospel Association
Find Out More About This Organization





Featured Mission Trip
Hope for India - 11/29/2014
Location: India
Magnificent historical sites attract millions of tourists and students from across India and the world to India's Rajasthan state. But the beautiful architecture can't cure the brokenness they carry with them--a cure that is only found in Jesus. Partnering with national India Campus Crusade for Christ® staff members and local churches, you will have the...
Find Out More About This Trip





Mobile Ad 1





Mobile Ad 2





Mobile Ad 3







« Evacuations due to Boko Haram violence
Terrorists continue to attack Christians in Nigeria »





















Login


Username



Password


 Remember Me





Lost your password?





Reset Password


Username or E-mail:







Log in











Greg Yoder
Ruth Kramer
Katey Hearth
 

















