Sponsorship of child victims of Typhoon Haiyan
Sponsorship of child victims of Typhoon Haiyan


Skip to content
















Stay Connected




Mission Network News 

News

IDOP Radio Broadcast 2014
Archives
Free E-mail Updates
Interviews
Other Formats
World Regions
Popular Topics


Mission Groups

All Groups
Group Categories


Mission Trips

Search Mission Trips
Mission Focus
FAQ
About STMDb


Radio Stations

Station Search
Add Your Station
Download
Download Signup


Resources

Free Prayer Calendar
Bulletin Insert
Privacy/Terms


Podcasts

1 Minute
2 Minutes
4.5 Minutes
Interviews


About MNN

Mission
Staff
Sitemap
Contact Us


Support MNN

Prayer
Donate










News Around the World

Published on 03 February, 2014 











Staff Blogs







Help a child victim of Typhoon Haiyan

					Published by Julie Oosterhouse  on February 3, 2014 


What future are these children facing without help?(Photo courtesy of Food for the Hungry)
Philippines (MNN) — When Jesus speaks of the end times in Matthew, He mentions that one day we will be reminded of our deeds.
To those who inherit the Kingdom of God, Jesus says, “For I was hungry and you gave Me food, I was thirsty and you gave Me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed Me, I was naked and you clothed Me, I was sick and you visited Me, I was in prison and you came to Me” (Matthew 25:35-36, ESV).
Jesus says that the deeds done unto His brothers are done unto Him. Carried out in today’s world, these acts of Christ-like love can look different from feeding the hungry or clothing the naked. Food For the Hungry, however, reminds us that there are still cases where acting in brotherly love is simply that: feeding the hungry and providing them with shelter.
It has been nearly three months since Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines. But the places hit by the typhoon are still struggling to get back on their feet and to rebuild.
Of the groups affected, children are perhaps the ones that will face the trials the most long-term.
Right now, families are living in lean-to shacks and struggling to find clean water or substantial food. Children are going hungry and playing in dirty and dangerous surroundings. There is no chance for education because schools have been completely wiped out.
You can help change the future from a desolate one to one filled with hope for these children.
Food for the Hungry is asking you to sponsor needy children in the Philippines. Click here if you are interested in providing for a child’s physical, educational, and spiritual needs. If you would like to donate to the efforts to restore the Philippines, click here.
Pray that many struggling families would experience the love of Christ with support like yours.




Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name 

Mail (will not be published) 

Website












Today's Audio: 




Download:  1min
2min
4-5min
  
About Philippines


Primary Language: Tagalog
Primary Religion: Christianity
Evangelical: 12.3%

More News About Philippines
Info About Philippines
Data from the Joshua Project

About this OrganizationNews for this OrganizationProfile PagePhone: 1-800-2-HUNGERSWeb siteFood for the Hungry1224 E. Washington St.Phoenix, AZ85034Call to actionContinue praying for the people affected by Typhoon Haiyan, especially the children who face a desolate future. Consider sponsoring a child today, or giving to the work being done in the Philippines.Related NewsMissions is a family affairPhilippines still needs helpIs U.S. foreign policy hurting Christians?Living in the new Egypt 

Tagged: child sponsorship, children, food for the hungry, hungry, philippines, typhoon haiyan No Comments 







Free Resources
Free Resources
Stop by and see!




MNN FEATURED LINKS8 January, 2015To help support Kids Alive Lebanon's refugee work, click here.You can join Haggai's global community by volunteering, supporting their work financially, or by training with them.Support Vision Beyond Borders work around the world.Sign up for Passion 2015! 
Featured Mission Group



Scriptures In Use
Find Out More About This Organization


Christian Aid Mission
Find Out More About This Organization


Vision Beyond Borders
Find Out More About This Organization


Buckner International
Find Out More About This Organization


SAT-7
Find Out More About This Organization


Mission Eurasia
Find Out More About This Organization


Faith Comes By Hearing
Find Out More About This Organization


Open Doors USA
Find Out More About This Organization


Slavic Gospel Association
Find Out More About This Organization





Featured Mission Trip
Hope for India - 11/29/2014
Location: India
Magnificent historical sites attract millions of tourists and students from across India and the world to India's Rajasthan state. But the beautiful architecture can't cure the brokenness they carry with them--a cure that is only found in Jesus. Partnering with national India Campus Crusade for Christ® staff members and local churches, you will have the...
Find Out More About This Trip





Mobile Ad 1





Mobile Ad 2





Mobile Ad 3







« Is U.S. foreign policy hurting Christians?
Living in the new Egypt »





















Login


Username



Password


 Remember Me





Lost your password?





Reset Password


Username or E-mail:







Log in











Greg Yoder
Ruth Kramer
Katey Hearth
 

















