Philippines News - Real Time Economics - WSJ
Philippines News - Real Time Economics - WSJ









WSJ

WSJ
Facebook
Twitter





Live

Live



Realtor

Realtor



Barron's

Barron's



WSJ+

WSJ+



Product X

Product X









djx


rt


f


r&c


pe&vc


wsj


b






More


Portfolio


BigCharts


Financial News


Professor Journal


SmartMoney


Student Journal


Virtual Stock Exchange


WSJ Classifieds


WSJ Classroom


WSJ Radio


WSJ Wine








SEARCH









	
 
	
			
			
			
					
					
						
							headline
						
						
							
							   goldman
							
												
					
				
					
					
						
							Companies
						
						
							
								
									GOLD
								
								
									Ran
									gold Resources Ltd. ADS
								
								
									U.S.
								
							
												
														
				
			
			
				
					
						View All Search Results »
					
				
			
			
		









The Wall Street Journal



Menu



HomePage
World
U.S.
New York
Business
Tech
Markets
Market Data
Opinion
Life & Culture
Real Estate
Management
CIO Journal
CFO Journal
Risk & Compliance





 
 
 
 


Also in WSJ.com:

Latest News
Today's Paper
Most Popular
Streams (TBD)
Video
Blogs

Editions

U.S.
Asia
Europe


América Latina (Spanish)
Brasil (Portuguese)
??-?? (Simplified Chinese)
??-?? (Traditional Chinese)
?? (Japanese)
?? (Korean)
Indonesia (Bahasa)
India (English)
Deutschland (German)
Russian (Russian)
Türkiye (Turkish)












Log In









Profile
My News
Saved
Portfolio
Old Portfolio
Customize Watchlist


Newsletters & Alerts
Community
Customer Center
LOGOUT



 









Message Center ( new)

















central banking
Global Central Banking in 2015, a First Quarter Update for 25 Economies


Economy
The U.S. Housing Market in 10 Charts
 
Minimum WageEmploymentInflationFedEducation
Hot Topics:
WSJ Economist Survey

Grand Central Newsletter

Central Bank Watch

Central Bank Calendar
 








All posts tagged Philippines
1 - 10 of 37
   
    12:45 AM  ETNov 5, 2014    
EnergyChinaInflationOil PricesPhilippinesTaiwan   
As Oil Falls, Asia Has Room to Support Economies

By Tom Wright




Weaker oil prices are coursing through Asian economies, lowering inflation and giving central banks room to loosen monetary policy at a time of uncertain growth prospects.
Inflation in Taiwan and the Philippines in October was subdued, data released Wednesday showed. Both are among Asia’s better performing economies and analysts had been talking of rate hikes. Read More »
 Comment  Tweet


     
    7:08 AM  ETJul 4, 2014    
AsiaeconomicsInflationInterest RatesPhilippine central bankPhilippines   
Philippine Central Bank Could Raise Rates Despite Easing Inflation

By Cris LaranoThough Philippine inflation eased in June, its central bank could still feel pressure to further tighten monetary policy, with a growing expectation of an increase in overnight rates, which have been left untouched since October 2012.
On Friday, the Philippine Statistics Authority announced that June inflation decelerated to 4.4% after rising to a 30-month high of 4.5% in May. June’s reading brought the average for the first half of the year to 4.2%, at the upper bounds of the central bank’s 3% to 5% target range for this year.
Still, economists predict that inflation has yet to reach its peak, which could happen in August.
These readings give the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas some discomfort, since the bank set its 2015 inflation target at 2% to 4%. Read More »
 Comment (1)  Tweet


     
    7:30 PM  ETJun 22, 2014    
Asiacentral bankingCentral BankInterest RatesPhilippines   
Move on Money-Market Rates Shows Philippines Intent on Tightening

By Cris Larano




The Philippine central bank’s decision to pay higher interest on its special deposit accounts—a tool it uses to control liquidity in the market – represents a change of direction for the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, and an intensification of recent moves to tighten policy.
Even after last Thursday’s increase, however, SDA rates are barely half their level of three years ago.
That’s because until this week the bank had been steadily reducing the interest it pays on the accounts, aiming to force money into the broader economy and support economic growth. Read More »
 Comment  Tweet


     
    7:00 PM  ETJun 18, 2014    
AsiaCentral BankInterest RatesPhilippines   
Philippines Central Bank on Hold But Inflation Rising

By Cris Larano




The Philippine central bank is unlikely to raise rates at its meeting Thursday.
All 11 economists polled by the Wall Street Journal expect the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas to keep overnight rates at record low 3.5% for borrowing and 5.5% for lending.
But a recent pickup in consumer prices and money supply growth is starting to cause some worries. Read More »
 Comment  Tweet


     
    10:49 PM  ETJun 11, 2014    
Asiainvestmentcapital flowsPhilippines   
With Emerging Markets Back in Favor, Money Flows to the Philippines

 




By Cris Larano
Emerging-market assets have come back into favor after several sharp selloffs over the past year — one last summer in anticipation of an end to the U.S. Federal Reserve’s bond-buying program, another early in 2014 on concerns of political or financial instability in some key countries.
Despite ranking as one of Asia’s hottest economies and stock markets last year, the Philippines hasn’t been immune to investors’ shifting moods. As the chart above shows, portfolio flows to the Philippines have fluctuated from month to month.
Lately Manila has come back into favor, registering net inflows in April and May as money floods back to the developing world. In May, portfolio flows into emerging markets hit their highest level since September 2012, at nearly $45 billion, according to the International Institute of Finance. Read More »
 Comment  Tweet


     
    10:20 PM  ETJun 8, 2014    
AsiaEconomy & Businesseconomic growthPhilippines   
American Businesses Flirt With Fast-Growing Philippines

By Trefor Moss


Reuters


U.S. Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker’s recent visit to Manila was a reminder that the U.S. is just as interested in expanding its economic footprint in the region as its military one. Read More »
 Comment  Tweet


     
    3:58 AM  ETJun 5, 2014    
AsiaInflationPhilippinesSoutheast Asia   
With Inflation Surging, Philippine Bank May Need to Tighten Policy

By Cris LaranoInflation in the Philippines spiked to a 30-month high in May, approaching the top of the central bank’s target range and raising the odds of further tightening steps ahead.



Bloomberg News


The consumer price index rose 4.5% on-year in May, its quickest pace since November 2011, on higher prices of food and other commodities, as well as housing. Economists were expecting a reading of 4.2%, while the central bank had forecast a reading between 3.9%-4.7%.
While CPI remains within the bank’s 3.0%-5.0% target range for the year, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Gov. Amando Tetangco Jr. said the data confirm what the central bank has been saying for months: Quick gains in prices are narrowing the room to keep interest rates at record lows. Read More »
 Comment (1)  Tweet


     
    4:15 AM  ETJun 3, 2014    
AsiainfrastructurePhilippines   
Philippines Bets on Better Infrastructure


 
By Cris LaranoThe Philippine government is betting on increased infrastructure spending to sustain economic growth, which slipped below expectations in the first quarter after a string of natural disasters late last year hobbled domestic output.
The Department of Budget and Management has laid out a plan to bolster government spending on public infrastructure–roads, airports, water supply, transportation–to 5% of gross domestic product by the time President Benigno Aquino III leaves office in 2016, up from 1.8% when he took power in June 2010. Read More »
 Comment  Tweet


     
    3:53 AM  ETMay 29, 2014    
AsiaGDPPhilippines   
Philippine Officials Seek New Boost as First-Quarter Growth Disappoints

By Cris LaranoPhilippine authorities are looking at ways to rev up reconstruction and rehabilitation from last year’s natural disasters after data Thursday showed the economy grew in the first quarter at its weakest pace since late 2011.



REUTERS


The Philippine economy expanded 5.7% on-year in the first quarter, well below the 6.4% expected and its slowest pace in nine quarters. Growth was well below the government’s 6.5%-7.5% target for 2014, though it was still among the fastest in Asia so far this year.
The miss wasn’t entirely shocking, given the devastation wrought by natural disasters late last year — particularly November’s Typhoon Haiyan, which caused an estimated $13 billion in damages and losses to the archipelago’s $315 billion economy.
Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said he and other economic managers would meet later Thursday with President Benigno Aquino III to identify projects that can be accelerated to cover the slack in agriculture, tourism and even private construction, which has been hurt by lending restrictions imposed late last year to head off a potential real-estate bubble. Read More »
 Comment  Tweet


     
    9:42 PM  ETMay 28, 2014    
economic growthIndonesiainfrastructurePhilippines   
Risk or Reward? The Trouble With Southeast Asia’s Infrastructure

By Trefor Moss


Bloomberg


Despite recording some of Asia’s fastest growth in recent years, the Philippines is still underinvesting in infrastructure development – and it’s not alone. Read More »
 Comment  Tweet


  



previous 

next 




 






Search Real Time Economics1




Latest Economy News 


About Real Time Economics

RSS



Real Time Economics offers exclusive news, analysis and commentary on the U.S. and global economy, central bank policy and economics. Send news items, comments and questions to the editors and reporters below or email realtimeeconomics@wsj.com.
Read more Economics coverage.

Sign up for Grand Central newsletter

Sign up for Real Time Economics newsletter



Real Time Economics on Twitter





Real Time Economics






        Becky Bowers
      
      Editor
    



        Neil King
      
      Editor
    




        Nell Henderson
      
      Editor
    



        Brian Hershberg
      
      Editor





        Sudeep Reddy
      
      Editor




        Timothy Aeppel
      
      Reporter
    




        Pedro Nicolaci da Costa
      
      Reporter
    



        Michael Derby
      
      Reporter
    




        Jon Hilsenrath
      
      Reporter
    



        Jonathan House
      
      Reporter
    




        Ben Leubsdorf
      
      Reporter
    



        Kathleen Madigan
      
      Reporter
    




        William Mauldin
      
      Reporter
    



      Josh Mitchell
      
      Reporter
    




        Eric Morath
      
      Reporter
    



      Damian Paletta
      
      Reporter
    




        Sarah Portlock
        Reporter
    



        Neil Shah
      
      Reporter
    




        Jeffrey Sparshott
      
      Reporter
    



        Matt Stiles
      
      Reporter
    




        Ian Talley
      
      Reporter
    



      Nick Timiraos
      
      Reporter
    




        Josh Zumbrun
      
      Reporter
    



      David Wessel
      
      Contributor
    


Real Time Economics Categories
Fed 4805Global 3946Credit Crisis 3716Employment 3093Business Cycles 2736Consumption 1783Inflation 1476Trade 1444Housing 1284ECB 1078central banking 821Budgets 705Vital Signs 651Economy 630GDP 618Manufacturing 606Stimulus 435Currency 432Bank of England 430Economy & Business 406   









WSJ Web Slice
CONTENT
LINKS TO ACTUAL PAGE CONTAINING WEB SLICE FUNCTIONALITY.

15





Wall Street Journal
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
FourSquare
Google+
YouTube
Podcasts
RSS Feed
AppStore


Subscribe
/Login 


Back to Top«




Customer Service

Customer Center
New! Live Help

Contact Us
WSJ Weekend
Contact Directory
Corrections



Policy

Privacy Policy
 Cookie Policy
Data Policy
Copyright Policy
Subscriber Agreement& Terms of Use
Your Ad Choices



Advertise

Advertise
Place a Classified Ad
Sell Your Home
Sell Your Business
Commercial Real Estate Ads
Recruitment & Career Ads
Franchising
Advertise Locally



Tools & Features

Apps
Emails & Alerts

Graphics
Columns
Topics
Guides
Portfolio
Old Portfolio



More

Why Subscribe
Register for Free
Reprints

Content Partnerships
Conferences

Price & Volume
Keyword & Symbol
News Archive
Jobs at WSJ







Copyright ©2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.












Schließen
Subscribe Now















close

Email This







								Recipient's Email Address (Separate multiple address with commas)






								Your Email Address
							




								Message (Optional)






								Send me a copy
							






or Cancel












close

Thank You
Your email has been sent.









close

Error.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
			  	Please try again.
			  	





• Invalid email address.
• You can't enter more than 20 emails.
• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.
• Must enter an email address.
• You must enter the verification code below to send.
• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.






          
















