The Philippines During the Martial Law
The Philippines During the Martial Law




















 

 
 



 






 




 
 

 

The Philippines During Martial Law
 





Proclamation 
of Martial Law: On September 21, 1972, President Ferdinand E. Marcos placed the Philippines 
under Martial Law. 
The declaration issued under Proclamation 1081 suspended the civil rights 
and imposed military authority in the country. Marcos defended the 
declaration stressing the need for extra powers to quell the rising wave of 
violence allegedly caused by communists. The emergency rule was also intended to 
eradicate the roots of rebellion and promote a rapid trend for national 
development. The autocrat assured the country of the legality of Martial Law 
emphasizing the need for control over civil disobedience that displays 
lawlessness. Marcos explained citing the provisions from the 
Philippine Constitution that 
Martial Law is a strategic approach to legally defend the Constitution and 
protect the welfare of the Filipino people from the dangerous threats posed by 
Muslim rebel groups and Christian vigilantes that places national security at 
risk during the time. Marcos explained that martial law was not a military 
takeover but was then the only option to resolve the country’s dilemma on 
rebellion that stages national chaos threatening the peace and order of the 
country. The emergency rule, according to Marcos’s plan, was to lead the country 
into what he calls a “New Society”.

Marcos used several events to justify martial law. Threat to the country’s 
security was intensifying following the re-establishment of the Communist Party 
of the Philippines (CPP) in 1968. Supporters of CPP’s military arm, the New 
People’s Army, also grew in numbers in Tarlac and other parts of the country. 
The alleged attempt to the life of then Minister of Defense Juan Ponce Enrile 
gave Marcos a window to declare Martial Law. Marcos announced the emergency rule 
the day after the shooting incident. Marcos also 
declared insurgency in the south caused by the clash between Muslims and 
Christians, which Marcos considered as a threat to national security. The Muslims were defending their ancestral land against 
the control of Christians who migrated in the area. The minority group organized 
the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) in Malaysia and pushed for the 
autonomy of Mindanao from the national government.

The 
move was initially supported by most Filipinos and was viewed by some critics as 
a change that solved the massive corruption in the country. Martial law ceased 
the clash between the executive and legislative branches of the government and 
a bureaucracy characterized by special interest. Marcos started to 
implement reforms on social and political values that hindered effective 
modernization. To match the accomplishments of its Asian neighbors, 
Marcos imposed the need for self-sacrifice for the attainment of national 
welfare. His reforms targeted his rivals within the elite depriving them of 
their power and patronage but did not affect their supporters (US Library of 
Congress, Martial Law and the Aftermath).

Thirty-thousand opposition figures including Senator Benigno Aquino, 
journalists, student and labor activists were detained at military compounds 
under the President’s command (Proclamation 1081 and Martial Law). The army and 
the Philippine Constabulary seized weapons and disbanded private armies 
controlled by prominent politicians and other influential figures (Proclamation 
1081 and Martial Law). Marcos took control of the legislature and closed the 
Philippine Congress 
(Proclamation 1081 and Martial Law). Numerous media outfits were either closed 
down or operated under tight control (Proclamation 1081 and Martial Law). 
Marcos also allegedly funnelled millions of the country’s money by 
placing some of his trusted supporters in strategic economic positions to 
channel resources to him. Experts call this the “crony capitalism.”

The deterioration of the political and economic condition in the Philippines 
triggered the decline of support on Marcos’ plans. More and more Filipinos took 
arms to dislodge the regime. Urban poor communities in the country’s capital 
were organized by the Philippine Ecumenical Council for Community and were soon 
conducting protest masses and prayer rallies. These efforts including the 
exposure of numerous human rights violations pushed Marcos to hold an election 
in 1978 and 1981 in an aim to stabilize the country’s chaotic condition. Marcos, 
in both events, won the election; however, his extended term as President of the 
Republic of the Philippines elicited an extensive opposition against his regime. 
Social unrest reached its height after former Senator Benigno Aquino was 
murdered. The incident sent thousands of Filipinos to the streets calling for 
Marcos’ removal from post. Turning again to his electoral strategy, Marcos held 
a snap election in 1986 but what he hoped will satisfy the masses only increased 
their determination to end his rule that seated Corazon Aquino, widow of Benigno 
Aquino, as President of the Philippines ousting Marcos from 
Malacañang Palace 
and ending the twenty-one years of tyrant rule.
 
Continue to the
EDSA People Power Revolution.
 

Back to Philippine History - Home Page
 





 
Copyright © 2005-2014 PHILIPPINE-HISTORY.ORG

Last modified: 
12-Feb-2014



