New Eruptions at Mayon in the Philippines Prompts Evacuations | WIRED 

New Eruptions at Mayon in the Philippines Prompts Evacuations | WIRED





WIRED





					GEAR




Autopia







Why We Don't Need Real-Time Flight Tracking









I Rode 500 Miles in a Self-Driving Car and Saw the Future. It's Delightfully Dull









Mercedes Reinvents the Car With a Bonkers Self-Driving Concept



  



Gadget Lab







CES 2015 Liveblog Day 4









Why Cheap Cameras and Boring Sensors Make the Best Smart-Home Stuff









11 Hot Products From CES: Wind-Up Birds, Curvy TVs, and Beer-Brewing Robots



  



Reviews







Review: UE Megaboom









Review: OXO Cold Brew Coffee Maker 









The Ultimate Electric Sports Car Is Only 4 Feet Long



  

 



					SCIENCE




Science







Adventures in Mapmaking: Mapping a Fracking Boom in North Dakota









Fantastically Wrong: That Time People Thought a Comet Would Gas Us All to Death









Astronomers Get Closer Than Ever in the Hunt for Earth's Twin



  



Science Blogs







Eruption Update for January 7, 2015: Fogo, Popocatépetl, Colima









The Robotification of Society is Coming









Adventures in Mapmaking: Mapping a Fracking Boom in North Dakota



  

 



					ENTERTAINMENT




Game|Life







A Videogame That Teaches You to Write Poetry, Even if It Intimidates You









25 Videogames We Can't Wait to Play in 2015









Out-of-Print Games We Were Thrilled to Play Again in 2014



  



Playbook







The Physics of a Flawless Triple Cork 1620 Snowboard Flip









This Wristband Tracks Your B-Ball Skills and Suggests Shooting Drills









How This Guy Is Training to Do 50 Ultradistance Triathlons in 50 Days



  



Underwire







The Podcasts You Need to Listen to This Week









WIRED Binge-Watching Guide: The Venture Bros.









Behind the Scenes of Bangladesh's Wild and Surreal Movies



  

 



					BUSINESS




Business







Intel Invests $300 Million to Improve Its Workplace Diversity 









The Amazon Fire Phone Was Always Going to Fail









Kickstarter Ditches Amazon Payments for Stripe



  

Business Conference


Promotion





					In today's business world, disruption is a constant force that never lets up. At the annual WIRED Business Conference: Disruptive by Design, we celebrate the creative power of bold new ideas and the people that make them happen.
					

					See the event >
				



 


Enterprise







FCC's Chairman Hints at Move Towards Net Neutrality









Open Source Databases Keep Chipping Away at Oracle's Empire









The Life-Planning Tool That Aims to Fix Tech's Diversity Problem



  



Innovation Insights







Potent Secrets to Innovation









Learners, Teachers, and Technology: Personalization in 2015 and Beyond









Why Mobile Payments Adoption Has Been Slow –  And Why That’s About to Change



  

 



					SECURITY




Danger Room







The Navy's New Robot Looks and Swims Just Like a Shark









America's Toughest, Ugliest Warplane Is Going Back Into Battle









How the World's First Computer Was Rescued From the Scrap Heap



  



Threat Level







FBI Director: Sony's 'Sloppy' North Korean Hackers Revealed Their IP Addresses









Major Bitcoin Exchange Bitstamp Goes Offline After Possible Hack









The Flying Hospital That Rushes Wounded Soldiers to Safety



  

 



					DESIGN




Design







A Magical Glowing Forest Made With Light and Code









3-D Printed Prosthetics That Look Fit for a Sci-Fi Warrior









To Save Our Ecosystems, Will We Have to Design Synthetic Creatures?



  



Raw File







The Biggest Statues in the World Tower Over Everyday Life









Artists Put Rooms on City Streets and Invite You to Play House









From Hidden Snipers to Train Surfers, WIRED's Best Photo Stories of the Year​



  

 



					OPINION




Opinion







Terrorists Can't Kill Charlie Hebdo's Ideas









Our System Is So Broken, Almost No Patented Discoveries Ever Get Used









WIRED's Best Tweets of 2014



  

 



					MAGAZINE


Current Issue





Subscribe










The Dining Innovations That Helped Us Conquer the Seas









Biochemists Are Turning Genetically Modified Yeast Into Perfume and Opioids









The Man Who Forecasts Avalanches in America's Riskiest Snowpack






 

Video









Insider









			Subscribe
		



 







  

RSS


Search


 
 
  


 















Eruptions

 


New Eruptions at Mayon in the Philippines Prompts Evacuations



By Erik Klemetti  
09.17.14  |  
9:19 am  |  
Permalink 


Share on Facebook0 

Tweet
 


 


 







The conical summit of Mayon in the Philippines. Paths of previous lava flows and pyroclastic flows can be seen on the steep slopes of the volcano.  Tryfon Topalidis / Wikimedia Commons
Quick post before I take off for the Department of Geosciences Fall Field Trip. If you’re looking for the current status of the eruption in Iceland, be sure to check out the Icelandic Meteorological Office.
However, today’s post is about the renewed activity at Mayon in the Philippines. It appears that lava is now actively extruding at the summit of the volcano, producing rock falls of incandescent blocks of lava. Seismic activity has increased dramatically over the last week and the style of earthquakes suggests to geologists at PHIVOLCS that magma is ascending inside the volcano. They have increased the alert status at Mayon from 2 to 3 (on a 5 level scale) and say that the potential for a “hazardous eruption” within weeks is high.
What this means in a practical scene is that over 24,000 people are now being evacuated from an 8-km radius around Mayon. The Philippine government is establishing refugee camps for the first evacuees* and readying more if the situation at the volcano suggests that a larger evacuation is needed. The largest hazard posed by Mayon is that of pyroclastic flows generated by the collapse of the new lava dome forming at the summit (or possibly from any explosive eruptions that might occur). Mayon is definitely one of the most active volcanoes in the Philippines — and even when it is not in an active eruption period, steam explosions at the summit can be deadly. The Philippine government is watching the activity closely to determine if and when more evacuations are needed.

As I mentioned with the eruption of Rabaul, this activity at Mayon has the potential to have much more direct consequences on people than the activity in Iceland. In the Western Pacific and Southeast Asia, hundreds of thousands of people live within a few tens of kilometers of these potentially highly explosive volcanoes. At Mayon, that number is over 250,000 people within 10 kilometers! Keeping a close eye on these eruptions is definitely a necessity to protect those lives.
* AUTHOR’S NOTE: This article from the Philippine Star quotes a PHIVOLCS volcanologist as saying that Mayon is “overdue” for a large explosive eruption. This is based on a grand total for 2 prior eruptions in 1814 and 1897. I wouldn’t believe this sort of talk as 2 data points cannot be used to set such a pattern, even if it existed.




Share on Facebook0
Tweet







 Reddit 

Digg
Stumble Upon
Email



	Tags: evacuations, Mayon, Philippines, seismicity, volcano hazards, volcano monitoring

Discuss | 
Permalink
 












 
About Erik Klemetti



Subscribe



Erik Klemetti is an assistant professor of Geosciences at Denison University. His passion in geology is volcanoes, and he has studied them all over the world. You can follow Erik on Twitter, where you'll get volcano news and the occasional baseball comment. 


Wired Science Blogs
Our network of all-star science bloggers.




Beyond Apollo
David S. F. Portree





Brain Watch
Christian Jarrett





Charismatic Minifauna
Gwen Pearson





Dot Physics
Rhett Allain





Elemental
Deborah Blum





Empirical Zeal
Aatish Bhatia





Eruptions
Erik Klemetti





The Extremo Files
Jeffrey Marlow





Map Lab
Wired Map Addicts





Proof
Adam Rogers





Social Dimension
Samuel Arbesman





Superbug
Maryn McKenna





Zoologic
Mary Bates



Read the latest Wired Science Blogs articles


Follow us on Twitter




SPACE PHOTO OF THE DAY










Wired
science blogs
    


            Editor
        

Betsy Mason




Manager


Nick Stockton



Subscribe to Wired Magazine







 






Advertisement



Services







Quick Links:
Contact Us
|
Login/Register
Logout
|
Newsletter
|
RSS Feeds
|
WIRED Jobs
|
WIRED Mobile
|
FAQ
|
Sitemap




 


 


Collapse

Previous Article
Two Comedians (And Totally Unqualified Critics) Preview the New TV Season


Next Article
Wearables Present a Huge Challenge to News Publishers, and That’s a Good Thing

 


FAQ | 
Contact Us | 
WIRED Staff | 
Advertising | 
Press Center | 
Subscription Services | 
Newsletter | 
RSS Feeds


Condé Nast Web Sites:
Webmonkey |
Reddit | 
ArsTechnica |
Details |
Golf Digest |
GQ |
New Yorker





Subscribe to a magazine:
View All Titles
Allure
Architectural Digest
Bon Appétit
Brides
Condé Nast Traveler
Details
Glamour
Golf Digest
Golf World
GQ
Lucky
Self
Teen Vogue
The New Yorker
Vanity Fair
Vogue
W
WIRED


Condé Nast web sites:
Allure
Architectural Digest
ArsTechnica
Bon Appétit
Brides.com
Condé Nast Traveler
Condé Nast Portfolio
Concierge
Details
Epicurious
Glamour
Golf Digest
Golf World
GQ
Hotel Chatter
Jaunted
Lucky
Nutrition Data
Reddit
Self
Style.com
Teen Vogue
The New Yorker
The Scene
Vanity Fair
Vogue
Webmonkey
W


International Sites:
Wired UK
Wired Italy
Wired Japan





WIRED.com © 2015 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this Site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (effective 01/02/2014) and Privacy Policy (effective 01/02/2014). Your California Privacy Rights.
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices

 








 
























