Philippines Archives | UNICEF USA Blog
Philippines Archives | UNICEF USA Blog








Contact Us








UNICEF's Work
People & Partners
About Us




Donate
Volunteer
Shop











UNICEF USA Blog


Categories

Philippines
News
Field Visits
Events
Advocacy
Emergencies
Partners
Photos
Videos
Volunteers

Subscribe
 
RSS










Home  Blog



Category Archives: Philippines



Thank You for Supporting the UNICEF Tap Project

April 1, 2014 — It was a huge success: more than 2.5 million people stayed away from their phones for nearly 250 million minutes. As this year’s UNICEF Tap Project comes to a close, we would like to thank everyone who participated, supported and sponsored the campaign — you made it happen! The UNICEF Tap Project proposed a simple […]
See whole post »





UNICEF Restores Access to Water in Emergencies

March 27, 2014 — This month, the UNICEF Tap Project is highlighting the issue of clean water by challenging you to go without your phone. We’ve been sharing ways in which UNICEF improves access to clean water. No situation is more pressing than an emergency, when restoring access to clean water is key to preventing the spread of disease. […]
See whole post »





Four Months After Typhoon Haiyan

March 14, 2014 — The pain of loss still cuts deep in the Philippines four months after Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) killed more than 6,000 people, but there is also a growing sense that recovery is possible. A new UNICEF report, Four Months After [pdf], describes both the progress made and the challenges that lie ahead for Filipino children. Some highlights: 14.1 […]
See whole post »





New Report on the World’s Most Urgent Children’s Crises

February 27, 2014 — UNICEF is making a big push for Syria’s children in its annual appeal to respond to the world’s most critical emergencies. Nearly 40 percent of the 2014 humanitarian action appeal is designated as aid for children in Syria and the surrounding region, an indication that UNICEF is redoubling its efforts to ensure that Syria’s traumatized […]
See whole post »





Child-Friendly Spaces Offer Fun, Safety and Relief

January 29, 2014 — PBS featured UNICEF this month in a blog post highlighting Child-Friendly Spaces – safe places where children can gather, learn and play during conflicts and emergencies. Even as simple as a tent or an outdoor classroom, a Child-Friendly Space plays an enormous role in giving a child a sense of normalcy amid chaos. Children are especially vulnerable […]
See whole post »





Texas Students Support Typhoon Haiyan Relief Efforts

January 21, 2014 — Liz Thompson is Director of Marketing & Public Relations at Saint Mary’s Hall. Students at Saint Mary’s Hall in San Antonio, Texas, raised $4,000 for Typhoon Haiyan relief efforts in the Philippines. The students presented the check to Henry Halff, a longtime supporter of the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, during their weekly Chapel service on […]
See whole post »







Page 1 of 612345...NextLast
 










UNICEF's Work

Children With Disabilities
Education
Emergency Relief
Immunization
Malaria
HIV/AIDS
Nutrition
Protection
Water & Sanitation
U.S. Initiatives



People & Partners

UNICEF Ambassadors
Corporate Partners
Foundation Partners
NGO Supporters
Sports Partners



About Us

Leadership
Next Generation
Audrey Hepburn Society
Danny Kaye Society
Regional Offices
Special Events
FAQ
Jobs
Contact Us



Donate Now
Volunteer With Us
Shop For Gifts


For the Media
Follow UNICEF USA

Facebook
Twitter
Google+
YouTube
Instagram
Pinterest







© 2015 United States Fund for UNICEF. All rights reserved.
(800) 367-5437 125 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10038

FAQ
Jobs
Site Map
Privacy
Contact















