typhoon haiyan Archives | UNICEF USA Blog
typhoon haiyan Archives | UNICEF USA Blog








Contact Us








UNICEF's Work
People & Partners
About Us




Donate
Volunteer
Shop











UNICEF USA Blog


Categories

Philippines
News
Field Visits
Events
Advocacy
Emergencies
Partners
Photos
Videos
Volunteers

Subscribe
 
RSS










Home  Blog



Tag Archives: typhoon haiyan


Four Months After Typhoon Haiyan

March 14, 2014 — The pain of loss still cuts deep in the Philippines four months after Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) killed more than 6,000 people, but there is also a growing sense that recovery is possible. A new UNICEF report, Four Months After [pdf], describes both the progress made and the challenges that lie ahead for Filipino children. Some highlights: 14.1 […]
See whole post »





L.A.’s Global Citizens Help UNICEF in the Philippines

February 20, 2014 — Annie Kim is a Global Citizenship Fellow at the U.S. Fund for UNICEF in Los Angeles, CA.  It’s been a little over three months since Typhoon Haiyan first struck the Philippines. Though the destructive super typhoon left immense devastation in its wake, the outpouring of international support showed the people of the Philippines that they […]
See whole post »





Texas Students Support Typhoon Haiyan Relief Efforts

January 21, 2014 — Liz Thompson is Director of Marketing & Public Relations at Saint Mary’s Hall. Students at Saint Mary’s Hall in San Antonio, Texas, raised $4,000 for Typhoon Haiyan relief efforts in the Philippines. The students presented the check to Henry Halff, a longtime supporter of the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, during their weekly Chapel service on […]
See whole post »





2013 in Review: UNICEF’s Year in Pictures

December 31, 2013 — From the Philippines to Syria to the Sahel, in 2013 UNICEF delivered vital services to children in crisis. Here at home, the U.S. Fund for UNICEF mobilized support from people across the United States to guarantee that UNICEF will be there in the coming year to help and protect the world’s most vulnerable children, wherever […]
See whole post »





Philippines After Haiyan: The Christmas Trees of Tacloban

December 25, 2013 — Angela Kearney is a native of Christchurch, New Zealand, and has worked for the United Nations and for UNICEF in more than ten countries. She is leading UNICEF’s emergency relief efforts in Tacloban. For the past six weeks, I have been living in Tacloban, the epicenter of the destruction wrought by the notorious Typhoon Haiyan […]
See whole post »





UNICEF Haiyan Relief: Back to School in the Philippines

December 10, 2013 — Typhoon Haiyan (locally known as Yolanda) destroyed up to 90 percent of all schools in affected areas when it tore through the Philippines a month ago leaving over a million students and 35,000 teachers without places to learn and teach. Students at schools across Leyte province are learning again, thanks to UNICEF temporary schools, UNICEF School-in-a-Box […]
See whole post »







Page 1 of 41234Next
 










UNICEF's Work

Children With Disabilities
Education
Emergency Relief
Immunization
Malaria
HIV/AIDS
Nutrition
Protection
Water & Sanitation
U.S. Initiatives



People & Partners

UNICEF Ambassadors
Corporate Partners
Foundation Partners
NGO Supporters
Sports Partners



About Us

Leadership
Next Generation
Audrey Hepburn Society
Danny Kaye Society
Regional Offices
Special Events
FAQ
Jobs
Contact Us



Donate Now
Volunteer With Us
Shop For Gifts


For the Media
Follow UNICEF USA

Facebook
Twitter
Google+
YouTube
Instagram
Pinterest







© 2015 United States Fund for UNICEF. All rights reserved.
(800) 367-5437 125 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10038

FAQ
Jobs
Site Map
Privacy
Contact















