Philippines Typhoon 2014 - Hagupit (Ruby) | UNICEF USA
Philippines Typhoon 2014 - Hagupit (Ruby) | UNICEF USA













UNICEF United States Fund


Menu



Donate
How to Helpshop
Fundraise
advocate
Sign Up
holiday gifts
give monthly
tribute gifts
volunteer




sign inregister



our missionSaving LivesEbola
Water
Nutrition
Immunization
HIV/AIDS
Malaria

Building FuturesEducation
Trafficking
Violence
Disabilities

Emergency ReliefConflict
Earthquakes
Food Crises
Floods
Hurricanes
Tsunamis

Where UNICEF WorksIraq
Syria
Central African Republic
South Sudan
Philippines

U.S. Fund InitiativesTrick-or-Treat for UNICEF
UNICEF Tap Project
Eliminate Project
End Trafficking
U.S. Volunteering
U.S. Advocacy
TeachUNICEF


our supportersDonorsEnd of Year Giving
Monthly Donors
Next Generation
Planned Giving Donors
Audrey Hepburn Society

VolunteersOnline Activists
Fundraisers
College Clubs
High School Clubs
Marathon Runners
Teachers

OrganizationsBusinesses
Foundations
Faith-based Groups
Civil Society Partners

Regional CommunitiesMidwest
New England
New York
Northwest
Southeast
Southern California
Southwest

CelebritiesUNICEF Ambassadors
Athletes, Teams & Sports Leagues


about usPeopleBoard of Directors
Senior Management
Careers

OfficesNew York (Headquarters)
Atlanta
Boston
Chicago
Dallas
Houston
Los Angeles
San Francisco
Washington, D.C.

Finances91% of Every $1 Spent Helps Kids
Charity Navigator: Highest Rating
Better Business Bureau Accredited
Download 2013 Annual Report [PDF]

Contact UsFrequently Asked Questions
Email
Facebook
Twitter
(800) 367-5437






Search form

Search 


















Hurricane.jpg

 












Emergency Relief 




Philippines Typhoon 2014 - Hagupit (Ruby)


December 4, 2014


By
    
  
  Claire Manibog and Michael Sandler
  
  

SubscribeRSS





A new super typhoon threatens the Philippines.













***UPDATE: TYPHOON HAGUPIT (RUBY) HITS THE PHILIPPINES***
The Philippines is on high alert as a significant tropical cyclone gathers strength in the Western Pacific 13 months after the country was devastated by Super Typhoon Haiyan. The new storm, Super Typhoon Hagupit, has wind gusts of up to 170 km/h (105 mph) the BBC reports.
While wind speeds are not expected to be as strong as those of Typhoon Haiyan, the most powerful typhoon on record, Hagupit (called Ruby within the Philippines) has the potential to bring with it a significant and destructive storm surge up to four meters high if it does make landfall in the country. The most recent forecasts indicate an increasing likelihood of danger for the Philippines and possible landfall on Saturday evening local time.













Preparing for the Storm
The 54-person UNICEF Tacloban Office, established after that city suffered catastrophic damage by Haiyan, is working with the local and national governments on preparedness and response. Pre-positioned supplies include water and hygiene kits, water purification units, school tents, medical supplies and generators. Supplies have also been prepositioned in Manila and Cotabato warehouses. In Manila, the UNICEF Country Office is working closely with the government and other UN agencies to ensure that efforts are coordinated in the coverage and delivery of aid should it be needed. UNICEF Philippines has also been working to disseminate storm preparedness information through its Twitter and Facebook feeds in advance of Hagupit's possible landfall.
Are you preparing for #Hagupit #RubyPH? Here's an emergency food checklist to help you. pic.twitter.com/ORk9JnggPC
— UNICEF Philippines (@unicefphils) December 4, 2014











 
Rebuilding After Typhoon Haiyan
News of Hagupit's approach comes as the Philippines continues to recover from 2013's devastating typhoon that affected more than 14 million people and nearly 6 million children. UNICEF, which has worked in the Philippines since 1948, was able to provide essential assistance and services to affected families and children in water and sanitation, nutrition, health, education and child protection in the aftermath of that storm.
The Philippines is highly exposed to natural hazards because it lies along the Pacific Typhoon Belt and is within the Pacific Ring of Fire. Disaster Risk Reduction (DDR) strategies to make the most vulnerable communities less susceptible to natural disasters have been a key focus in UNICEF's efforts to assist the Filipino people as they rebuild. As Typhoon Hagupit draws near, our concerns, as always, are for the safety and welfare of children and families in the Philippines.
HELP CHILDREN IN THE PHILIPPINES









More on this issue:

Our Mission



Child Survival
Child Protection & Development
Where UNICEF Works
U.S. Fund Initiatives








Related stories:


  

 Homes and Hugs for West Africa's Ebola Orphans 


 Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Hits the Philippines 


 UNICEF’s Top Priority is Protecting Children as Typhoon Hagupit Predicted to Hit the Philippines 
 
















our missionEmergency Relief
Ebola
Iraq
Syria
Saving Lives
Building Futures
Education
Where UNICEF Works
U.S. Fund Initiatives

our supportersDonors
Volunteers
Organizations
Regional Communities
Celebrities
User Events

about usFinances
Contact Us
People
Offices





Holiday Gift Guide »
Stories of UNICEF in Action »
For the Press »



Donate



















(800) 367-5437 | 125 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10038.© 2014 U.S. Fund for UNICEF. All rights reserved.




FAQ
Contact
Site Map
Jobs









