Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Hits the Philippines | UNICEF USA
Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Hits the Philippines | UNICEF USA













UNICEF United States Fund


Menu



Donate
How to Helpshop
Fundraise
advocate
Sign Up
holiday gifts
give monthly
tribute gifts
volunteer




sign inregister



our missionSaving LivesEbola
Water
Nutrition
Immunization
HIV/AIDS
Malaria

Building FuturesEducation
Trafficking
Violence
Disabilities

Emergency ReliefConflict
Earthquakes
Food Crises
Floods
Hurricanes
Tsunamis

Where UNICEF WorksIraq
Syria
Central African Republic
South Sudan
Philippines

U.S. Fund InitiativesTrick-or-Treat for UNICEF
UNICEF Tap Project
Eliminate Project
End Trafficking
U.S. Volunteering
U.S. Advocacy
TeachUNICEF


our supportersDonorsEnd of Year Giving
Monthly Donors
Next Generation
Planned Giving Donors
Audrey Hepburn Society

VolunteersOnline Activists
Fundraisers
College Clubs
High School Clubs
Marathon Runners
Teachers

OrganizationsBusinesses
Foundations
Faith-based Groups
Civil Society Partners

Regional CommunitiesMidwest
New England
New York
Northwest
Southeast
Southern California
Southwest

CelebritiesUNICEF Ambassadors
Athletes, Teams & Sports Leagues


about usPeopleBoard of Directors
Senior Management
Careers

OfficesNew York (Headquarters)
Atlanta
Boston
Chicago
Dallas
Houston
Los Angeles
San Francisco
Washington, D.C.

Finances91% of Every $1 Spent Helps Kids
Charity Navigator: Highest Rating
Better Business Bureau Accredited
Download 2013 Annual Report [PDF]

Contact UsFrequently Asked Questions
Email
Facebook
Twitter
(800) 367-5437






Search form

Search 


















IMG_5498.JPG

 












Emergency Relief 




Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Hits the Philippines


December 6, 2014


By
    
  
  Michael Sandler
  
  

SubscribeRSS





The powerful typhoon enters the Philippines as a slow-moving, yet still dangerous storm. Children and families recovering from Typhoon Haiyan are impacted again. 400,000 children are estimated to be affected. UNICEF mobilizes relief for hard-hit areas.













Updated December 8, 2014
Typhoon Hagupit (called Ruby in the Philippines) made landfall Saturday in Eastern Samar province as a category 3 storm, bringing heavy rain and powerful winds, knocking down trees and cutting power to thousands of people. More than 30 million Filipinos live in areas that may experience winds of 120 km/h or higher, according to the Global Disaster Alert and Coordination System.
While downgraded from "Super Typhoon" status, the huge storm still has the potential to cause significant damage and loss of life as it tracks across the country. The typhoon's slow pace brings with it increased risk of heavy rainfall, deadly flooding and landslides. According to the latest estimates, more than a million people are affected, including over 400,000 children.

Typhoon Hagupit is expected to take several days to cross the central Philippines. Image courtesy of the U.S. Navy's Joint Typhoon Warning Center.













More Than Half a Million People Evacuated
More than 500,000 people in coastal areas, and perhaps as many as 1 million, fled their homes in advance of the storm. In Tacloban City, site of catastrophic damage by Typhoon Haiyan in 2013, families and children looked for higher ground and safety in evacuation centers like the one set up in Kapangian Elementary School, shown in the photos below, which is sheltering more than 1,000 people.

Children sleep on mats at the Kapangian evacuation site. ©UNICEF Philippines/2014/CBacareza
 

11-month-old Mark Anthony and his mother are among the at least 1,000 Tacloban residents taking shelter at the Kapangian center. ©UNICEF Philippines/2014/Gay Samson
 
Tacloban residents also found shelter in the Astrodome, shown in this photo from the UNICEF Philippines Twitter feed.
Tacloban:Children & families take refuge in Astrodome as Super Typhoon #Hagupit #RubyPH makes landfall in E. Visayas pic.twitter.com/kjNwODD0Ft
— UNICEF Philippines (@unicefphils) December 6, 2014For UNICEF's 54-member team in Tacloban, the greatest worry was that families and children in this city, so badly affected by Haiyan last year, would suffer greatly again. Thankfully, due to extensive pre-storm preparation, lessons learned from the massive 2013 typhoon and Hagupit's ultimate path, this appears not to be the case:
Read: Families in Tacloban have a lucky escape.
Read: Typhoon Hagupit: sunny in Tacloban, stormy in Manila.










 
Mobilizing Relief for Families and Children
While the full extent of Hagupit's impact is not yet clear, UNICEF is dispatching supplies to the Eastern Samar municipalities known to be hardest hit. UNICEF is fully prepared to assist children and families as the typhoon moves across the central Philippines.
The country office is working closely with both the government and other agencies to assure that emergency efforts are coordinated and to maximize coverage in the delivery of all necessary aid. Tents; generators; and food, health care, water treatment and medical supplies were prepositioned in Tacloban, Manila and Cotabato in advance of the storm's arrival.
HELP NOW









More on this issue:

Our Mission



Child Survival
Child Protection & Development
Where UNICEF Works
U.S. Fund Initiatives








Related stories:


  

 Homes and Hugs for West Africa's Ebola Orphans 


 UNICEF’s Top Priority is Protecting Children as Typhoon Hagupit Predicted to Hit the Philippines 


 Philippines Typhoon 2014 - Hagupit (Ruby) 
 
















our missionEmergency Relief
Ebola
Iraq
Syria
Saving Lives
Building Futures
Education
Where UNICEF Works
U.S. Fund Initiatives

our supportersDonors
Volunteers
Organizations
Regional Communities
Celebrities
User Events

about usFinances
Contact Us
People
Offices





Holiday Gift Guide »
Stories of UNICEF in Action »
For the Press »



Donate



















(800) 367-5437 | 125 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10038.© 2014 U.S. Fund for UNICEF. All rights reserved.




FAQ
Contact
Site Map
Jobs









