Philippines | Met Office News Blog
Philippines | Met Office News Blog








Met Office News Blog



Official blog of the Met Office news team







Home
News
In the Media
Images
Diary
About





Typhoon Hagupit makes landfall in Philippines

7
12
2014


Typhoon Hagupit has made landfall in the eastern Philippines, on a very similar track to the one forecast on Friday. Hagupit (known as Ruby locally in the Philippines) made landfall in the central/east part of the island of Samar, at around 9pm UK time on Saturday 6 December.
Winds have decreased but it remains a very strong tropical cyclone with steady speeds estimated to be around 115mph and gusts peaking around 144mph when it made landfall. The storm is expected to continue to gradually weaken as it continues to track westwards across the Philippines over the next couple of days.
Satellite animation of Typhoon Hagupit 4 December to 7 December 2014
Rainfall on island of Samar has been between 300 and 400mm in the last 24 hours – Borongan has seen 396mm and Catbalogan 360mm. It is expected that the heavy rain will continue to give the greatest impacts as the typhoon moves slowly west over the next few days, bringing the potential to cause give widespread flash flooding and landslides.
The latest forecasts of the track of the typhoon continue to show it moving over the north of the Sibuyan Sea to Masbate/SE Luzon passing to the south of Manila on Monday. Hagupit is expected to have weakened to a Tropical Storm over the South China Sea during Tuesday 9th December (UK time).
The latest forecast of the typhoons path produced by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA)
Met Office scientists continue to work closely with counterparts at the Philippines weather service PAGASA. We are providing the latest information on computer model predictions helping PAGASA to ensure the citizens of Philippines can take the precautions necessary to protect themselves and their property where possible. We have also been providing information to Government departments such as FCO and DFID on the likely impacts of Typhoon Hagupit.
Official warnings of west Pacific tropical storms are produced by the Japan Meteorological Agency. The Met Office routinely supplies predictions of cyclone tracks from its global forecast model to regional meteorological centres worldwide, which are used along with guidance from other models in the production of forecasts and guidance.
Met Office StormTracker provides a mapped picture of tropical cyclones around the globe with access to track history and six-day forecast tracks for current tropical cyclones from the Met Office global forecast model and latest observed cloud cover and sea surface temperature. We also provide updates on current tropical storms via @metofficestorms on Twitter.
Share this:EmailPrintStumbleUponRedditFacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInLike this:Like Loading... 

Comments : Leave a Comment »

Tags: flash flooding, Haiyan, heavy rain, JMA, landslides, PAGASA, Philippines, Storm surge, Typhoo Haiyan, Typhoon Hagupit, Typhoon Ruby

Categories : Met Office News



Typhoon Hagupit still on course for the Philippines

5
12
2014


In yesterday’s blog we reported on the formation of Typhoon Hagupit and its potential threat to the Philippines. At that time, winds averaged over one minute were estimated to be near 180 mph. During the last 24 hours Hagupit has weakened slightly, but winds are still estimated to be above 140 mph and the typhoon still shows an impressive structure as seen in the latest satellite image.
Typhoon Hagupit seen on 5 December 2014Satellite image courtesy of Naval Research Laboratory
Forecasting the track of Typhoon Hagupit has been very problematic. Three possible scenarios were described in yesterday’s blog. One of these – that Hagupit would turn north and not make landfall – is considered highly unlikely now. It seems likely that Typhoon Hagupit will make landfall on the coast of the Philippine island of Samar. However, some uncertainties still remain.
One possible scenario is that landfall occurs during Saturday and Hagupit takes a fast and westward track across the Philippines. This is likely to result in structural damage due to strong winds and a storm surge of a few metres along the coast of Samar Island.
An alternative scenario is that Hagupit slows its forward motion as it approaches the Philippines and makes a slight northwards turn. Landfall will still occur, but not until Sunday. The effects of strong winds and several hundred millimetres of rain will be felt in a broad swath including areas as far north as Manila and central Luzon. The heavy rain could last for days and would have the potential to cause significant flooding and landslides.
Below is the latest projection of the typhoon produced by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA):
The latest projection of the typhoon produced by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA)
As reported yesterday, Met Office scientists have been working closely with counterparts at the Philippines weather service PAGASA. We are providing the latest information on computer model predictions and are discussing the range of possibilities, highlighting which of the possible forecast outcomes is the most likely; this is helping PAGASA to manage their risks. We have also been providing information to Government departments such as FCO and DFID on the likely impacts of Typhoon Hagupit.
Official warnings of west Pacific tropical storms are produced by the Japan Meteorological Agency. The Met Office routinely supplies predictions of cyclone tracks from its global forecast model to regional meteorological centres worldwide, which are used along with guidance from other models in the production of forecasts and guidance.
Met Office StormTracker provides a mapped picture of tropical cyclones around the globe with access to track history and six-day forecast tracks for current tropical cyclones from the Met Office global forecast model and latest observed cloud cover and sea surface temperature. We also provide updates on current tropical storms via @metofficestorms on Twitter.
Share this:EmailPrintStumbleUponRedditFacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInLike this:Like Loading... 

Comments : Leave a Comment »

Tags: flooding, Hagupit, Japan Meteorological Agency, landslides, Met Office Storm Tracker, PAGASA, Philippines, Tacloban, Typhoons

Categories : Met Office News



Typhoon Hagupit threatens the Philippines

4
12
2014


The typhoon season in the western North Pacific usually peaks in September and October. However, late season typhoons are not rare and this year Typhoon Hagupit has formed in December and poses a threat to the Philippines.
Hagupit developed in the open waters of the western Pacific becoming a tropical storm on 1 December. As it strengthened into a typhoon, it passed south of the Yap Islands and north of the island of Palau. In the last day, it has intensified rapidly and Typhoon Hagupit now has winds averaged over one minute of near 180 mph.
Typhoon Hagupit seen on 4 December 2014Image courtesy of Naval Research Laboratory
With the effects of Typhoon Haiyan in November 2013 still fresh in the memory there is obvious concern of a possible repeat as Hagupit moves towards the Philippines. However, unlike for Haiyan, there is much more uncertainty as to the precise track and intensity of the typhoon in the coming few days.
One possible scenario is that Hagupit continues moving westwards and makes landfall on Saturday as a strong typhoon in a similar location to Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. Another scenario suggests that Hagupit will slow and make a slight turn north, but still makes landfall over the Central Philippines on Sunday. Yet another scenario predicts a marked turn northwards with the eye of the typhoon staying offshore altogether.
At this stage, the latter scenario seems the least likely outcome. Thus landfall somewhere over the Central Philippines seems likely to happen at some stage during the weekend. Below is the projected track of the storm from the Japan Meteorological Agency.
Forecast track of Typhoon Hagupit from the Japan Meteorological Agency
As ever with tropical cyclones, there are multiple hazards associated with landfall. With winds expected to remain well above 100 mph for the time being, there is the potential for significant structural damage if Hagupit makes landfall. Storm surge was a major hazard associated with Typhoon Haiyan and depending on the precise track of the storm could be again with Typhoon Hagupit. This would threaten coastal communities with flooding to the depth of several metres. One additional hazard which needs to be considered is heavy rain. If Hagupit reduces its speed of motion it could take a long time to cross the Philippines which would increase the threat from heavy rain, flooding and landslides.
In the last couple of years the Met Office has been working with the Philippines weather service PAGASA to help improve its weather forecasting capabilities with a particular emphasis on tropical cyclones, which are a regular threat to the country. In the last few days, our meteorologists have been providing advice on the latest predictions of the track and intensity and likely impacts of Typhoon Hagupit to counterparts in PAGASA.
Official warnings of west Pacific tropical storms are produced by the Japan Meteorological Agency. The Met Office routinely supplies predictions of cyclone tracks from its global forecast model to regional meteorological centres worldwide, which are used along with guidance from other models in the production of forecasts and guidance.
Met Office StormTracker provides a mapped picture of tropical cyclones around the globe with access to track history and six-day forecast tracks for current tropical cyclones from the Met Office global forecast model and latest observed cloud cover and sea surface temperature. We also provide updates on current tropical storms via @metofficestorms on Twitter.
Share this:EmailPrintStumbleUponRedditFacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInLike this:Like Loading... 

Comments : Leave a Comment »

Tags: flooding, Hagupit, Haiyan, Japan Meteorological Agency, Met Office Storm Tracker, pacific, PAGASA, Philippines, Storm surges, Typhoon

Categories : Met Office News



Severe Tropical Storm Rammasun makes landfall in the Philippines

15
07
2014


A severe tropical storm is bringing damaging winds and very high rainfall totals to the Philippines over the coming days as it heads over the island chain.
Severe Tropical Storm Rammasun (also known locally as Typhoon Glenda) has already made landfall over the largest island, Luzon, and is expected to track westward towards the capital, Manila.
It has winds of about 90 mph and gusts of up to 115 mph are forecast, but these could ease slightly as the storm moves inland.
Rammasun will also bring heavy rainfall, with up to 400mm of rain possible over the next two to three days – that’s about a third of the UK’s average rainfall for a whole year.
Legazpi in the south eastern part of Luzon had already seen 181mm of rain in just six hours early on Tuesday – this is more than twice as much as the UK would expect in the whole month of July.
Satellite image of Rammasun from earlier today. Courtesy of the Naval Research Laboratory.
The rainfall could cause flooding and landslides, with the largest impact possibly reserved to the populous Manila itself (Greater Metro Manila Area).
A storm surge of up to 1 to 1.5 metres is also expected, coinciding with waves of 3 to 5 metres and spring tides. This could also add to the risk of coastal flooding as the storm passes through.
This could be the strongest tropical storm to affect the Philippines since Milenyo (also known as Typhoon Xangsane) hit the area in 2006.
The Met Office has been working in partnership with PAGASA, the Filipino national forecaster, to provide high resolution forecast modeling for the region. This can help to provide more detailed guidance and warnings on the potential impacts of Rammasun, helping the region prepare so disruption can be minimised.
There are currently no other tropical storms in either the Pacific or the North Atlantic.
Official warnings of west Pacific tropical storms are produced by the Japanese Meteorological Agency (JMA).
The Met Office routinely supplies predictions of cyclone tracks from its global forecast model to regional meteorological centres worldwide, which are used along with guidance from other models in the production of forecasts and guidance.
Met Office StormTracker provides a mapped picture of tropical cyclones around the globe with access to track history and six-day forecast tracks for current tropical cyclones from the Met Office global forecast model and latest observed cloud cover and sea surface temperature.
We also provide updates on current tropical storms via @metofficestorms on Twitter.
Share this:EmailPrintStumbleUponRedditFacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInLike this:Like Loading... 

Comments : 2 Comments »

Tags: cyclone, glenda, JMA, Manila, pacific, Philippines, rammasun, tropical, Typhoon

Categories : Met Office News



Typhoon Haiyan makes landfall over the Philippines

8
11
2013


As predicted Typhoon Haiyan made landfall late yesterday evening (UK time) over the central Philippines.
Typhoon Haiyan will have caused catastrophic damage near the centre of its track through the Philippine islands of Samar, Leyte and Panay. In addition to the strong winds, the storm surge and heavy rain will also have caused major impacts in these regions. The typhoon is now moving out into the South China Sea. Over the next couple of days it is likely to lose some strength before making another landfall in northern parts of Vietnam on Sunday, although is still expected to be a typhoon.
Typhoon Haiyan at 2230 UTC on 07 November 2013 as it made landfall. Image from NOAA.
At the time of landfall the estimated central pressure of the typhoon was 895 mb and sustained winds averaged over one minute estimated at 195 mph with higher gusts. These estimates are based on well attested satellite techniques, but without observations exactly in the path of the eye of the typhoon it is impossible to confirm their accuracy. However, this is likely to make Haiyan one of the most intense tropical cyclones to make landfall in history.
Forecast track of Typhoon Haiyan from the Japan Meteorological Agency.
In 1969 Hurricane Camille made landfall over the southern USA with sustained winds near 190 mph and in 1935 a hurricane which passed over the Florida Keys had an observed central pressure of 892 mb.
In terms of all time records, Typhoon Tip in 1979 holds the record for the lowest pressure in a tropical cyclone measured at 870 mb and the strongest wind gust ever recorded in a tropical cyclone was 253 mph in Cyclone Olivia off the north-west coast of Australia in 1996. As things stand these records seem likely to remain for the time being.
Regional warnings for Typhoon Haiyan are produced by the Japanese Meteological Agency (JMA) and the Philippine Atmospheric Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA). The Met Office routinely supplies predictions of typhoon tracks from its global forecast model to regional meteorological centres worldwide, which are used along with guidance from other models in the production of forecasts and guidance. Met Office model data and guidance is also used by Project NOAH in part for warning the government and the Filipino population.
Met Office StormTracker provides a mapped picture of tropical cyclones around the globe with access to track history and six-day forecast tracks for current tropical cyclones from the Met Office Unified Model and latest observed cloud cover and sea surface temperature. We also provide updates on current tropical storms via @metofficestorms on Twitter.
Share this:EmailPrintStumbleUponRedditFacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInLike this:Like Loading... 

Comments : 6 Comments »

Tags: flooding, heavy rain, landslides, Met Office, NOAA, Philippines, Storm, storm tracker, Typhoon Bopha, Typhoon Haiyan, wind

Categories : Met Office in the Media, Met Office News



Typhoon Haiyan heading for the Philippines

6
11
2013


Typhoon Haiyan is set to make landfall over the central Philippines on Friday bringing extremely strong winds and heavy rain to the region.
Typhoon Haiyan approaching the Philippines 6 November 2013. Image from US Naval Research Laboratory.
Typhoon Haiyan is the 11th typhoon to form in the west Pacific during an exceptionally active period in the last seven weeks. China, the Philippines, Vietnam, Japan and South Korea have all been struck by Haiyan’s predecessors. Furthermore, Cyclone Phailin, which developed in the Bay of Bengal, struck north-eastern India in October bringing damaging winds and storm surge. Accurate forecasts, combined with well executed warning and evacuation procedures, meant that the loss of life was relatively low.
It is almost a year since the devastating Typhoon Bopha hit the southern Philippine island of Mindanao causing much destruction and the loss of over 1,000 lives. Haiyan is a similar strength to Typhoon Bopha with winds near 160 mph – equivalent to a category 5 hurricane. Heavy rain, storm surge and mudslides will be an additional hazard as the typhoon makes landfall over the Philippine islands of Samar and Leyte on Friday.
Forecast track of Typhoon Haiyan from the Japan Meteorological Agency
Regional warnings for Typhoon Haiyan are produced by the Japanese Meteological Agency (JMA) and the Philippine Atmospheric Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA). The Met Office routinely supplies predictions of typhoon tracks from its global forecast model to regional meteorological centres worldwide, which are used along with guidance from other models in the production of forecasts and guidance.
Met Office StormTracker provides a mapped picture of tropical cyclones around the globe with access to track history and six-day forecast tracks for current tropical cyclones from the Met Office Unified Model and latest observed cloud cover and sea surface temperature. We also provide updates on current tropical storms via @metofficestorms on Twitter.
 
Share this:EmailPrintStumbleUponRedditFacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInLike this:Like Loading... 

Comments : Leave a Comment »

Tags: Bay of Bengal, hurricane, Met Office, Mindanao, Philippine Atmospheric Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration, Philippines, season, Storm surge, storm warnings, tropical cyclone, Typhoon Bopha, Typhoon Haiyan

Categories : Met Office News













About this blog This is the official blog of the Met Office news team, intended to provide journalists and bloggers with the latest weather, climate science and business news and information from the Met Office. 
The blog will post latest news releases and related content, news diary and information supporting news stories already in the media. 

Awards


Categories 
Met Office Diary

Met Office Images

Met Office in the Media

Met Office News


Archives 
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010

Search this site




 Met Office NewsTwo Atlantic storms to bring strong winds to northern UK 6 January, 20152014 confirmed as UK's warmest year on record 5 January, 2015Getting ready for winter - whatever the weather 22 October, 2014See Also...

@metofficestorms
Central Pacific Hurricane Center
Facebook
Flickr
Google+
Japanese Meteorological Agency
Met Office
Met Office Media Centre
Met Office StormTracker
National Hurricane Center
Twitter
Twitter News
YouTube


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 6,351 other followers







 


Posts by RSS RSS - Posts
Met Office on FacebookMet Office on Twitter

				@sleepingat10 Some stronger winds around 40 - 48mph is all that's expected. Here's the latest warning details:  bit.ly/1Do9udH ^JS      				35 minutes ago


				@Ryanfra70053595 Sorry for the delay, would you mind emailing in to: enquiries@metoffice.gov.uk so we can answer more fully? ^JS      				5 hours ago


				@gordyb25 Expected to be cloudy with sunny intervals, some possible hail around 6am, rain around 12pm expected.  bit.ly/1zUQxsG ^JS      				5 hours ago


				@buble123 Strongest will late Thursday into Friday morning. Here's the latest:  bit.ly/1xFTRed ^JS      				6 hours ago


				@GhaniRaks No, max speed of around 31mph. ^JS      				6 hours ago

2012
2013
Atlantic
BBC
British Geological Survey
Christmas
climate
climate change
climate science
cold
Daily Express
Daily Mail
december
Drought
dry
England
environment
Environment Agency
flood
flooding
forecast
frost
gales
global warming
heatwave
heavy rain
hurricane
ice
iPhone
Jet stream
july
june
Lightning
London
Met Office
MetOffice
Met Office Hadley Centre
minimum temperatures
NASA
National Hurricane Center
National Severe Weather Warning Service
Northern Ireland
Pollen
rain
rainfall
record
royal wedding
Scotland
severe weather
snow
snowfall
spring
statistics
Storm
storms
summer
Sun
sunshine
temperature
tropical cyclone
tropical storm
Twitter
Typhoon
UK
Wales
warm
weather
weather forecast
weather forecasting
wet
wettest
White Christmas
wind
Winter
YouTubeTop PostsThe Met Office's outlook for the start of winter 2015
Top ten coldest recorded temperatures in the UK
When does Autumn start? Defining seasons
What is ‘feels like’ temperature?
The Met Office’s outlook for UK winter
Met Office on Flickr 






 More Photos








 







Blog at WordPress.com. The Freshy Theme.			

 
 








Follow

Follow “Met Office News Blog”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 6,351 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com





Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







%d bloggers like this:









