Typhoon Hagupit Makes Landfall in Philippines as 1 Million Flee - NBC News
Typhoon Hagupit Makes Landfall in Philippines as 1 Million Flee - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
Boa Constrictor Slithers Out of Clogged San Diego Toilet
FBI Looking Into Explosion Near NAACP Office
Confusion as French Hunt Magazine Attack Suspects
Paris Reels After Gunmen Kill 12 in Attack on Magazine







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search




















NASA via AFP - Getty Images



                                        This Video Player Requires JavaScript

                                        It has come to our attention that the browser you are using is either not running
                                        javascript or out of date. Please enable javascript and/or update your browser if
                                        possible.




                            32 days
                            



News
  
In this image obtained from NASA, Typhoon Hagupit hits the Philippines on Dec. 6.
 


Typhoon Hagupit Makes Landfall in Philippines as 1 Million Flee



















By Alastair Jamieson

Typhoon Hagupit downed trees and knocked out power as it swept across the Philippines, lashing a region that was still recovering from a typhoon last year that killed thousands.Sustained winds dropped to 100 mph with gusts of up to 121 mph, according to the weather bureau, PAGASA, down from the 130 mph gusts that were felt as the massive storm made landfall in Eastern Samar, which was battered by last year's storm, Typhoon Haiyan.The eye of Hagupit hit the town of Dolores in Eastern Samar around 9:15 p.m. local time (8:15 a.m. ET), the bureau said, and it was moving across the island before an expected second landfall on the island of Masbate. The vast and fickle storm system, which is expected to hover over the island nation for the next few days.There were widespread power outages in Eastern Samar and nearby Leyte province. "I can't penetrate the areas, I can't go north or south because of fallen trees and power lines. Many areas are flooded," Ben Evardone, congressman for Eastern Samar, told Reuters from his base in the provincial capital Borongan.While the storm weakened to a category 3 level — below "super typhoon" status — residents were still bracing for major flooding, landslides and debris-choked roadways."There are many trees that have toppled, some of them on the highway," police Senior Inspector Alex Robin told The Associated Press by phone from Dolores. "We are totally in the dark here. The only light comes from flashlights."Hagupit — Filipino for "smash" or "lash" — hammered Eastern Samar, part of a region that was devastated by Haiyan's tsunami-like storm surges. Haiyan left more than 7,300 people dead or missing, and displaced 4 million."The rain is very heavy and the wind is now really bad," Elsa Thomasma told NBC News from her home in the eastern city of Tacloban, which was ravaged by Haiyan. The 28-year-old, originally from Michigan but now working in the region, said it was not yet possible to assess the extent of any damage. "We can't see anything at all," she added.Disaster relief group Feed the Children said it was expecting as many as 30,000 people would need assistance in the immediate aftermath of the storm, and expected Leyte and Samar to be among the hardest-hit areas."This is the same location where families were displaced last year" after Haiyan, the organization's Philippines director, Esperanza Abellana, told NBC News. "It could be worse than that, but we'll need about 24 hours before we can make a complete assessment. The power is down, the internet is not very good."Acairoe Fourth said his family in the Leyte province, where Tacloban is located, has decided to ride out the storm in their concrete home. His father was reinforcing the roof and windows, Fourth said."There is no good evacuation center in some rural areas," he told NBC News, "only in towns and cities."Army troops deployed to supermarkets and major roads in provinces in the typhoon's path to prevent looting and chaos and clear debris, all of which slowed the government's response last year, said Gen. Gregorio Pio Catapang, head of the Philippines' 120,000-strong military."We're on red alert, so the entire armed forces is being mobilized for this typhoon," Catapang said at a news conference.Those far away from the storm were left to wonder about loved ones closer to the typhoon. Mike Sculley in the city of Angeles, northwest of Manila, said his wife lost cell phone contact with her mother, who was only able to return to Leyte in January after last year's typhoon destroyed her home there. "Hopes are, not only is everyone safe, but we hope their house survived this storm," he said in an e-mail to NBC News. "Last year there was nothing left of the house. It was blown away."The U.N. Global Disaster Alert System said almost 32 million people — a third of the country's population — were likely to be affected in some way by cyclone-force winds.Hagupit, known locally as Ruby, was expected to move slowly across a vast area and dump intense rainfall of up to three-quarters of an inch per hour.Richard Gordon, chairman of the Philippine Red Cross, which is mobilizing an international rescue plan in case of disaster, said it alone had moved more than 100,000 people from coastal areas — many of whom were still living in tents while recovery work continued from Haiyan."Evacuations have been going smoothly in the central Philippines, as well as in the northern part of the Philippines," CCTV correspondent Barnaby Lo told The Weather Channel on Saturday. "No one's taking any chances. People here have learned their lesson."FRANCIS R. MALASIG / EPAFilipino residents stand in front of strong waves at a coastal village in Borongan city, Samar island, Philippines, on Dec. 6. Typhoon Hagupit made landfall in the eastern Philippines, a senior weather official said.NBC News' Phil Helsel and Arata Yamamoto contributed. Material from Reuters and The Associated Press was used in this report.
First published December 6 2014, 6:32 AM



 

 

 

 




Alastair Jamieson


 

 

 

 

 


                                            Alastair Jamieson is a London-based reporter, editor and homepage producer for NBC News. He joined NBCNews.com in 2011 after more than a decade working as a reporter and news editor for British newspapers including The Sunday Telegraph and Daily Telegraph in London and The Scotsman in Edinburgh.
                                        
... Expand Bio












About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

