Typhoon Hagupit Slams Into Philippines 
Typhoon Hagupit Slams Into Philippines



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Typhoon Hagupit Slams Into Philippines

All of the country's 120,000 troops are put on "red alert" as gusts of up to 130mph hit the east coast.


23:05, UK, 
Saturday 06
December 2014















Play video "Typhoon Hagupit Reaches Philippines"










Video:
Typhoon Hagupit Reaches Philippines











Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






A powerful typhoon has slammed into eastern Philippines, where 650,000 people have fled to safety in one of the largest peacetime evacuations in the nation's history.

Gusts of 130mph have been recorded alongside sustained winds of 109mph.
The typhoon made landfall on Saturday night in central Eastern Samar province - but the centre of the storm remains several hours away.
The winds, as well as pounding rain, has knocked out power lines and toppled trees in the town of Dolores.




The military is on full alert as the centre of the storm sweeps in

Senior Inspector Alex Robin said: "We are totally in the dark here. The only light comes from flashlights."
The Philippines' 120,000-strong military is on alert to respond to a possible catastrophe.

1/11










Gallery: Philippines Braces For Huge Typhoon
People take shelter inside a church after evacuating their homes due to super-typhoon Hagupit in Tacloban city, central Philippines











































General Gregorio Pio Catapang said: "We're on red alert, so the entire armed forces is being mobilised for this typhoon."
Meanwhile, Interior Secretary Mar Roxas tried to calm anxious families, and urged for as much preventative action to be taken as possible. The winds are strong enough to trigger deadly storm surges and landslides.
In a televised address, he said: "This is it. I know you are tired, not enough sleep, not enough food, too much coffee. But this is our last push. Every person we can save now is one less we have to look for after the typhoon passes."
Troops have been deployed to supermarkets and major roads to prevent looting and clear debris.
The UN says the evacuation is one of the largest in Philippine history.
Nearly 100 domestic flights have been cancelled and inter-island ferry services suspended, leaving thousands of people stranded.

1/24










Gallery: Before And After Images
View of the entrance to San Roque Elementary School in Leyte, Philippines


















































































The region is still haunted by the destruction wrought by Typhoon Haiyan, which left 7,300 people dead or missing last November.
Eastern Samar province representative Ben Evardone said: "Everybody is in fear because of what happened during Haiyan. We can already feel the wrath of the typhoon. Everybody is praying."
Forecasters had been predicting that the typhoon would follow a more southern route, and have warned that its path is unpredictable.
Blanche Gobenciong, a regional disaster-response director, said: "We have a zero-casualty target. Just one loss of life will really sadden us all and make us wonder what went wrong."
More follows...





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Breaking News: Paris Gun Attack Suspect Surrenders, Reports









Global Vigils To Mourn Paris Terror Attack Dead









Breaking News: Called For By Name: Cartoonists Identified









Breaking News: Officer Shot In Head As He Pleads For Life









Thursday's National Newspaper Front Pages












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









