UNICEF’s Top Priority is Protecting Children as Typhoon Hagupit Predicted to Hit the Philippines | UNICEF USA
UNICEF’s Top Priority is Protecting Children as Typhoon Hagupit Predicted to Hit the Philippines | UNICEF USA













UNICEF United States Fund


Menu



Donate
How to Helpshop
Fundraise
advocate
Sign Up
holiday gifts
give monthly
tribute gifts
volunteer




sign inregister



our missionSaving LivesEbola
Water
Nutrition
Immunization
HIV/AIDS
Malaria

Building FuturesEducation
Trafficking
Violence
Disabilities

Emergency ReliefConflict
Earthquakes
Food Crises
Floods
Hurricanes
Tsunamis

Where UNICEF WorksIraq
Syria
Central African Republic
South Sudan
Philippines

U.S. Fund InitiativesTrick-or-Treat for UNICEF
UNICEF Tap Project
Eliminate Project
End Trafficking
U.S. Volunteering
U.S. Advocacy
TeachUNICEF


our supportersDonorsEnd of Year Giving
Monthly Donors
Next Generation
Planned Giving Donors
Audrey Hepburn Society

VolunteersOnline Activists
Fundraisers
College Clubs
High School Clubs
Marathon Runners
Teachers

OrganizationsBusinesses
Foundations
Faith-based Groups
Civil Society Partners

Regional CommunitiesMidwest
New England
New York
Northwest
Southeast
Southern California
Southwest

CelebritiesUNICEF Ambassadors
Athletes, Teams & Sports Leagues


about usPeopleBoard of Directors
Senior Management
Careers

OfficesNew York (Headquarters)
Atlanta
Boston
Chicago
Dallas
Houston
Los Angeles
San Francisco
Washington, D.C.

Finances91% of Every $1 Spent Helps Kids
Charity Navigator: Highest Rating
Better Business Bureau Accredited
Download 2013 Annual Report [PDF]

Contact UsFrequently Asked Questions
Email
Facebook
Twitter
(800) 367-5437






Search form

Search 

























For the Press 




UNICEF’s Top Priority is Protecting Children as Typhoon Hagupit Predicted to Hit the Philippines


December 5, 2014


SubscribeRSS





UNICEF is fully prepared to assist children and families as Super Typhoon Hagupit moves toward the northern part of Eastern Visayas, the Philippines












NEW YORK (December 5, 2014) – UNICEF is fully prepared to assist children and families as Super Typhoon Hagupit moves toward the northern part of Eastern Visayas, the Philippines. Gaining strength and predicted to make landfall in the next few days, Super Typhoon Hagupit (local name Ruby) comes just 13 months after Super Typhoon Haiyan ravaged Tacloban and other coastal communities in Eastern Visayas.
UNICEF is working closely with the local government and other partners in Tacloban on preparedness measures. Pre-positioned essential supplies are also ready to be deployed from UNICEF’s global warehouse in Copenhagen and local warehouses in Manila, Leyte and Cotabato.
These emergency supplies include water kits, hygiene kits, water purification units, tents for temporary schools and child friendly spaces, student and teacher materials, medical supplies, therapeutic food to combat malnutrition, oral rehydration salts, tarps and generators powerful enough for at least 10,000 families.
“UNICEF is working with the national and local government and partners to safeguard children and families, and ensure that they are prepared and supported. We are closely monitoring the situation and teams are in place in Tacloban City ready to respond to this new emergency,” said Lotta Sylwander, UNICEF’s Representative in the Philippines.
“It is unfortunate that some of the communities recovering from last year’s massive disaster are faced again with yet another Super Typhoon. UNICEF will continue to be there by children and communities to assist them through this impending calamity.” 
In times of disasters, children face the risk of disease outbreaks, malnutrition, violence and disrupted education. UNICEF, alongside its partners, has been working to help strengthen the ability of local governments to respond to emergencies. UNICEF stands ready to provide support in the areas of water, sanitation, hygiene, health, nutrition, education and protection of children.
UNICEF began providing assistance to the Philippines in 1948. The country has long been affected by typhoons and other natural disasters, and over the years, UNICEF emergency teams have mounted large-scale responses.
About UNICEF
The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) works in more than 190 countries and territories to put children first. UNICEF has helped save more children’s lives than any other humanitarian organization, by providing health care and immunizations, clean water and sanitation, nutrition, education, emergency relief and more. The U.S. Fund for UNICEF supports UNICEF's work through fundraising, advocacy and education in the United States. Together, we are working toward the day when no children die from preventable causes and every child has a safe and healthy childhood. For more information, visit www.unicefusa.org.
For additional information, please contact:
Susannah Masur, U.S. Fund for UNICEF, 212.880.9146, smasur@unicefusa.org
 




















Related stories:


  

 Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Hits the Philippines 


 Philippines Typhoon 2014 - Hagupit (Ruby) 


 Paul G. Allen Backs Two New Initiatives In The Fight Against The Ebola Virus 
 
















our missionEmergency Relief
Ebola
Iraq
Syria
Saving Lives
Building Futures
Education
Where UNICEF Works
U.S. Fund Initiatives

our supportersDonors
Volunteers
Organizations
Regional Communities
Celebrities
User Events

about usFinances
Contact Us
People
Offices





Holiday Gift Guide »
Stories of UNICEF in Action »
For the Press »



Donate



















(800) 367-5437 | 125 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10038.© 2014 U.S. Fund for UNICEF. All rights reserved.




FAQ
Contact
Site Map
Jobs









