  Typhoon Recovery Gets a New Dawn in the Philippines - Indonesia Real Time - WSJ
  Typhoon Recovery Gets a New Dawn in the Philippines - Indonesia Real Time - WSJ













WSJ

WSJ
Facebook
Twitter

 
 


MarketWatch

MarketWatch



Barrons

Barrons





Product X

Product X









djx


rt


f


r&c


pe&vc


wsj


b






The Shops

The Shops



More


New Portfolio


Big Charts


Virtual Stock Exchange


WSJ Asia

WSJ India 

								  

WSJ China 

									  chinese edition


WSJ Japan 

									  japanese edition





WSJ Europe


WSJ Americas

en Español 

								  

em Português

								  




WSJ Radio


WSJ Wine









					SEARCH
				











		
			
			
			
				
					
						
							headline
						
						
							
							goldman
							
						
					
				
				
					
						
							Companies
						
						
							
							
								GOLD
							
							
								Ran
								gold Resources Ltd. ADS
							
							
								U.S.
							
							
						
					
				
			
			
				
					
						View All Search Results »
					
				
			
			
			
		
	




 

The Wall Street Journal





Welcome, 
Logout


My Account
My Journal
Help
Message Center ( new)






Log In
Register
Subscribe Now











U.S. Edition



                            WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:
                        




                                        U.S.
                                         




                                        Asia
                                         




                                                India
                                                 




                                                China  
 






                                        Europe
                                         




                                    	Americas
                                    



                                                en Español
                                                 




                                                em Português
                                                 











Login/Register to set your edition
                        		





Set my edition








Today's Paper

Video
Columns
Blogs
Topics
Journal Community




Register for FREE


Register for FREE


Thank you for registering.
We sent an email to: 
Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration


 


Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.

An account already exists for the email address entered.
Forgot your username or password?


This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.


The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username


The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.







First Name





Last Name




Email Address





Create a User Name




Create a Password





Confirm Password

  


Send me information about more WSJ features


Create a profile for me in the Journal Community



 

 

Why Register?
Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions

As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:

Setup and manage your portfolio
Personalize your own news page
Receive and manage newsletters


 
 
 
 
 

Log In

Log In



User Name



Password



Log in



Remember me
Forgot your password?


























Airline disasters
Quick Answers About Altitude, Weather in Shadow of AirAsia Crash


Airline disasters
Increased Oversight Forces Delays at Surabaya Airport
 
SportsEnvironment & HealthEconomy & BusinessPoliticsLifestyle & CulturePeople  Change Language:       English           Bahasa     Bahasa   
Hot Topics:
Property

Wealth

Singapore

Indonesia

Food Fridays

Myanmar

Corruption
 












                  SGTJul 3, 2014        

Southeast Asia 

          Typhoon Recovery Gets a New Dawn in the Philippines        






Article


Comments (1)





FeaturedPBSPPhilippinesProject New DawnTyphoon Haiyan 

















By  Josephine Cuneta 



Aerial views of damaged buildings in Bantayan island of northern Cebu, Philippines, on Nov. 10, 2013.
Office of the Mayor of Coron/European Pressphoto Agency


MANILA, The Philippines—Private businesses in the Philippines have boosted their efforts to help rebuild areas devastated last year by Typhoon Haiyan through a social investment portfolio and collective impact site that will draw investments from major companies in the Philippines and abroad.
Project New Dawn, launched last month by the social development organization Philippine Business for Social Progress, or PBSP, is expected to boost ongoing recovery and rehabilitation efforts in the areas hit hardest by the storm, which ripped through the central Philippines last November, killing more than 6,200 people and displacing millions.
It will focus on sectors such as health and education, building shelters and assisting micro entrepreneurs to start up small businesses in Northern Cebu. Its two main components are the Social Investment Portfolio, which lists packages of projects around the Visayas region in need of funding from investors, and the Collective Impact Site, which will help implement the project.Advertisement

More In Typhoon Haiyan

Video on Typhoon Haiyan: The Philippines One Year Later
After a Year, Typhoon-Ravaged Tacloban Still Awaits Aid
Asian Economies Underinvest in Climate Change Response, Oxfam
Philippine Churches to Get Songs of Support
Disaster Experts Crafting Plan to Mitigate Natural Disasters



The more than 250 member companies that are part of PBSP will spend the next 18 months raising funds, bidding out and implementing projects, and coordinating with local governments, said the organization’s executive director Rafael Lopa.
Mr. Lopa said he planned to pitch Project New Dawn to potential foreign donors at a conference on disaster prevention that he will attend in the United States later this month.
“This will be an encompassing campaign that tells a story of people getting together and how their support is changing a situation,” he said.
Currently, PBSP has put 80 million pesos ($1. 8 million) toward the programs under Project New Dawn in Northern Cebu, about half of its target, said Mr. Lopa.
The goal is to raise 160 million pesos ($3. 65 million) to help families in the affected areas restore their health centers, schools and learning facilities, plant new mangrove trees, and rebuild homes that were damaged by the typhoon.
Mangrove reforestation along the shorelines of coastal communities is one of the key components of the project. Mangroves provide important breeding grounds for various marine life and are considered an important way of reducing the impact of storm surges whipped up by typhoons.



Typhoon victims look out from their house that was damaged by Typhoon Haiyan in Bogo, Cebu in central Philippines on Nov. 17, 2013.
Reuters


PBSP and its members have been involved with relief and recovery efforts since just after the typhoon hit last November.
“After the typhoon last year, our network and partners immediately distributed relief goods to thousands of victims in Northern Cebu, Samar, Leyte, Iloilo and Panay,” said Mr. Lopa.
Now the project is extending its reach for the long-term.
Project New Dawn is a collective response to the long-term rehabilitation needs of the Visayas region,” Antonio Aboitiz, chair of PBSP’s Visayas executive committee, said at the project’s launch.
Already PBSP member-companies and other partners have made pledges to support the installation of potable water systems, repair and equip health stations, set up of corn seedling facilities, and support for various other programs under Project New Dawn.
__________________________________________________
Also popular on Southeast Asia Real Time:
Philippines Stages a Comeback on Unesco’s World Heritage List
4 Things Helping Color Indonesia’s Election Campaign
For the latest news and analysis, follow @WSJAsia 
 





FeaturedPBSPPhilippinesProject New DawnTyphoon Haiyan 



previousPicturing SE Asia: Imelda Marcos Celebrates Her Birthday; Hot Air Balloon Raises Education Awareness 

nextWar and Peace: Indonesian Candidates Do Battle for the Presidency 



Indonesia Real Time HOME PAGE 


 Add a Comment  Error message        Name   We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines. Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.           Comment         Comments (1 of 1) View all Comments »       11:18 am July 3, 2014  philippenis wrote:              I wonder what happened to the billions of donations to the government for the same cause. With the numbers we saw on the news versus the progress we see, it's obviously just a granule of monetary/expense aid has so far been visible. With the real amount left, I believe the private sector shouldn't necessarily be involved anymore, but since they are, it just means the relief operations hasn't been effective.
Meanwhile in the senate, the most corrupt and alleged scammers ate still in position.
Go figure.
     






previousPicturing SE Asia: Imelda Marcos Celebrates Her Birthday; Hot Air Balloon Raises Education Awareness 

nextWar and Peace: Indonesian Candidates Do Battle for the Presidency 



 


About Southeast Asia Real Time

RSS



Indonesia Real Time provides analysis and insight into the region, which includes Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos and Brunei. Contact the editors at SEAsia@wsj.com.



Indonesia Real Time on Twitter


 Indonesia Real Time on Facebook




  Featured   previous pause next   Indonesia Through the Eyes of 10 Instagrammers A few of the pictures and photographers that captured Indonesia last year.   Graphic: Why Do Black Boxes Matter? Indonesia located the tail of AirAsia Flight 8501 but has yet to find the black boxes that are stationed at the rear of the plane.    AirAsia Prepares Insurance Payments One Family at a Time AirAsia is offering family members of passengers on Flight QZ8501 monetary compensation following the Dec. 28 crash and said it was conferring with them individually to show its “good intention.”   Quick Answers About Altitude, Weather in Shadow of AirAsia Crash 10 quick answers to questions raised by the crash of AirAsia Flight QZ8501.   Increased Oversight Forces Delays at Surabaya Airport A new push by the government to scrutinize predeparture procedures in the wake of AirAsia’s crash last week caused delays of up to two hours for 20 flights here in the city where QZ8501 took off.  Most RecentArticlesComments
1.
Indonesia Through the Eyes of 10 Instagrammers


2.
Graphic: Why Do Black Boxes Matter?


3.
In Photos: Indonesia Locates Tail of AirAsia Plane


4.
AirAsia Prepares Insurance Payments One Family at a Time


5.
Quick Answers About Altitude, Weather in Shadow of AirAsia Crash


1.
rangstorm@ icloud.com

Thai Tea Firm Ichitan Injects a Buzz into Thailand’s Stock Market		
2 Comments



2.
JesterJames

What Happened to the Openness at AirAsia?		
3 Comments



3.
Siolag

Three AirAsia 8501 Passengers Were Working in Singapore		
1 Comment



4.
Siolag

Not Likely AirAsia Flight 8501 Exploded in Mid-Air		
1 Comment



5.
hah

Shariah Enforcer Swing a Mean Stick but Fears Retribution		
1 Comment


  









WSJ Web Slice
CONTENT
LINKS TO ACTUAL PAGE CONTAINING WEB SLICE FUNCTIONALITY.

15





Wall Street Journal
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
FourSquare
Google+
YouTube
Podcasts
RSS Feed
AppStore


Subscribe
/Login 


Back to Top«




Customer Service

Customer Center
New! Live Help

Contact Us
WSJ Weekend
Contact Directory
Corrections



Policy

Privacy Policy
 Cookie Policy
Data Policy
Copyright Policy
Subscriber Agreement& Terms of Use
Your Ad Choices



Advertise

Advertise
Place a Classified Ad
Sell Your Home
Sell Your Business
Commercial Real Estate Ads
Recruitment & Career Ads
Franchising
Advertise Locally



Tools & Features

Apps
Emails & Alerts

Graphics
Columns
Topics
Guides
Portfolio
Old Portfolio



More

Why Subscribe
Register for Free
Reprints

Content Partnerships
Conferences

Price & Volume
Keyword & Symbol
News Archive
Jobs at WSJ







Copyright ©2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.












Schließen
Subscribe Now















close

Email This







								Recipient's Email Address (Separate multiple address with commas)






								Your Email Address
							




								Message (Optional)






								Send me a copy
							






or Cancel












close

Thank You
Your email has been sent.









close

Error.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
			  	Please try again.
			  	





• Invalid email address.
• You can't enter more than 20 emails.
• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.
• Must enter an email address.
• You must enter the verification code below to send.
• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.






          
















