Hundreds feared dead as boat capsizes off Libya coast - Al Jazeera English


Hundreds feared dead as boat capsizes off Libya coast - Al Jazeera English 
 



















































  























al jazeera
menu
 



submit

 
Your account
          
NewsMore
Arts & Culture
Business & Economy
Environment
Health
Humanitarian crises
Media
Poverty & Development
Politics
Science & Technology
War & Conflict

All
Africa
Asia Pacific
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada

Human Rights
Sport
In Pictures
Infographics
Blogs
Weather
#FreeAJStaff
Digital Magazine
FeaturedDespite sanctions, Pakistan's 'terrorists' thriveThe Last Jews of Kolkata

ProgrammesMoreDocumentaries

Witness
101 East
People & Power
Al Jazeera World
Fault Lines
Lifelines
Viewfinder
Al Jazeera Correspondent
Africa Investigates
Special Series
Discussions

Inside Story
The Stream
Empire
Head to Head
Talk to Al Jazeera
Newsmagazine Shows

The Listening Post
earthrise
The CURE
Counting the Cost
TechKnow
reVIEW
FeaturedRebel ArchitectureMarco Polo

Opinion
Investigations
AboutMoreAl Jazeera English

About Us
Code of Ethics
Press Office
Awards
Connect

Contact Us
Mobile
Social
Channel Finder
Newsletter
Broadcast Schedule
Podcasts
Digital Magazine
Our Network

AJ America
AJ Arabic
AJ Balkans
AJ Turk
AJ Mubasher
AJ Documentary
AJ Center for Studies
AJ Training Center
FeaturedAJ+AJ Learning




 
Topics:
ISIL 
Space 
Mali 
Migrants 
US & Canada

 



  
Life on Hold
The struggle of Syrian refugees in LebanonWatch Now

A rare glimpse into Algerian wedding culture
A rare glimpse into Algerian wedding culture












    Humanitarian crisesHundreds feared dead as boat capsizes off Libya coast

UN refugee agency says around 50 rescued after vessel reportedly carrying 700 migrants sinks in Mediterranean Sea.
20 Apr 2015 01:21 GMT | Humanitarian crises, Europe, Migrants, Malta

As many as 700 people were feared dead after a fishing boat packed with migrants capsized off the Libyan coast overnight in what officials said may be the Mediterranean's worst disaster as thousands flee poverty and war to Europe.
The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) said that around 50 people had been rescued of the 700 reported to be aboard.
Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said the rescue operation was continuing.
"They are literally trying to find people alive among the dead floating in the water," Muscat said.
Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi called for an emergency meeting of European Union leaders this week, saying "We cannot remain insensitive when every day there is a massacre in the Mediterranean."
The incident happened in an area just off Libyan waters, 193km south of Lampedusa island, according to a report in the Times of Malta's website.
This comes amid a wave of migrants trying to leave Libya for Italian shores. 
Al Jazeera's Paul Brennan, reporting from Catania in Sicily, off Italy's southern coast, said while the weather was sunny and good on Saturday, it later turned overcast and cloudy, which meant that the seas were choppy.
He said reports indicated that the approach of Portuguese ship prompted people on board the boat to shift to one side, upsetting the weight distribution and causing it to sink.












What's fuelling the migrant exodus from North Africa?




Pope Francis, who has spoken out repeatedly on the migrant crisis, repeated his call for quick and decisive action from the international community.
"They are men and women like us, our brothers seeking a better life, starving, persecuted, wounded, exploited, victims of war. They were looking for a better life, they were looking for happiness," he told tens of thousands of people in St. Peter's Square for his Sunday noon address.
More and more migrants anxious to escape conflict in North Africa and the Middle East are making the dangerous and often deadly crossing into European territory.
Around 13,000 migrants have been rescued at sea over the past week as good weather improved sailing conditions and spurred more boats to try to cross the Mediterranean Sea.
French President Francois Hollande said the EU had to do more, telling Canal+ television that rescue and disaster prevention efforts needed "more boats, more over flights and a much more intense battle against people trafficking."
Since the begining of the year at least 900 have died trying to reach Europe.








 





Source: Al Jazeera and agencies

 RelatedPope Francis asks world to help Italy with migrants
Francis says Italy needs "much broader involvement" as it struggles to cope with influx of thousands of people.
Europe, Africa, Italy, MigrantsWave upon wave
The story of Syrians fleeing conflict, first to Libya and then to Europe on journeys fraught with danger and turmoil.
War & Conflict, Middle East, Syria, Migrants, Europe 


            Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
            are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
            or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
            global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
            accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.
     




    Featured
Despite sanctions, Pakistan's 'terrorists' thrive
Banned groups, along with their charitable and militant wings, operate freely despite sanctions.
War & Conflict, Asia, Pakistan

Welcoming Croatia shunned by refugees
Amid high unemployment, the EU's newest member state saw a 58-percent decrease in asylum claims last year.
Migrants, Croatia, Immigration

Readying the fight against UK Conservative rule
Activists are organising to oppose government cuts to already-squeezed public services such as health and welfare.
Politics, Poverty & Development, United Kingdom

Exposing sex-crime victims in Thailand 
Many who have suffered sexual assault are further victimised by a press highlighting their plight paparazzi-style.
Rape, Crime, Media
    

 Related
Pope Francis asks world to help Italy with migrants
Francis says Italy needs "much broader involvement" as it struggles to cope with influx of thousands of people.
Europe, Africa, Italy, Migrants

Wave upon wave
The story of Syrians fleeing conflict, first to Libya and then to Europe on journeys fraught with danger and turmoil.
War & Conflict, Middle East, Syria, Migrants, Europe

For migrants, help might be a decade away
     Latest News
ISIL captures strategic Syrian city of Palmyra
 Fall of ancient city, also known as Tadmur, opens way for armed group to advance towards key government-held areas.
War & Conflict, Middle East

US says coalition targeting Iraq's Ramadi
Announcement comes as people continue to flee Anbar's capital and Shia units prepare for counterattack to retake city.
War & Conflict, Middle East
    Most viewed

A migrant's journey begins
Algerian wedding
Brutal truths about ISIL victories
Netanyahu cancels West Bank Palestinian bus segregation
Experimental spacecraft to test 'sailing' in space
Gatlin 'kicked out' of Beijing athletics event
Despite sanctions, Pakistan's 'terrorists' thrive
T E Lawrence naivete lives on
Protests hit Burundi as president delays polls
Giving ISIL the battle they want in Iraq




 Programme HighlightsAl Jazeera WorldAlgerian weddingA rare glimpse at traditional life in Algeria as we go behind the scenes at three weddings in the country's west.Arts & Culture, Algeria, Africaearthrise The Power of a Calm SeaHow developments in tidal technology are helping harness the power of a calm sea.Environment, Science & Technology, Pollution101 EastMalaysia's unwantedWith refugees at risk of abuse and exploitation in Malaysia, 101 East investigates if those in charge are doing enough.Human Rights, Malaysia, MyanmarPeople & PowerMacedonia: Behind the FacadePeople & Power investigates whether rising ethnic tensions in Macedonia could result in civil conflict.Politics, Macedonia, Europe



 

 


News

Programmes

Opinion

About

Investigations

Video



Facebook

Twitter

Google+

RSS

Podcast

YouTube






					About


About Us

Press Office

Awards

Code of Ethics

Terms and Conditions

Community Guidelines




					Connect


Contact Us

Mobile

Social

Channel Finder

Broadcast Schedule

Podcasts

Newsletter

Digital Magazine






					Our Channels


AJ America

AJ +

AJ Arabic

AJ Balkans

AJ Turk

AJ Mubasher

AJ Documentary




					Our Network


AJ Center for Studies

AJ Forum

AJ Training Center

AJ Film Festival

AJ Learning

AJ Hotel Partners






					 





					© 2015 Al Jazeera Media Network





	 


































 





