Migrant Boat With Hundreds Aboard Capsizes in Mediterranean - Bloomberg BusinessMigrant Boat With Hundreds Aboard Capsizes in Mediterranean - Bloomberg Business           Bloomberg the Company & Products Bloomberg Anywhere Login      Bloomberg   Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.     Company  Careers Diversity & Inclusion Philanthropy & Engagement Sustainability Technology History & Facts    Financial Products  Bloomberg Professional Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Briefs Bloomberg Indexes Bloomberg SEF Bloomberg Institute Service Center Downloads    Enterprise Products  Enterprise Solutions Trading Solutions Bloomberg Vault    Media  Bloomberg Business Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg View Bloomberg Television Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Mobile Apps News Bureaus    Customer Support   Americas +1 212 318 2000   Europe, Middle East, & Africa +44 20 7330 7500   Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000     Communications  Press Announcements Press Contacts    Industry Products  Bloomberg Government Bloomberg Law/BNA Bloomberg Big Law Bloomberg New Energy Finance    Media Services  Advertising Bloomberg Content Service Bloomberg Live Conferences    Follow Us   Facebook   Twitter   LinkedIn   Instagram                          Menu        News     Markets     Insights     Video     Now Reading:                 Search     Global   Europe             Latest     World     Industries     Science+Energy     Technology     Design     Culture     Graphics     Pursuits     View     U.S. Politics     Businessweek         Stocks     Currencies     Commodities     Rates+Bonds     Magazine     Benchmark     Watchlist     Economic Calendar         Latest     Game Plan     Business Schools     Small Business     Personal Finance     Profiles         Watch Now     Video     Schedule + Shows     Radio     Events                     Migrant Boat With Hundreds Aboard Capsizes in Mediterranean   Don't Miss Out —   Follow us on:   Facebook   Twitter   Instagram   Youtube     by Karl Stagno NavarraLorenzo Totaro  6:39 AM EDT  April 19, 2015  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter   Share on LinkedInShare on RedditShare on Google+E-mail         An officer looks at a monitor showing ships navigating the area where the boat believed to be crowded with as many as 700 migrants capsized in waters north of Libya, in the operation room of the Coast Guard in Rome, April 19. Maltese officials said 28 people have been rescued. Photographer: Angelo Carconi/ANSA via AP       A fishing boat packed with an estimated 700 people seeking refuge in Europe capsized north of the Libyan coast, in what may become the most deadly such tragedy in the Mediterranean Sea.
Italy and Malta immediately deployed navy and coast guard ships in an effort to rescue survivors. Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi told a news conference on Sunday in Rome that 24 bodies had been recovered and 28 people had been rescued, adding that he hopes an urgent European Union summit on migration can be held by Friday.
“If confirmed, this would be the largest tragedy ever in the Mediterranean involving migrants,” Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said in a telephone interview. “Nobody should be allowed to die this way.” 
Italy has faced a wave of migrants and refugees from Africa and the Middle East who board rickety vessels in Libya, paying human traffickers to take them across the Mediterranean  to seek a haven in Europe. Italian politicians have been seeking increased international support to cope with the influx.
Refugee InfluxA Maltese military official, who asked not be identified, confirmed Italian news reports that about 700 migrants were on board when the boat left the Libyan port of Zuara. The official said the boat capsized about 61 nautical miles (113 kilometers) north of Libya late Saturday. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees also quoted Maltese authorities as saying 700 people were reported to be on board.
European Union officials have been calling for nations to do more to pool their resources in intercepting and handling the influx of refugees, with few concrete results.
The medical humanitarian organization Doctors Without Borders urged EU nations to urgently undertake large-scale search and rescue activities to avoid more deaths at sea.
“A mass grave is being created in the Mediterranean Sea and European policies are responsible,” Loris De Filippi, president of the Italian branch of Doctors Without Borders, said in a statement sent by e-mail. “Faced with thousands of desperate people fleeing wars and crises, Europe has closed borders, forcing people in search of protection to risk their lives and die at sea.”
Libya’s InstabilityLibya’s instability has caused an increase in the numbers of refugees using the country as a starting-off point for journeys to Europe across the Mediterranean Sea.
“So far in 2015, more than 35,000 asylum seekers and migrants have arrived by boat in southern Europe and –- if today’s toll is confirmed -– some 1,600 have died,” the United Nations refugee agency said in a statement on Sunday. “In 2014, around 219,000 people crossed the Mediterranean, and 3,500 lives were lost.”
European Union foreign ministers will discuss the migration issue at a meeting Monday in Luxembourg, EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said in a statement on her website.
“I’ll present a set of proposals for Libya, one of the main routes of illegal trafficking of migrants,” Mogherini said.
Pope Francis, in his weekly Sunday address to thousands in St. Peter’s Square, issued “an urgent appeal for the international community to act with determination and swiftness to avoid a repetition of similar tragedies.”
Act UrgentlyFrench President Francois Hollande said in a Canal Plus television interview that he called Renzi “to see how we can act urgently.”
“The Mediterranean is a sea we share, between Africa and Europe, so we have to act. More boats, more overflights with planes, and a much more intense fight against the trafficking,” Hollande said.
Italian news reports said the boat capsized when the passengers rushed to one side after spotting a merchant ship, in hopes of being rescued.
   Mediterranean Sea Europe Italy Libya United Nations Rome Africa Middle East Military Luxembourg              Terms of Service Trademarks Privacy Policy    ©2015 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved      Careers Made in NYC Advertise Ad Choices    Website Feedback Help            Please upgrade your Browser Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera or Internet Explorer.                  