University of Virginia students, football fans wear ‘Hope for Hannah’ ribbons | WTVR.com  
University of Virginia students, football fans wear ‘Hope for Hannah’ ribbons | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







University of Virginia students, football fans wear ‘Hope for Hannah’ ribbons

Posted 11:05 pm, September 27, 2014, by Jake Burns, Updated at 09:59am, September 28, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. –  The University of Virginia family rallied during Saturday’s home football game as the search continued for missing student Hannah Graham. Thousands of University of Virginia students and football fans wore orange “Hope for Hannah” ribbons at Scott Stadium . The color orange represented more than just school pride, it is Hannah’s favorite color.

It has been two weeks since Graham disappeared from the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville. While police continued their search for Graham, abduction suspect Jesse Matthew Jr. awaits an initial court appearance. Matthew arrived in Charlottesville Friday after he was captured in Galveston, Texas, earlier in the week.
Jesse Matthew Jr. arrived in Charlottesville Friday (PHOTO: FBI)
The City of Charlottesville, the University of Virginia and the local community have contributed $100,000 to a reward for “information leading to the cause” of Graham’s disappearance. Anyone with information is asked to call the Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew, University of Virginia 











 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration



















 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















