Hannah Graham searchers return to Jesse Matthew's apartment | WJLA.com 
Hannah Graham searchers return to Jesse Matthew's apartment | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Hannah Graham searchers return to Jesse Matthew's apartment

By The Associated Press, Jeff Goldberg, Tom Roussey

			September 22, 2014 - 02:07 pm Updated: September 22, 2014 - 11:51 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) - Officials investigating the disappearance of a University of Virginia student focused Monday on the man they believe was the last person seen with her, searching his apartment for a second time and trying to locate the campus employee to arrest him on reckless driving charges.
Continue reading


Search for person of interest intensifies



















Person of interest Jesse Matthew, left, and missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. (Photos: WTOP/AP)



More on this story


Arrest warrant on unrelated charge

Police search apartment, seize car

New videos surface in disappearance

Graham's parents fear 'foul play'

Graham reported missing a week ago



Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., 32, a patient technician in the operating room at the university's medical center, hasn't been charged in the disappearance, but authorities said they want to talk to him about Hannah Graham, 18. She has been missing since Sept. 13. Police have not offered any details about how the two may be connected.
"I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth because it's been a week and we can't find her," Charlottesville police Chief Timothy Longo said. "I've made no mistake about it. We want to talk to Jesse Matthew. We want to talk to him. We want to talk to him about his interaction with this sweet, young girl we can't find."
But, Longo also noted that "I don't want to get tunnel vision just because we have a name, just because we saw her with a particular person."
After initial searches of Matthew's car and apartment Friday, police returned with a new search warrant to his Charlottesville apartment Monday, city spokeswoman Miriam Dickler said.
Officers left the apartment carrying several items. Police Capt. Gary Pleasants  said "information that came up during our investigation" prompted police to search for something specific, but he declined to say what it was or whether it was found.
On Saturday, Matthew stopped by the Charlottesville police station with several family members and asked for a lawyer, Longo said. He was provided with one but left in a vehicle at a high rate of speed that endangered other drivers and led to the reckless driving charges, according to the police chief. He said Matthew was there for about an hour.
Virginia State Police officers were conducting surveillance of the vehicle at the time but did not pursue Matthew, a spokeswoman said.
Pleasants said investigators have questioned Matthew's mother and uncle, who accompanied him to the police station. He added that search crews on Monday covered areas in the southern part of the city that had not previously been searched.
Also Monday, the Charlottesville Police Department released a wanted poster on Matthew.  (See the wanted poster at the bottom of this article.) It says the 6-foot-2, 270-pound man was last reported on Sunday as driving his sister's 1997 light blue Nissan Sentra, and notes that he is said to have contacts in Virginia, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C.
Police said they have focused on Graham's movements the night of Sept. 12 and into the early morning hours of Sept. 13. Graham, a sophomore from Alexandria, met friends at a restaurant for dinner, stopped by two parties at off-campus housing units and left the second party alone, police have said.
Surveillance videos showed her walking, and at some points running, past a pub and a service station and then onto the Downtown Mall, a seven-block pedestrian strip lined with shops and restaurants.
Graham's disappearance has sent a ripple of fear through the quiet college town of Charlottesville. Students have said they've begun walking in pairs at night and are paying closer attention to their surroundings. More than 1,000 volunteers also participated in a weekend search for Hannah Graham, according to authorities.
Graham's parents appeared at a Sunday news conference where her father, John Graham, appealed for anyone with information to call a police tip line.
"This is every parent's worst nightmare," John Graham said. "We need to find out what happened to Hannah and make sure it happens to no one else."
According to family members and police, Graham is an alpine skier and plays the alto saxophone. Organizers of a candlelight vigil last week at the university handed out her favorite candy, Starburst. Longo said he learned from visiting with Graham's parents that the graduate of West Potomac High School earned straight A's six years in a row.
Wanted Poster



Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
University Of Virginia, 
Missing Student, 
Missing Woman, 
Charlottesville, 
Search Warrant, 
Apartment, 
Virginia, 
UVA, 
UVa., 
Crime, 
Virginia Crime








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Only On 7: Family of D.C. dirt bike crash victim speaks out



Rockville Safeway employees stop IRS scam in its tracks, save couple $4K



Theresa Elaine Brown charged with assault and battery for allegedly biting a 13-month-old boy at a Woodbridge school












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper
















Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Philadelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny









As search continues, father believes Hoggle kids are still alive









Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

