 Hannah Graham: Suspect in Case of Missing Coed in Custody  | KTLA  

 Hannah Graham: Suspect in Case of Missing Coed in Custody  | KTLA






GoSearch







 Replay: KTLA 5 Morning News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






KTLA

 Menu

News
Morning News
Contests
Traffic
Social
Events
About




Weather 

82°







82°


Low 71°
High 91°





Tue


					64°  87°
					


Wed


					64°  85°
					


Thu


					64°  82°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Hannah Graham: Suspect in Case of Missing Coed in Custody

Posted 9:27 PM, September 24, 2014, by CNN Wire 

Share this:FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 



 A file photo of Jesse Matthew. (Credit: 	C-VILLE Weekly) 
The only known suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham was in custody Wednesday night.
Jesse Matthew, who had been sought on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile, was arrested in Galveston County, Texas. He was found on the beach in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, according to that county’s sheriff’s office.
“We have a person in custody, but there’s a long road ahead of us, and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters.
He declined to go into the circumstances of Matthew being taken into custody. It was not immediately clear whether he had surrendered.
Police in Virginia are looking for missing college student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. The University of Virginia student was last heard from on September 13, 2014. (Credit: Charlottesville Police)
An extradition process is under way for the 32-year-old Matthew, who is also wanted on suspicion of two counts of reckless driving, Longo said.
Earlier, Matthew’s lawyer was mum about most everything.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” said James Camblos, who spoke outside his office in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not,” he said.
His comments came one day after authorities obtained an arrest warrant for his client, who police believe was the last person with Graham.
She was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Investigators have been looking for her since, and in an increasingly large area.
“We’re asking for a broader community search with property owners,” Longo told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360,” in an interview to air Wednesday night.
Specifically, he said he wants property owners of large parcels in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities have previously searched Matthew’s apartment and car. Although they have declined to discuss the specifics of what might have been found, potential evidence was sent to a lab for analysis.
According to Longo, Matthew willingly went to a police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest.
He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, Longo said.
Camblos confirmed that he was the attorney who met with Matthew at the police station.
“I’m not telling you anything else at this point,” he said.
Authorities are now offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
They have received 1,500 tips so far in the case, and are urging anyone with information to call the police tip line at 434-295-3851.
“We’re asking every person within the sound of my voice to help us find Hannah Graham,” Longo, the police chief, said.



Filed in: Nation/World 











 






KTLA 5 News on Instagram








 

 


Popular



Memorials Held For 5 Teens Killed in Fiery Crash on Way Back From Knott’s Scary Farm



Fan Critically Injured After Being Beaten in Angel Stadium Parking Lot Following Playoff Game



Teen Driver in Fiery I-5 Crash in Irvine Didn’t Have a License;  5 Others Killed



Multiple Fatalities Reported in Fiery Three Vehicle Crash in Chino







 


Latest News



Fall’s Hottest Fitness Tools



Officer Gives Young Mom Car Seat Instead of a Ticket



Maryum Ali on Documentary ‘I Am Ali’



Glendale K-9s in the Park















Nation/World

Suspect in Hannah Graham Disappearance Linked to Second Missing Virginia Coed, Morgan Harrington


Local News

4 Teens in Custody in ‘Senseless’ Killing of USC Graduate Student: LAPD


Local News

Man Arrested After 3 Family Members Are Killed in Turlock Hit-and-Run


Local News

Wheelchair-Bound Robbery Suspect in Custody After Lengthy Pursuit in San Diego


Local News

Man Booked on Suspicion of Selling Heroin to High School Students in Huntington Beach



 


Local News

Man Ran Onto OC Preschool Campus, Brandished Knife, Was Arrested: Police


Local News

3 Men Arrested in Simi Valley on Suspicion of Identity Theft


Local News

Man Arrested After Allegedly Trespassing, Sleeping in Women’s Restroom at Cal State Long Beach


Local News

4 Teens Charged With Murder in Beating Death of USC Grad Student; Bat Allegedly Used


Local News

South Pasadena Teens Planned to ‘Kill as Many People as Possible,’ Police Chief Says of Alleged Plot



 


Local News

Apparent ‘Practical Joke’ Threat Posted to Social Media Leads to Arrest of Another Santa Clarita Valley Teen


Local News

Whittier Barricade Situation Ends; No One in Custody


Local News

Producer in Beverly Hills for Emmy Pre-Party Mistaken for Bank Robber, Held 6 Hours






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
KTLA 5 News on Social Media
Watch CW Shows




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5800 Sunset Blvd. Los Angeles, CA, 90028  •
		Copyright © 2014, KTLA		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















