Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink | WTVR.com  
Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink

Posted 2:56 pm, September 20, 2014, by Scott Wise, Sandra Jones, Chelsea Rarrick, Web Staff and Rashard Rose, Updated at 11:31pm, September 20, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 








CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Police identified a person of interest in the disappearance of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. Charlottesville Police Capt. Gary Pleasants confirmed police searched the car and apartment of a man named Jesse Matthew on Friday.
“We have reason to believe she was inside a bar on the mall, with an individual  who lived on Hessian Hill Way,” Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo said Friday.
He referenced video from Sal’s Restaurant, that showed a dreadlocked man originally walking west bound on the mall. The video showed the man cross the mall, and start walking behind Hannah, eastbound.



“People saw Hannah and people saw him, and people saw them together. And it’s entirely possible that Hannah Graham may have gotten into his vehicle,” Chief Longo said.
A British news website reported Matthew has told his family he bought the UVa. student a drink, but did not drive off with her.


Just spoke with woman who says she's grandma of Jesse Matthew, POI in #HannahGraham case. Says "They've got the wrong person." @CBS6
— Chelsea Rarrick (@ChelseaCBS6) September 20, 2014

“He said he went his way and she went hers,” Matthew’s grandmother told the Daily Mail . “He told his mother he bought her some drinks. He said she did not get into his car. The girl went her way and he went his.”
On Saturday, more than 1,000 volunteers searched for Graham in Charlottesville. The massive search started in the morning and was expected to continue until the sun set Saturday evening. Graham was last seen one week ago.


Volunteers are knocking on doors in residential Charlottesville looking for Hannah Graham. pic.twitter.com/HfBeV6v4Wc
— Sandra Jones (@sjonesontv) September 20, 2014

Among the volunteers looking for Graham is the family of Alexis Murphy. Murphy was the high school student from nearby Nelson County who disappeared last year. A man was later arrested and convicted for her abduction and murder, even though her body was never found.


Family of Alexis Murphy joins in the search for #HannahGraham pic.twitter.com/OmsKWfa3Ap
— Sandra Jones (@sjonesontv) September 20, 2014

“We wanted the whole world to search for Lexi,” Alexis’ great-aunt Trina Murphy said when asked why the Murphy family volunteered for the search. “This has been a tough week for our family too.”
A $50,000 reward is now being offered in hopes of soliciting tips that could lead police to Graham. The City of Charlottesville and the University of Virginia are each offering $10,000. In addition, some local residents and businesses have contributed $30,000 to the reward.
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.
All surveillance videos can be seen here.
All reports filed on this case can be found here.
This is a developing story.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






 Antenna TV
Check out classic TV shows and movies on 6.2. Comcast 207|Verizon 479  







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Police: Man with dreads went into bar with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know



 


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

WATCH LIVE: Press conference on missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police search for ‘person of interest’ in UVa. student Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Tempo Bar owner: We did not serve Hannah Graham alcohol


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















