Hannah Graham: Suspect Arrested in Case of Missing UVA Student  - NBC News 
Hannah Graham: Suspect Arrested in Case of Missing UVA Student  - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
Florida Quarterback Suspended Over Assault Accusation 
Gov. Perry Calls On Washington To Take Steps To Minimize Ebola
Hewlett-Packard to Split Into Two Companies: Report
How Cheap Was India's Mars Mission?







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search






















                            12 days
                            



News
  
Missing teen Hannah Graham.
 


Hannah Graham: Suspect Arrested in Case of Missing UVA Student 





































The man charged with abducting missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham has been arrested in Texas, police said.Jesse Matthew, 32, was arrested Wednesday afternoon in Galveston County, Texas, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters Wednesday evening. He did not provide any details about how Matthew was arrested, or how he got to Texas. Matthew was charged Tuesday with abduction with intent to defile in the disappearance of second-year student Hannah Graham, 18, who vanished after leaving an off-campus party on Sept. 13.“This case is nowhere near over. We have a person in custody, but a long road ahead of us,” Longo said. “We’re asking every person within the sound of my voice to find Hannah.”The Galveston County Sheriff's Office said Matthew was arrested on a beach in Gilchrist, Texas, at around 3:30 p.m. but wouldn't provide further details. FBI Special Agent Adam Lee called the arrest "a positive close to this chapter of this very important case."Police had previously searched Matthew’s apartment and car, but at that time said they had no probable cause to detain him for questioning. Matthew had not been seen since he sped away from the Charlottesville police station Saturday after a brief interview, when he was only considered a person of interest in Graham's disappearance.Surveillance videos showed Graham walking, and then running, as she passed a Charlottesville gas station at 1 a.m. Sept. 13, after leaving an off-campus party. Other video showed her briefly speaking to a man outside of a bar, and then walking in a mall downtown, where a witness said a man was seen putting his arm around her. More than 1,000 volunteers fanned out last weekend searching for any sign of the missing student or what happened to her.Graham is one of five girls to go missing in the Charlottesville area in the last five years. Last Thursday, an estimated 2,000 people gathered at a candlelight vigil at the university.
















IN-DEPTHNew Charges Announced for Suspect in UVA Student CaseWhat Happened to Hannah Graham? Everything You Need to Know About the CaseSOCIAL— Phil Helsel
First published September 24 2014, 3:50 PM



 

 

 

 











About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

