Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach | Q13 FOX News  
Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

65°







65°


Low 59°
High 70°





Tue


					58°  69°
					


Wed


					57°  68°
					


Thu


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 Show off your pride, Seahawks fans! (SUBMIT YOUR PHOTO)						



 5 things to watch for in Monday’s Seattle vs. Washington game						
















Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach

Posted 7:29 AM, September 25, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 


esse Leroy Matthew, the only known suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, was taken into custody Wednesday night, Sept. 24, 2014 in Galveston County, Texas. Matthew was found camping on a beach in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, police said.
DALLAS — A Texas judge Thursday ordered Jesse Matthew, a suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, held without bond pending his extradition to Virginia.
In an appearance before Galveston County Judge Mark Henry, Matthew declined to request a court-appointed attorney to fight either his extradition or a Galveston County charge of giving false information to a peace officer. Henry later told CNN affiliate KPRC that he expects Virginia authorities to collect Matthew “within a day or two.”
Authorities found Matthew on a Texas beach some 1,300 miles from where he’s wanted in the disappearance.
“We have a person in custody, but there’s a long road ahead of us, and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters Wednesday night.
Matthew, who had been sought on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile, was arrested in Galveston County. He was found on the beach Wednesday afternoon in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, according to the Galveston County Sheriff’s Office.
Deputies were tipped off to Matthew’s whereabouts when they got a call about a suspicious person camping on the beach. One responded and ran the license plate of that person’s vehicle. It came back as wanted, CNN affiliate KPRC reported.
Matthew did not resist arrest, KPRC said.
Earlier, Matthew’s lawyer had little to say about his client.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” James Camblos said outside his Charlottesville office.
“I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not,” he said.
His comments came a day after authorities obtained an arrest warrant for his client, who police believe was the last person with Graham.
Matthew willingly went to a police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest, Longo said. He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, the police chief said.
Authorities are now offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
They have received 1,500 tips so far in the case and are urging anyone with information to call the police tip line at 434-295-3851.
Graham was last seen on September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Investigators have been looking for her since, and over an increasingly large area.
“We’re asking for a broader community search with property owners,” Longo told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360″ on Wednesday night.
Specifically, he said he wants owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities have previously searched Matthew’s apartment and car. Although they have declined to discuss the specifics of what might have been found, potential evidence was sent to a lab for analysis.



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








			2 comments		




 

SHYLA

I CAN’T IMAGINE THE HORRIBLE DEATH THIS GIRL HAD.  MY HEART GOES OUT TO HER PARENTS. NOW , ARE WHITE POPLE GOING TO GO RIOT AND RAMPAGE LIKE A WHITE ON
BLACK CRIME; IS THE PRESIDENT GOING TO GO ON TV AND MAKE A STATEMENT????
I THING NOT; IT WILL BE SHOVED UNDER THE RUG LIKE ALL THE BLACK ON WHITE CRIMES
IN THIS COUNTRY.




							September 25, 2014 at 1:32 PM						

Reply







 

Paul Maggard

First off you don’t even know if she is a victim she could have simply ran off or still be on a bender drinking getting ripped because the cops say he is involved he must be right is that because he is black? or is that just because you believe what ever the cops say cause they never lie so far all I can see from what I’ve read and saw is he was seen with her at one point that does not mean jack does not make him some murderer for all we know she is off doing what ever still very much alive I find it troubling how they can arrest someone for a crime that has not been committed or the very least has not been proven to be committed




							September 25, 2014 at 9:14 PM						

Reply








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 Q13 FOX NEWS AT 11
Tracking Tomorrow Tonight. 
It’s 30 minutes focused exclusively on how tonight’s developing news will impact you tomorrow. 
And how the weather you felt today will affect what you see outside in the morning.
Q13 FOX News at 11












Popular



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



SEE IT:  Man’s heated confrontation with panhandler goes viral










Latest News



Ultra-marathoner trying to ‘run’ from Florida to Bermuda in bubble rescued by Coast Guard



Police: Miami Dolphins lineman arrested after confrontation with officer



FOLLOW UP:  Elderly panhandler caught on camera getting into new car attacks news crew (VIDEO)



‘Home Sharing’ pairs unlikely strangers as NYC rent spikes















National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student


Crime National & World News

REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student


Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know






National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


Crime National & World News

Could there be others?  Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Hannah Graham disappearance


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03






National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts







































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















