Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction | fox4kc.com  
Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 49°
High 67°





Tue


					53°  75°
					


Wed


					54°  77°
					


Thu


					58°  70°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction

Posted 1:11 pm, September 29, 2014, by Andrew Lynch 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Jesse Matthew, the man suspected of abducting University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, has been forensically linked to another young woman’s disappearance. Sister station WTVR reports forensic evidence belonging to Graham matched evidence collected during the investigation of Morgan Harrington’s disappearance in 2009.
Twenty-year-old Harrington was a student at Virginia Tech who disappeared outside of Jon Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville on October 17, 2009, her body was later found at a farm in January of 2010. In an email obtained by WTVR, Virginia State Police said that Matthew’s arrest provided a significant break in the Harrington case.
WTVR reports that it sources have not indicated what Matthew may have done to or with Harrington, but the evidence shows that Harrington and Matthew had some sort of contact on the night she disappeared in 2009. Her mom told the TV station that they’ve waited five years for this kind of break in the case and implored the public to continue supplying tips in Graham’s current disappearance.
Graham was reported missing on September 14 after last being seen on September 13. Less than a week later, Matthew’s car and apartment were searched. During the investigation, police received more forensic evidence that pointed to Matthew as a suspect, and on September 24 he was found about 1,300 miles away from Charlottesville on the Bolivar Peninsula of Texas.
Matthew has since been extradited to Virginia and been charged with abduction with intent to defile in Graham’s disappearance, he’s also been charged with giving false information to a police officer. He’s due in court on Thursday to face the abduction charge.
A $100,000 reward for information leading to her safe return is being offered by authorities. If you have information that may be of use to the investigation, call (434) 295-3851 or 1-800-THE LOST.
For continuing coverage about this story, please visit our sister station WTVR.



Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Graham, Jesse Matthew 











 






Have a news tip?
Click here to tell FOX 4!







 

 


Popular



Royals sweep Angels in ALDS, advance to AL Championship Series to play Baltimore



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Blood moon returns, and this time it’s bigger



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Gone Girl rakes in $38 million this weekend



Theater buff loses 121 pounds, nabs the leading role in his life



Fit with FOX 4: Healthy foods















News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody


News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham


News

Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham



 


News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond


News

Parents make desperate plea to help find their daughter


News

Missing student Hannah Graham spotted on video walking in opposite direction of apartment


News

Virginia dad accused of leaving twin babies in car while having sex nearby


News

‘Active shooter’ scare at Fort Lee ends after soldier shoots herself



 


News

Realtor vanishes on the job; suspect arrested


News

Pair arrested in disappearance of Missouri man who was last seen in 2011


News

Police say man cut several inches of woman’s hair off during a hug






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















