Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’ | Q13 FOX News  

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’ | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

65°







65°


Low 59°
High 70°





Tue


					58°  69°
					


Wed


					57°  68°
					


Thu


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 Show off your pride, Seahawks fans! (SUBMIT YOUR PHOTO)						



 5 things to watch for in Monday’s Seattle vs. Washington game						
















Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’

Posted 10:51 AM, October 4, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff, Updated at 01:41pm, October 4, 2014 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



(CNN) — The parents of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham issued a new appeal for the whereabouts of their daughter on Saturday, saying despite an arrest in the case, thousands of tips and hours of searches, someone must have critical information yet to be revealed.
“Somebody listening to me today either knows where Hannah is, or knows someone who has that information,” the mother, Sue Graham, says in a video released by the city of Charlottesville, home to the university. “We appeal to you to come forward and tell us where Hannah can be found.”
“Please, please, please help end this nightmare for all of us,” she continues. “Please help us to bring Hannah home.”


Hannah Graham, an 18-year-old in her second year at the university, was last seen September 13 in area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall.
Thirteen days later, police in Texas arrested a suspect in the case, Jesse Matthew, 32. Matthew, who investigators say is the last person believed to be with Graham, was extradited to Virginia, where he was charged with abduction with intent to defile and is being held in jail.
Still, authorities say they don’t know where Graham is. They are offering a $100,000 reward leading to her safe return. More than 3,000 tips about her possible whereabouts have come in, police spokesman Carter Johnson said.
In the video released Saturday, Sue Graham, standing with her husband, John, thanks everyone who has participated in the search, contributed money to the reward fund, and given tips to police.
But with her their daughter still missing, the Grahams said they felt compelled to plead with anyone who might be hiding information.
“John has already said that this is every parent’s worst nightmare. That is true, but it is also a nightmare for our son, James, for Hannah’s grandparents and other members of our family, as well as for all of Hannah’s many friends here in Charlottesville and beyond,” Sue Graham said.
As part of the search effort, police asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
And searchers have used an aerial drone in the search — the first time, according to authorities, one has been used to look for a missing person in the state. The drone, with a high-quality camera, has been used to help searchers check vast tracts of land in the area.
‘Link’ between Graham case, death of another woman
Earlier this week, law enforcement sources told CNN that DNA links Matthew to the 2009 death of a different woman in Virginia, Morgan Harrington. Virginia State Police have said only that there is a “new forensic link” between Harrington’s case and Graham’s.
Harrington, a 20-year-old student at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009. She was last seen hitchhiking along U.S. 29 outside of Charlottesville, and her remains were found on a farm months later.
No arrests have been made in Harrington’s case, and the cause of her death still is under investigation.


CNN’s Athena Jones, Mike Ahlers and Ed Payne contributed to this report.





Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 Q13 FOX NEWS AT 11
Tracking Tomorrow Tonight. 
It’s 30 minutes focused exclusively on how tonight’s developing news will impact you tomorrow. 
And how the weather you felt today will affect what you see outside in the morning.
Q13 FOX News at 11












Popular



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



SEE IT:  Man’s heated confrontation with panhandler goes viral










Latest News



Ultra-marathoner trying to ‘run’ from Florida to Bermuda in bubble rescued by Coast Guard



Police: Miami Dolphins lineman arrested after confrontation with officer



FOLLOW UP:  Elderly panhandler caught on camera getting into new car attacks news crew (VIDEO)



‘Home Sharing’ pairs unlikely strangers as NYC rent spikes















National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student


Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


National & World News

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham






National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach


Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student






National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student


Crime National & World News

REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















