FBI, Virginia State Police investigated possible link between Alexis Murphy and Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
FBI, Virginia State Police investigated possible link between Alexis Murphy and Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







FBI, Virginia State Police investigated possible link between Alexis Murphy and Hannah Graham

Posted 12:24 pm, September 24, 2014, by Scott Wise, Updated at 12:42pm, September 24, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 


NELSON COUNTY, Va. — There is no evidence Hannah Graham abduction suspect Jesse Matthew Jr. was involved in the disappearance and death of missing Nelson County teen Alexis Murphy, Nelson County Commonwealth’s Attorney Anthony Martin clarified in a statement issued Wednesday morning.
Alexis Murphy (left) and Hannah Graham
“In recent days, there has been much discussion in news reports and on social media as to whether or not there is any connection between the case involving Jesse Leroy Matthew, Jr., charged in connection with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham and Randy Allen Taylor who was convicted in May 2014 for abduction with intent to defile and the first degree murder of Alexis Murphy,” Martin wrote.
Specifically, he said, Matthew Jr. was not the man Taylor tried to “implicate in his trial of being with Alexis Murphy when she left Taylor’s camper in August 2013.” Taylor implicated another man, who was later cleared, Martin said. Martin said neither Matthew’s name nor any vehicle that matched the description of Matthew’s car came up during the Taylor investigation and subsequent.
Despite those facts, Martin said, the FBI and Virginia State Police re-examined security camera footage taken of Murphy the day she disappeared to clear up any lingering questions.
Alexis Murphy walks past a security camera at Liberty Gas Station.
“Some have questioned whether or not the surveillance video from Liberty Gas Station the night Alexis Murphy disappeared show her walking behind the back of an object some say looks like Jesse Matthews’ vehicle,” Martin said. “FBI and Virginia State Police have re-examined that footage in light of these concerns and are confident that the orange object is not a vehicle, but a portion of a sign hanging from the window.”

Taylor was convicted of Murphy’s murder, even though Murphy’s body was never found.
Members of the Murphy family were among the more than 1,000 volunteers who searched for Graham last weekend.
“We wanted the whole world to search for Lexi,” Alexis’ great-aunt Trina Murphy said when asked why the Murphy family volunteered for the search. “This has been a tough week for our family too.”
On Tuesday, September 23, Charlottesville Police announced Matthew Jr.  was wanted for abduction with intent to defile Hannah Graham.

Graham, an 18-year-old University of Virginia student, was reported missing on Sunday, Sept. 14, but no one has seen her since early Saturday, Sept. 13.
Police said that in addition to his home state of Virginia, Matthew had known associates in Washington D.C., Maryland, Pennsylvania and New York.
A $50,000 reward is now being offered in hopes of soliciting tips that could lead police to Graham.
Anyone with information regarding Graham’s whereabouts should call (434) 295-3851 or 1-800-THE-LOST.
All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Alexis Murphy, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew, Nelson County, Randy Taylor 











 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Commonwealth’s attorney will order ‘scientific testing’ to rule out Jesse Matthew in Alexis Murphy case


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Lawyer: Randy Taylor knows location of Alexis Murphy’s body


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink



 


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Hannah Graham searchers have an important message for Virginia hunters and hikers


News

Sexual assault filed against Jesse Matthew at Christopher Newport University in 2003


News

Drones deployed over Virginia to search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect



 


News

Morgan Harrington’s mom says ‘possibility of good outcome’ exists for Hannah Graham


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















