UPDATED: Police Seek Person of Interest in Search for Hannah Graham 
UPDATED: Police Seek Person of Interest in Search for Hannah Graham

























October 6, 2014



Community Counts
HealthLink
Apps







Search





 




















 



Home 
News  

News

News Headlines
Need to Know
Breaking News Alerts
News Video
Live Stream
Education
Meet the News Team
News Tip
Polls
Politics
State/Regional
Affordable Care Act


Weather  

Weather

Closings & Delays
Interactive Radar
Skyline Network
Severe Weather Alerts
Weather Authority Facebook
CBS19Weather Twitter
Meet the Weather Team
3-Degree Guarantee


Sports  

Sports

Sports Headlines
Friday Night EndZone
UVa Athletics
ACC
High School SportsZone
Meet the Sports Team
Student Athlete of the Week
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em


Features  

Features

Barefoot Excursions
Blue Ridge Outdoors
Dental Minute
Edible Blue Ridge
Inside Charlottesville
Jay James on Faith
Pet Project
Political Tuesday
Real Estate III TV
Stephanie's Heroes
Street Safe Teens
UVa Today
What's Going Around
Wine Wednesdays


HealthLINK 
Skyline Network  

Skyline Network

All Cameras
CHO Airport
Fork Union
Martha Jefferson
Old Trail Village
Westminster


Pump Patrol 
Life  

Life

Entertainment
Lottery
MomsEveryday
MyCapture
Pouring in Virginia
TXTL8R


Community  

Community

Community Calendar
VNB Community Counts
Martha Jefferson HealthWise
TXT L8R


Contests  

Contests

Auto Racing Challenge
Dralion Text 2 Win Contest
Fan of the Day
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em
TXT L8R Sweepstakes
Wildlife Photo Contest
3 Degree Guarantee


Station  

Station

Contact Us
Email Directory
Meet the Team
Creative Services
Advertise with Us
Closed Captioning
Program Guide
CBS Shows
Public File
Video Request Form
Waiver Information
Your Feedback


Connect  

Connect

Android App
iPhone / iPad Apps
E-News
Newsplex Facebook
Newsplex Twitter
Newsplex Text Alerts
Newsplex YouTube
RSS Feeds


Jobs  

Jobs

Newsplex Jobs
VA Job Connections
Job of the Day







 

















UPDATED: Police Seek Person of Interest in Search for Hannah Graham



Updated: Thu 5:10 PM, Sep 18, 2014















Home
 / Headlines List
 / Article 































More Video...













																						Police Seek Person of Interest in Search for Hannah Graham (5p)
														










																						New Hannah Graham Surveillance Outside Sal's
														










																						Tuel Jewelers Graham Vid
														























More Stories
UPDATED: Police Hold Press Conference on Missing UVa. Student















Sept. 18, 2014
The Charlottesville Police Department is seeking a person of interest related to the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. 
Police say they want to talk with a man who was seen by eyewitnesses talking to 18-year-old Hannah Graham on the Downtown Mall on the night she disappeared. 
Police describe this person as a black male, 5'10"-5'11", 250-285 pounds, close shaved head, goatee, with a slight 'beer belly'. He is described as being in his late 20's-early 30's and wearing black jeans and a white t-shirt. 
Police say he was seen with Graham on East Main Street on the mall around 1:15 a.m. on September 13th (Friday night/Saturday morning). 
He is a person of interest and if anyone has any information on him or saw him this night, please call the tip line. The number is: (434) 295-3851.
Police say they have already interviewed one man seen in two grainy surveillance videos with Graham.
Charlottesville Police Captain Gary Pleasants said Thursday the videos of Graham early Saturday are from businesses on the mall: One video shows her outside Sal's Caffe Italia.  A man standing in the left corner can be seen following Graham after she walks by. 
The other footage is from Tuel Jewelers, and also shows the first man following Graham. 
Capt. Pleasants says the first man in the videos later went to police and described Graham appearing to be distress. The witness told police he saw another man approach Graham, who then put his arm around her. The witness says he thought the two knew each other, so he walked away.
Pleasants says police want to talk to the other man.
Police say Graham had been drinking earlier in the evening, and in the video she appears disoriented. She had also sent a text message to friends saying that she was lost.
"She was vulnerable, that she may not have been in a position to protect herself, to defend herself," said Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo. "She may not have been in a position to make good decisions."
Investigators say the videos from Charlottesville businesses are helping to track Graham's whereabouts in the moments before she disappeared.
The search Graham moved further east on Thursday, shifting from the Downtown Mall to the banks of the Rivanna River. Search crews were out near Riverview Park this morning, along with areas east of the Downtown Mall.
Police are asking anyone who may have seen Hannah Graham in the early hours of Saturday, Sept. 13th, to come forward. 
Anyone with information on her disappearance asked to call Charlottesville Police at 434-295-3851.
The City of Charlottesville is now offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to the cause of the disappearance of Hannah Graham.In addition to this money from the city, UVa. is also offering $10,000 and some local individuals and businesses have come forward wishing to contribute funds to a reward.  
The total reward being offered at this time, with all contributions, is $50,000.











3 Win Medicine Nobel for Discovering Brain's GPS 












The comments sections of Newsplex.com are designed for thoughtful, intelligent conversation and debate. We want to hear from our viewers, but we ask that you follow our rules for commenting. E-mail is required to comment on a story, but it will not be displayed with your comment. For complete rules, CLICK HERE. The Newsplex reserves the right to not post or to remove any comment.



Please enable JavaScript to view the powered by Disqus.
powered by Disqus



















































		Most Read Stories			



Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham
Historic Estate In Virginia To Be Sold At Auction
Searchers Increase Personnel to Search for Missing Teen
Local Entrepreneur Turns Passion into Profit
Teachers Feeling Stress
Police Using New Tactic to Issue Texting While Driving Tickets
Supreme Court Rejects Appeals in Gay Marriage Cases
Dozens of Girls Donate Their Ponytails wit Wigs for Warriors













Tweets from @CBS19/newsplex-accounts




Today's Events
Today's community events.
Monday October 6



Fall Revival
Sleepout for the Homeless
Colonnade Club Cornerstone Celebration
UVA Hosted: Baby Basics Moms Club

Click Here to Submit and View Events









































The Charlottesville Newsplex
999 2nd Street S.E.
Charlottesville, VA 22902
434.242.1919 – Main
434.220.7522 - Newsroom

 - Copyright © 2002-2014 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability   275598671 - newsplex.com/a?a=275598671 					





Website Policy
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy/YOUR CALIFORNIA PRIVACY RIGHTS
Advertising
EEO Statement
Public Inspection File






×
Online Public Information File


Click Here to access the online Public Inspection File
Viewers with disabilities can get assistance accessing this station's FCC Public Inspection File by contacting the station with the information listed below. Questions or concerns relating to the accessibility of the FCC's online public file system should be directed to the FCC at 888-225-5322, 888-835-5322 (TTY), or fccinfo@fcc.gov.

Public File Liaison:
Emily Hall - 434-242-1919 Ext. 137

Station Contact Info:
The Charlottesville Newsplex999 2nd Street S.E.Charlottesville, VA 22902434.242.1919 – Main434.220.7522 - Newsroom


Close























