Alexandria friends, neighbors cite Hannah Graham's wit, intelligence | WJLA.com 
Alexandria friends, neighbors cite Hannah Graham's wit, intelligence | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Alexandria friends, neighbors cite Hannah Graham's wit, intelligence

By The Associated Press

			September 27, 2014 - 04:02 pm Updated: September 27, 2014 - 08:17 pm
		


















Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) - Yellow ribbons adorn the streets of Hannah Graham's northern Virginia neighborhood, symbols of hope in a community devastated by the disappearance of a woman known for her intelligence, wit and dry sense of humor.  
Continue reading





Hannah Graham. (Photo: Charlottesville Police)



More on this story


Matthew arrested on remote Texas peninsula, haven for pirates, fugitives for centuries

Bar owner: Graham seemed incapacitated when she left with Matthew

Prosecutor: Matthew suspected in '02 rape



Graham vanished on Sept. 13, her steps recorded by grainy surveillance videos as she walked unaccompanied on the streets of Charlottesville and its popular Downtown Mall, an open air center of shops, bars and restaurants. She is a sophomore at the University of Virginia.
A suspect in her disappearance, Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., was released from the county jail in Galveston, Texas, and extradited to Charlottesville on Friday evening, said Charlottesville spokeswoman Miriam Dickler. Capt. Aaron Carver of the Charlottesville-Albermarle Regional Jail said Matthew is in custody there.
Matthew was being held without bond and is expected to have an initial court appearance Thursday, Dickler said. He was arrested on a beach near Galveston on Wednesday.
Police have charged Matthew, 32, with "abduction with intent to defile" the 18-year-old Graham. "Defile," in a legal context, means "sexually molest."
Authorities said they had probable cause to support the charge against Matthew after twice searching his apartment and gathering evidence they have not described, saying it ultimately will be presented at trial.
A crime lab is testing clothing recovered through search warrants, but police haven't said whose clothing that was.  In the meantime, police in Charlottesville have indicated that they have no idea where Graham is.
"It's extremely frustrating," said Charlottesville resident Nancy Murphy Spicer, who participated in a volunteer search for Graham last weekend. "I just want to hear that they found her and that she's well."
In her hometown of Alexandria, Graham is known as whip smart, with broad interests and eclectic tastes in music.  She moved from Britain to the U.S. when she was about 6 and was determined to lose her British accent, said Craig Maniglia, her softball coach at West Potomac High School and a family friend who lives in the Grahams' neighborhood.
Maniglia described her as "witty, polite, extremely intelligent, with a very dry British sense of humor."
Graham played saxophone in the high school band and had a weakness for Elvis, students and teachers said. At a vigil Wednesday at her old high school, the band played Elvis' "Can't Help falling in Love." Her favorite candy, Starburst, was scattered on the cafeteria tables where the vigil was held.
Graham and her softball teammates routinely warmed up to a wide range of music from her iPod that was blasted over the loudspeakers, Maniglia said.
"All of a sudden you could hear a classical piece, and then maybe Elvis, and then maybe AC/DC," he said. "It was such a wide variety of music. That's what I liked about it."
Now, Maniglia said, one of his daughters, away at college, has been having nightmares since Graham's disappearance.
"She'll send me texts at 3:30, 4 in the morning, saying, 'It could've been me. It could've been (my sister). What is wrong with this world?'"
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo, who has made emotional public pleas seeking Graham's recovery, has acknowledged that the longer Graham remains missing, the dimmer the hope she will be found alive.
The search for Graham has expanded to rural areas outside the college town of 40,000.
"We have an obligation to bring her home, one way or the other. That's what we promised to do," Longo said Thursday.
The hunt for Matthew ended in the Texas beach town of Gilchrist, 1,260 miles from Charlottesville. A deputy sheriff responding to a suspicious-person report found him camping on the beach.
Authorities say Graham met friends at a restaurant for dinner Sept. 12 before stopping by two off-campus parties. She left the second party alone and eventually texted a friend saying she was lost, authorities said.
Matthew attended Liberty University from 2000 to 2002, said officials with the Lynchburg school founded by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell. The school's athletics website listed him as a defensive lineman on the football team.
While at Liberty, Matthew was accused of raping a student on campus, but the charge was ultimately dropped, Lynchburg Commonwealth's Attorney Michael Doucette said Friday.
"The complaining witness said she did not consent; Mr. Matthew said she did consent," Doucette said.
Ultimately, the woman said she did not want to move forward with the investigation, he said.
"When the investigator called, she never returned his calls, so the decision was made not to place a charge at that time," Doucette said.
The Lynchburg Police Department investigative file was being sent to Charlottesville at the request of police investigating Graham's disappearance, he said.
Matthew attended Christopher Newport University in Newport News from January 2003 through Oct. 15, 2003, the Newport News university confirmed in an email. He was briefly a member of the football team, according to the university.
Citing federal privacy laws, Christopher Newport said it could provide no further information on Matthew.
More recently, Matthew volunteered to help coach football at The Covenant School, a private Christian grade school in Charlottesville, where officials said he had passed background and reference checks.


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
UVA, 
UVa., 
University Of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, 
Virginia, 
NewsChannel 8








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Marcus McCurdy charged with spying on woman in Toys-R-Us restroom stall in Glen Burnie



Search and rescue teams, canine units continue search for Hannah Graham



D.C. officer wounded in southeast shooting; one man killed, another wounded












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Arrest site for Hannah Graham abduction suspect was at road's end on remote Texas peninsula









South Carolina state trooper arrested after dashcam video captures shooting of unarmed man
















Suspected ghost captured on video walking through chainlink fences in New Mexico









Alexandria friends, neighbors cite Hannah Graham's wit, intelligence









D.C. officer wounded in southeast shooting; one man killed, another wounded









NIH in Bethesda to treat US doctor exposed to Ebola virus









With Jesse Matthew in custody, challenges remain in search for Hannah Graham





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

