Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance could be linked to 10 violent crimes against women in Virginia since 2002  - NY Daily News 

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance could be linked to 10 violent crimes against women in Virginia since 2002  - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs               Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance could be linked to 10 violent crimes against women in Virginia since 2002  The capture of Jesse Matthew, 32, in the case of the missing 18-year-old University of Virginia coed has authorities looking at the Charlottesville native in up to 10 rapes, murders and disappearances dating back to a rape allegation against the man 12 years ago. Matthew has only been charged in the Graham case, but officials have also linked him to a 2009 murder in Charlottesville and a 2005 rape in Fairfax.  BY   Sasha Goldstein     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Wednesday, October 1, 2014, 4:38 PM Updated: Thursday, October 2, 2014, 9:56 AM  A A A        Share this URL                         DaShad Laquinn Smith, 19 - 2012     
	He was last seen on Nov. 20, 2012 in Charlottesville, VA.
          Alexis Murphy, 17 - 2013     
	She was last seen on Aug. 3, 2013 in Lynchburg, VA.
          Samantha Ann Clarke, 19 - 2010     
	She was last seen on Sept. 13, 2010 in Orange County, VA. 
          Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 20 - 2014     
	She was last seen on Sept. 19, 2014 in Charlottesville, VA. 
          Morgan Dana Harrington, 20 - 2009     
	She was last seen on Oct. 17, 2009 in Charlottesville, VA. 
          Cassandra Ann Morton, 23 - 2009     
	She was last seen on Oct. 10, 2009 in Lynchburg, VA. 
          Unidentified - 2005     
	An unidentified woman was raped in Fairfax, VA.
          Sophie May Rivera, 31 - 2003      
	She was last seen on July 7, 2003 in Newport News, VA. 
          Autumn Wind Day, 24 - 2003     
	She was last seen on July 24, 2003 in Newport News, VA. 
          Unidentified - 2002     
	A fellow student at Liberty University accused Matthew of rape in 2002. 
    Jami Garrison/Getty Images 
Authorities are investigating whether previous abductions and rapes are connected.
   
	By the time authorities caught up with Jesse Matthew, huddled in a tent on a Texas beach, the man had fled 1,300 miles from where he was wanted in Virginia as the prime suspect in a college coed’s startling disappearance.

	Police have yet to find Hannah Graham, who vanished Sept. 13 in Charlottesville, and Matthew, caught on surveillance video early that morning with his arm around the teen’s shoulders, reportedly hasn’t cooperated with investigators.

	But the hulking 32-year-old’s arrest on an abduction with the intent to defile charge has allowed authorities to link Matthew to at least three other violent crimes against young women — and has officials around Virginia examining cold cases that contain startling similarities.

	In fact, Matthew’s name has come up in reexaminations of up to 10 rape, murder and disappearance cases across Virginia in the last 12 years, including the high profile 2009 murder of 20-year-old Morgan Harrington, also in Charlottesville, a Daily News review of local news reports found.

	“Since this most recent victim disappeared, I said time and again that if they could find out who was responsible there was a good chance the same person would be responsible for Morgan Harring and a number of others,” Clint Van Zandt, a former FBI profiler, told the Associated Press.

	Harrington, a Virginia Tech student from Roanoke, went missing after an October 2009 Metallica concert on the University of Virginia campus. Her remains were found three months later in rural Albemarle County. Forensic evidence has connected Matthew to the crime, law enforcement officials said this week.    David J. Phillip/AP Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., 32, has been charged only in the Graham case but is allegedly linked to other violent crimes.   

	That case remains unsolved, and DNA evidence of Harrington’s killer was matched to an unsolved 2005 rape in Fairfax, a Northern Virginia suburb of Washington, D.C., the FBI said in 2012.

	"I thought it seemed very similar to Morgan's situation, the question of her maybe being somewhat impaired and someone just picking her up," Harrington’s father, Dan Harrington, said on the “Today” show on Tuesday. "It really came to me about two weeks ago when I saw the picture (of Matthew) .... at that point I said, 'Oh my gosh, I think it's the same person.'"

	Once a stellar athlete, Matthew used his football prowess to earn a scholarship to Liberty University in Lynchburg, about 70 miles southwest of Charlottesville, in 2000. But he was booted from the team and expelled in 2002 after a fellow student accused him of rape, authorities told the AP.

	The dreadlocked suspect had charges dropped after the student “declined to move forward with prosecution,” according to the AP, and Matthew ended up leaving town for Christopher Newport University (CNU) in Newport News, a coastal community southeast of Richmond. There, Matthew attended school from January 2003 until withdrawing on October 15 of that year, WAVY-TV reported.

	During that time, two local women went missing.       findthemissing.org 
	Autumn Wind Day, 24, went missing while Matthew attended a Virginia university. Enlarge      findthemissing.org 
	Sophie May Rivera, 31, went missing two months after Day in 2003. Enlarge       
	Cassandra Morton, 23, went missing from Lynchburg, Va., in 2009. Matthew spent time in the city as a college student.  Enlarge   

	Autumn Wind Day, 24, vanished from a Food Lion two miles from the CNU campus on July 24, 2003. And on Sept. 7, 31-year-old Sophie May Rivera disappeared after leaving her home some seven miles from the university campus, according to the TV station.

	Neither woman has been seen since. Police plan to revisit the missing cases involving both women.

	“While there are no indications that Jesse Matthew is connected to these two cases, both will be reviewed,” Newport News police spokesman Lou Thurston told WAVY.

	Matthew, who spent a month on the CNU football team, left the squad five days after Rivera vanished. And he left school just a month later, according to CNU officials.

	“Students don’t usually leave in the second month of the semester or leave the football team within a month,” the university told the TV station in a statement this week. “However, federal student record privacy laws (FERPA) limit the information we can provide. The university is fully cooperating with law-enforcement agencies.”       Facebook 
	Hannah Graham, 18, is still missing, three weeks after she disappeared Sept. 13. Enlarge      AP 
	Morgan Harrington, 20, was killed in 2009 and her murder remains unsolved. Enlarge   

	It’s unclear where Matthew, a Charlottesville native, spent the next several years.

	But officials in Campbell County, west of Richmond, are taking a look at a possible link between Matthew and the murder of Lynchburg woman Cassandra Morton, 23, whose decomposing body was found in November 2009 on Candlers Mountain, The News & Advance of Lynchburg reported.

	The murder remains unsolved.

	"We had a conversation about that early on when we found out that he went to Liberty [University] and was familiar with the area," Campbell County Sheriff Steve Hutcherson told the newspaper.

	Around that same time, Harrington vanished from Charlottesville. And there are at least three other missing young women from the Charlottesville area from approximately the same time period. Samantha Ann Clarke, 19, disappeared from Orange County, just north of Charlottesville, in September 2010, while DaShad Laquinn Smith, 19, disappeared from Charlottesville in November 2012, WUSA-TV reported.    Galveston County Sheriff's Office Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. is due in court Thursday.   

	Alexis Murphy, 17, has been missing from Lynchburg in August of 2013, WUSA-TV reported, but another man, Randy Taylor was convicted of the girl’s murder this May, despite the fact that her body has never been found.

	Prosecutors said after Matthew’s arrest that there is “certainly no evidence at this time” that Matthew was involved.

	“If such evidence is discovered, Nelson County authorities along with the FBI and the Virginia State Police will act immediately," Anthony Martin, the Commonwealth’s Attorney for Nelson County, said in a statement.

	Matthew was working as a taxi driver in Charlottesville by 2010, WVIR-TV reported. And in August 2012, he was hired to work for the U. Va. Medical Center. He’s since been fired from that job.

	Matthew has only been charged in the Graham case.      

	But Harrington’s mother, who started a non-profit called “Save the Next Girl” after her daughter’s death, thinks there might be something to the theory that Matthew could be a serial killer or serial rapist.

	"If you look at the map and place the many missing or murdered young women in our area, it is a startling graphic," Gil Harrington told CNN last week. "I mean it’s a scatter pattern of loss. And either it’s a cluster phenomena or to me — to my eyes it’s not unlikely that some of it, at least, is attributable to one top-tier predator."

	Matthew is scheduled for a bond hearing on Thursday.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE FOR VIDEO

With News Wire Services

sgoldstein@nydailynews.com    Related Stories    Suspect linked to UVA student’s disappearance also tied to similar case: report          Search continues for Hannah Graham despite suspect’s arrest          UVA abduction suspect complains about jail bed           Texas woman recalls moment she locked eyes with UVA suspect          Man accused of abducting UVA student appears in Texas court          Police arrest Jesse Leroy Matthew in case of missing UVA student          Cops charge Jesse Matthew with abducting missing UVA student          Home of man seen with missing UVa student searched again          Man seen with missing UVA student wanted for reckless driving            


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In             
Crime Video


    Editor's Picks      NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.       Police and family look for missing Utah woman        Utah police are looking for a 30-year-old woman who went mysteriously missing late last month. Kayelyn "Kiki" Louder, of Murray, was last seen on surveillance video leaving her condominium on September 27 in a tank top and shorts, according to local media.       President of Kazakhstan’s rich nephew wants $55K a month for Plaza pad       A wealthy nephew of Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev who allegedly bilked on millions of dollars in maintenance fees for his sprawling four-bedroom apartment at the Plaza Hotel now wants to lease the unit for $55,000 a month.       

         COLD CASES  & TRUE CRIME        Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray A PECULIAR ITEM recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers.        Rooney's wife slain by lover Carolyn Mitchell  was one of those girls who seemed destined to make headlines. And did she ever.
        Justice Story: John du Pont The 1856 British Guiana one-cent magenta is a tiny octagonal red inch-wide stamp. Philatelic experts say that when it is auctioned at Sotheby’s in New York on June 17, this singular postal artifact is expected to fetch something around $20 million, the largest price ever paid for a stamp. By weight and size, it may be the most valuable object in the world. The stamp is just one souvenir of the strange legacy of John E. du Pont, a man who had everything money could buy but threw it away in one moment of blind violence.        Justice Story: Vampire king At more than 300 pounds and with dreadlocks cascading past his waist, Marcus Wesson, 57, was not what people generally think of when they hear the word “vampire.”        Justice Story: Deadly mother-in-law A Chicago undertaker summoned to a physician’s office took one look at a corpse on an exam table and diagnosed what should have been clear to the doctor.      Previous Next          Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     2   Seattle woman attacked by bridesmaids over hot dog: cops     3   Sister of alleged Pa. cop-killer calls on him to give up     4   Georgia teenager killed after high school football game     5   Man who beheaded Timothy McLean in 2008 may go free one day     6   Mass. woman stashed drugs under butt enhancer: police     7   Man kills friend for 'poking' girlfriend on Facebook         8   Wash. shop owner killed chasing down shoplifters      9   Conn. high school staff covered up student-teacher sex scandal: cops      10   Slur sparked outrage in murder of woman in Bali hotel room: suspect          1   Man who beheaded Timothy McLean in 2008 may go free one day     2   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     3   Georgia teenager killed after high school football game     4   Mass. woman stashed drugs under butt enhancer: police     5   DMV chief's son caught drunk driving: cops      6   Texas woman, 34, who posed as 15-year-old high school student released from jail      7   Army major, wife charged with brutal abuse of adopted kids                


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      