Arrest site for Hannah Graham abduction suspect was at road's end on remote Texas peninsula | WJLA.com 
Arrest site for Hannah Graham abduction suspect was at road's end on remote Texas peninsula | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Arrest site for Hannah Graham abduction suspect was at road's end on remote Texas peninsula

By Suzanne Kennedy, Tom Roussey

			September 25, 2014 - 08:10 pm Updated: September 26, 2014 - 05:28 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



GILCHRIST, Texas (AP/ABC) - If Virginia kidnap suspect Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. was looking to hide from authorities, he picked what would seem to be a good spot with the remote Bolivar Peninsula, a finger of Gulf of Mexico barrier sand and scrub vegetation barely above sea level.
Continue reading


The Texas woman who spotted Jesse Matthew on the b



















Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. is escorted into a courtroom for an appearance before a magistrate. (AP photo)



More on this story


Bar owner: Graham incapacitated when she walked away with Matthew

Police still have 'no idea' where Graham is

Commonwealth's Attorney: Matthew was suspect in 2002 alleged rape

Matthew held without bond in Texas



The island's beaches have served as a hiding spot for centuries: graves from one of the Houston area's most notorious mass slayings and a haven for the famed French pirate Jean Lafitte.
"We seem to be the end of the road," Sheriff Henry Trochesset said.
Matthew was arrested Wednesday evening as a suspect in the abduction of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. He waived extradition Thursday in Galveston.
His arrest - initially for refusing to identify himself to authorities - came after a phone tip from a resident who saw the 6-foot-2, 270-pound man with dreadlocks and recognized him from TV. A deputy then spotted him camped out on the beach.
The tipster, who asked to be identified only as Karen, said she was sitting on the tailgate of her truck, looking at the waves, when a car drove towards her on the beach.
Then she said, "He hit the brakes, throwing up sand and looked at me. He leaned over the console and stared. It was frightening."
That's because Karen said in those few seconds she made the connection between the man looking at her, and the face in the mugshot that has been circulating nationwide since Graham's disappearance.
"I instantly knew it was him," she said.
It's not uncommon to see random tents on the barren beaches, nor for sheriff's deputies to encounter people who don't want to identify themselves, Trochesset said.
"We get lots of weird folks," Rob Faupel, 45, a local air conditioning technician, said. "It seems like a good place to seek refuge. It's kind of remote."
Only one road leads to the peninsula from the mainland to the east, a two-lane state highway south of Interstate 10 that ends at the Gulf of Mexico and heads west toward Galveston. Repeated storms wiped out the old highway Texas 87 that bordered the seashore and led to Port Arthur and Beaumont at the far southeast corner of the state. Motorists coming from Galveston and Houston must take a 20-minute ferry ride across Galveston Bay.
As far as the campers, beach maintenance crew member Cliff Reichel said, "We don't bother them unless they flat out are doing something wrong."
Reichel, 62, of Galveston, recalled one woman who was noteworthy because she had puppets on stakes outside her tent. She stayed for five months, then abruptly left.
"You get people who stay a month at a time, a week at a time," his partner, Jacob Huffstetler, 25, of nearby High Island, added.
Becky Sosa, who works at Miss Nancy's Bait Camp in Gilchrist not far from the beach, agreed that Matthew might have easily gone unnoticed.
"He would fit right in," said the 54-year-old Sosa. "We get some strange ones that come through here. Some have stayed. It's like a magnet."
She thought it was possible that Matthew had bought cigarettes from her on Tuesday, but she couldn't be sure because it was a busy day with fishing customers. "I would have thought nothing about it," she added.
In the early 1970s, authorities recovered seven bodies from a Bolivar beach at High Island, one of three mass graves used by serial killer Dean Corll. His 28-victim killing spree ended when accomplice Elmer Wayne Henley Jr. killed him in August 1973.
"It's kind of scary," Jill Howard, 56, of Arlington, said, recalling the infamous killings while walking the beach Thursday with her stepdaughter. But she said she could understand how someone trying to avoid capture would head out to "this beach out in the boonies."


Read More:
Virginia, 
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
University Of Virginia, 
Missing Student, 
Abduction, 
Kidnapping, 
Texas, 
Disappearance








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Jesse Matthew, suspect in Hannah Graham abduction, heading back to Virginia



Former Prince George's Co. police officer charged with sex offenses found dead



Prosecutors drop felony charges against NIH cop, alleged victim 'outraged'












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Hannah Graham kidnap suspect Jesse Matthew being held without bond in Texas









Police: Man beheaded woman at Okla. food plant, was trying to convert co-workers to Islam
















South Carolina state trooper arrested after dashcam video captures shooting of unarmed man









Arrest site for Hannah Graham abduction suspect was at road's end on remote Texas peninsula









Suspected ghost captured on video walking through chainlink fences in New Mexico









'Daily Show' airs controversial Redskins segment









Commonwealth's Attorney: Jesse Matthew was suspect in 2002 campus rape investigation while at Libert





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

