Hannah Graham's parents issue plea for information: 'Somebody knows where Hannah is' | WJLA.com 
Hannah Graham's parents issue plea for information: 'Somebody knows where Hannah is' | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Hannah Graham's parents issue plea for information: 'Somebody knows where Hannah is'

By The Associated Press, ABC 7 News

			October 4, 2014 - 12:45 pm Updated: October 5, 2014 - 02:20 am
		


















Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP/WJLA) - Noting their heart-wrenching wait for answers, the parents of a missing University of Virginia student appealed Saturday for whoever is responsible for her disappearance three weeks ago to help them find their daughter.
Continue reading





Hannah Graham. (AP Photo)



More on this story


Hannah Graham search



Sue and John Graham, whose 18-year-old daughter Hannah disappeared on Sept. 13, issued a written and videotaped statement describing the case as a nightmare and noting that despite thousands of tips from the public, the college sophomore has not been found.
"Somebody listening to me today either knows where Hannah is, or knows someone who has that information. We appeal to you to come forward and tell us where Hannah can be found," Sue Graham said in the taped statement. "John has already said that this is every parent's worst nightmare ... Please, please, please help end this nightmare for all of us. Please help us to bring Hannah home."
Both parents wore blue collared shirts, along with buttons bearing their daughter's picture and orange ribbons. Sue Graham took deep breaths and read her statement with a shaky voice, fighting tears as her husband put his arm around her several times.
Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., a former college football lineman and sometime cab driver, has been charged with "abduction with intent to defile" in the disappearance. Police say forensic evidence also connects the 32-year-old Charlottesville man to the 2009 slaying of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student.
The Grahams thanked the investigators as well as members of the public who have offered support.
A search team of about 110 people including law enforcement officers and trained volunteers was combing through fields and countryside around Charlottesville on Saturday. Searchers have been out every day since the student was reported missing Sept. 14.
Mark Eggeman, search and rescue coordinator for the Virginia Department of Emergency Management, said his team was focusing on 200 square miles surrounding downtown Charlottesville and had covered just under half of that ground. A law enforcement computer mapping specialist has been brought in to help the team piece together the areas it has covered into a master planning map.
"It's a lot about just trying to connect dots," he said.
A plane was taking high definition images on Saturday of areas on the west and east sides of town, which will then be scanned and analyzed with computer software. An unmanned drone was used earlier in the week to survey an area where power lines would have made it difficult to fly a plane or helicopter.
Despite the technology, the backbone of the search is still the officers trudging through fields and walking along creek beds.
"It still takes boots on the ground," said Eggeman, who's been involved in search and rescue for 30 years. "Despite what you see on CSI, and everything else, you still have to do it the old fashioned way."
Uniformed officers riding ATVs were seen combing farmland earlier this week, checking fence lines and a well. They've also ventured into some mountainous terrain, but investigators decline to share specifics about exactly where they are focusing.
With archery hunting season for deer starting Saturday, hunters also have been asked to be alert for any signs of Graham. Authorities also have asked farmers and property owners to check their land. Searchers have gotten over 3,500 tips, which are screened by detectives for usefulness. The tip line number is 434-295-3851.
Asked how long the search would continue, Eggeman said that searchers wouldn't consider stopping until they've met their objectives and that the decision would ultimately be led by Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo.
Eggeman also was involved in the search for Harrington. Hundreds of volunteers helped search for that woman, and her remains were eventually found by a farmer inspecting his property about three months after she went missing. The field was in the rugged foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains about 10 miles from the concert venue she disappeared from.
Morgan Harrington's father, Dan, said earlier this week that while the arrest of Matthew did offer some hope of solving the women's disappearances, the search for Hannah was the most important aspect of the investigation.
"We need to find Hannah," he said in an interview at his home in the Roanoke area.
He said that he and his wife have offered their support to the Grahams but haven't spoken directly with them, noting that with grief "everybody does this differently."
He said awaiting developments in a missing person case is extremely trying. "You get to the point where you don't have many expectations," he said.
 
Statement from Sue and John Graham Regarding the Ongoing Search for their Daughter Hannah, October 4, 2014: 
"My name is Sue Graham. At my side is my husband John. As you know we are Hannah's parents. I will now read a brief statement.
"Firstly, we would like again to express our enormous gratitude to all those who have been involved in the search for Hannah, including the police, the professional search teams, the people staffing the telephone tip line, UVa students, our friends, neighbours and work colleagues as well as the citizens of Charlottesville and the surrounding area.
"We would also like to thank the many, many kind people who have supported our family during this terrible ordeal through words, deeds, thoughts and prayers. We also owe our sincere thanks to the City of Charlottesville, the University of Virginia and the concerned citizens who have contributed a total of $100,000 to the reward which is being offered for information leading to Hannah's return. We have been overwhelmed by the generosity of you all.
"As you are all aware, an individual has been charged with the abduction of our beloved daughter Hannah. However, despite extensive search efforts, no trace of Hannah has been found since she disappeared in the early hours of Saturday September the 13th, now more than three weeks ago.
"The police have received thousands of tips, and to each one of you who made the effort to call in with information, we express our heartfelt thanks. We also thank all of you who have actively searched your properties and reported the results to the police. However, despite all your efforts, Hannah is still missing.
"Somebody listening to me today either knows where Hannah is, or knows someone who has that information. We appeal to you to come forward and tell us where Hannah can be found. John has already said that this is every parent's worst nightmare. That is true, but it is also a nightmare for our son, James, for Hannah's grandparents and other members of our family, as well as for all of Hannah's many friends here in Charlottesville and beyond.
"Please, please, please help end this nightmare for all of us. Please help us to bring Hannah home.
"Thank you."


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Morgan Harrington, 
Jesse Matthew, 
L.J. Matthew, 
A. Scott Bolden, 
Newstalk, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Virginia, 
Missing Student, 
University Of Virginia








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Vigil held for Six Flags America assault victim, now out of a coma



8-year-old boy, 2 young men shot in Northeast D.C.



Anti-Hindu graffiti in Loudoun County prompts police investigation, community meeting












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Ebola ruled out for 2 patients in isolation at D.C.-area hospitals; 1 has malaria









Legal expert: Hannah Graham feared dead, Jesse Matthew's silence suggests involvement
















How to watch the Washington Nationals playoff games on TV









What is Ebola? How does it spread? Who is at risk?









Well-known D.C. bartender, Joe Madden, thought to have gone missing turns up in New Orleans









Enterovirus: How parents can tell if your child is sick









Police arrest Bowie murder suspect with tattoo-laden face





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

