Search and rescue teams, canine units continue search for Hannah Graham | WJLA.com 
Search and rescue teams, canine units continue search for Hannah Graham | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Search and rescue teams, canine units continue search for Hannah Graham

By The Associated Press, Richard Reeve

			September 27, 2014 - 04:05 pm Updated: September 27, 2014 - 08:14 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) - With a suspect in the abduction of an 18-year-old woman back in the state, a search and rescue team worked with canine units Saturday trying to find the University of Virginia sophomore who vanished more than two weeks ago.   
Continue reading


Jesse Matthew leaves Galveston
















More on this story


Alexandria friends, neighbors cite Hannah Graham's wit, intelligence

Matthew arrested on remote Texas peninsula, haven for pirates, fugitives for centuries

Prosecutor: Matthew suspected in '02 rape



"We already have boots on the ground working," said Mark Eggeman, search and rescue coordinator for the Virginia Department of Emergency Management. "We have maintained a presence on the scene searching every day since this happened. We have not stopped searching."
Hannah Graham was reported missing Sept. 14, the day after the northern Virginia woman was captured by surveillance videos as she walked unaccompanied in Charlottesville's Downtown Mall. Police have identified Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., a hospital worker, as the last person to be seen with Graham early on the morning of Sept. 13.   
Matthew was returned from Texas late Friday after he was found on a beach near Galveston. He is being held without bond at the Charlottesville-Albemarle Regional Jail.
Matthew, 32, is expected to make his first court appearance on Thursday to face a charge of abduction with intent to defile - or sexually molest.
While Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo has encouraged residents of his city of 40,000 and beyond to be aware of any sign of Graham, the team directed by Eggeman brings special skills in its search for her. They are trained, for instance, to detect signs of human movement.
"You're looking for signs of passage, you're looking for the very subtle things that most people who are not trained to do this will walk right past," Eggeman said.
The team includes volunteers often called in by the state to look for lost hunters or wayward elders. Others taking part include members of the Albemarle County Sheriff's Office. The searchers number about 20 and include about half as many canine units.
Eggeman said the focus of the search is based on investigative leads. He declined to state precisely where searchers were looking Saturday other than to say south of the city in Albemarle County.
"There's a lot of ground to cover," he said, calling the search part marathon, part process of elimination.
Last weekend, more than 1,200 volunteers searched Charlottesville. The search area has widened to the rolling hills outside of Charlottesville.
To supplement the professional searchers, Longo has encouraged area residents to search their property for any signs of Graham. He also asked real estate agents to search vacant properties.
Longo acknowledged that hope of finding Graham dims the more time passes, but he said he remains hopeful.
As for Eggeman, he too remains hopeful as leads continue to pour into Charlottesville investigators. Longo has said more than 1,600 tips have come in.
"Every day there's new information, there's a new lead," Eggeman said. "It's like building blocks, it's one thing leads to another.
"As long as they have things to pursue, we will continue to search."
(Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.)
9/27/2014 1:15:49 PM (GMT -4:00)


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
UVA, 
UVa., 
University Of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, 
Virginia, 
NewsChannel 8








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Marcus McCurdy charged with spying on woman in Toys-R-Us restroom stall in Glen Burnie



Alexandria friends, neighbors cite Hannah Graham's wit, intelligence



D.C. officer wounded in southeast shooting; one man killed, another wounded












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Arrest site for Hannah Graham abduction suspect was at road's end on remote Texas peninsula









South Carolina state trooper arrested after dashcam video captures shooting of unarmed man
















Suspected ghost captured on video walking through chainlink fences in New Mexico









Alexandria friends, neighbors cite Hannah Graham's wit, intelligence









D.C. officer wounded in southeast shooting; one man killed, another wounded









NIH in Bethesda to treat US doctor exposed to Ebola virus









With Jesse Matthew in custody, challenges remain in search for Hannah Graham





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

