New details, videos emerge in case of missing University of Virginia student - NY Daily News 

New details, videos emerge in case of missing University of Virginia student - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             New details, videos emerge in case of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, 18, disappeared while walking in downtown Charlottesville. New surveillance footage shows her strolling, then running.  BY   Deborah Hastings   NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Wednesday, September 17, 2014, 5:32 PM  A A A        Share this URL                   
	New video and eyewitness accounts have helped authorities in Charlottesville to document the steps of 18-year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, who disappeared in the wee hours of Saturday.

	Alcohol most likely played a role in the girl becoming lost and disoriented, Charlottesville Police Capt. Gary Pleasants said Wednesday.  The girl may have been been vulnerable and unable to protect herself because of drinking.

	A text sent to a friend at 1:20 a.m. suggested Graham had become lost while walking in the downtown area.      WTVR New video and eye witness accounts have helped authorities in Charlottesville to document the steps of 18-year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.    WTVR New video and eye witness accounts have helped authorities in Charlottesville to document the steps of 18-year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.    WTVR New video and eye witness accounts have helped authorities in Charlottesville to document the steps of 18-year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.    Previous Next       Enlarge  

	A new eyewitness report places the teen at an outdoor mall around 1 a.m., Pleasants said. A few minutes later she was seen on tape running near a Shell gas station, but there does not appear to be anyone behind her.

	The student had dinner Friday night with friends and left the restaurant about 11 p.m., Pleasants told reporters.    Charlottesville Police Department Hannah  Graham, 18, is seen in surveillance video leaving her off-campus apartment Friday night. The University of Virginia student disappeared in the early morning hours of Saturday.   

	At about 12:45 a.m. she was seen outside a bar in the downtown area, but did not go in, he said.

	Her last text, about 30 minutes later, did not sound as if Graham was upset or felt she was in danger, he said.    Facebook Police and K9 units were searching Charlottsville on Wednesday for Hannah Graham, 18, a University of Virginia student who went missing Saturday.   

	She was reported missing Sunday by her family, who had not heard from her over the weekend. The student lived in an off-campus apartment with three roommates.

	"Right now there's nothing that points to anything criminal. However, we're obviously not discounting anything," Pleasants said.      Ryan M. Kelly/AP Members of the  Albemarle County Sheriff’s Department are part of a massive search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.    Facebook Hannah Graham, a missing University of Virginia student, was likely under the influence of alcohol and may have been 'vulnerable and unable to defend herself,' Charlottesville police said Wednesday.    Ryan M. Kelly/AP A member of the Albemarle County Sheriff’s Search and Rescue Division checks inside parked cars for signs of Hannah Graham, 18, a missing University of Virginia student.    Previous Next       Enlarge  

	Graham is 5 feet, 11 inches tall and has blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. She was last seen wearing black slacks and a gold-and-black crop top.

With News Wire Services

On a mobile device? Click here to see the video.    Related Stories  Police release photos of missing UVA student       Police searching for missing University of Virginia student          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog       7   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      8   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     9   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     10   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      