WDBJ7: Hannah Graham Search 
WDBJ7: Hannah Graham Search





Back To Top









Roanoke
70° F
Partly Cloudy









« Home


Search


Select a section


Latest News
Alerts Signup
Contests
Entertainment
Events
Irresistible
Slideshows
Health
Hometown Wheels
Life
Live Streaming
National News
Sports
Traffic
Video
Weather
Yard Sales













BREAKING NEWS





UPDATE: Marriage certificates to same-sex couples can now be issued









        Severe Weather



                
                        No counties under advisory
                    










Hannah Graham Search News









Charlottesville Police/WTVR


Parents of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham release statement 

The parents of missing University of Virginia student have released a statement. Hannah Graham has been missing since the early morning hours of September 13th.




Search for Hannah Graham extends into northern Nelson County



UPDATE: Jesse Matthew's reckless driving hearing continued to Dec. 1



Sexual assault investigated while Matthew was student at Christopher Newport University



UVA student starting program that would walk students around grounds



UVA student speaks out about Jesse Matthew 



Matthew arrest prompts renewed look at 2009 Campbell County murder



State police say forensic evidence link between suspect in Graham disappearance and Morgan Harrington case



UPDATE: Jesse Matthew back in Charlottesville



Owner of popular restaurant in Charlottesville says staff served Jesse Matthew 



Jesse Matthew arrest shocks Texas community



Jesse Matthew suspect in alleged rape at Liberty University 











VIDEO









We're hearing the emotional plea from Hannah Graham's mother in a recorded statement she made earlier today.


Graham Family Speaks

We're hearing the emotional plea from Hannah Graham's mother in a recorded statement she made earlier today.




Statement from Hannah Graham's parents



Hunters asked to help in search for Hannah Graham.



Investigators follow new lead in Hannah Graham search



Virginia Tech aids Graham search with drone technology



Program helps UVA students get home safe



Investigators re-examining unsolved cases



Hannah Graham investigation continues in Albermarle County



Investigators looking to unsolved Campbell County murder



UVA Student speaks out about Jesse Matthew



Forensic link that connected Jesse Matthew to Harrington



Search to find Hannah Graham continues in Albemarle County











SLIDESHOWS









Chris Hurst/WDBJ7


PHOTOS: Oct. 2 search for Hannah Graham

Investigators are searching for Hannah Graham in northern Nelson County on Thursday, October 2, 2014.




TIMELINE: Link between Jesse Matthew, Morgan Harrington, Hannah Graham



PHOTOS: Missing UVA student Hannah Elizabeth Graham



PHOTOS: Jesse Matthew arrives in Charlottesville



PHOTOS: Jesse Matthew's campsite in Texas















Trending











PHOTOS: Virginia Science Festival in Blacksburg

The Virginia Science Festival was held in Blacksburg on Oct. 4, 2014 at Virginia Tech. Hands-on experiments and interactive demonstrations were designed to get those of all ages excited about science.










PHOTOS: Virginia Tech vs. North Carolina

Pictures from Virginia Tech's 34-17 win over North Carolina on Saturday, October 4, 2014.(Photos; Mike Bell/WDBJ7)










PHOTOS: I-581 multi-vehicle accident

A multi-vehicle accident caused major backups Thursday on I-581 South.










PHOTOS: WeatherFest in Blacksburg

WeatherFest was held in Blacksburg on Oct. 4, 2014 at Virginia Tech. The event is part of the Virginia Science Festival. People of all ages had fun participating in demonstrations, playing games and taking pictures with the WDBJ7 crew.








Jeff Christensen/Reuters


Celebrity odd couples

We all love our celebrities, especially when they pair up. But sometimes their tastes when it comes to matters of the heart can leave us scratching our heads.








August0802/iStock


Most underrated/overrated jobs of 2014

Find out what jobs are the most underrated in 2014. And which ones aren't all they're cracked up to be.








www.paulrevereandtheraiders.com


Notable deaths of 2014

From legendary actors to fashion designers, take a look at the most notable deaths of 2014.










TIMELINE: Link between Jesse Matthew, Morgan Harrington, Hannah Graham

On Monday, September 29, 2014, Virginia State Police confirmed a forensic link between Jesse Matthew, the suspect in the disappearance of Hannah Graham, and the Morgan Harrington case.










UPDATE: Marriage certificates to same-sex couples can now be issued

The Supreme Court has turned away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit same-sex marriages, paving the way for an immediate expansion of gay and lesbian unions.








Rob Chewning/WDBJ7


UPDATE: Route 24 tractor-trailer wreck cleared in Bedford County

A Bedford County tractor-trailer wreck is causing delays on Route 24 on Monday morning.








Charlottesville Police/WTVR


Parents of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham release statement 

The parents of missing University of Virginia student have released a statement. Hannah Graham has been missing since the early morning hours of September 13th.










Christiansburg man dies in crash in southwestern Montana 

A 31-year-old Virginia man died when the pickup truck he was driving collided with a semitrailer in southwestern Montana.










Warmer temperatures with a few showers this afternoon

We'll start off with a mix of sun and clouds, but then more clouds roll in this afternoon. We could see a few scattered showers in the western mountains later today.










Few Virginia schools participate in new meal program

Few public schools in Virginia are participating in a new federal meal program for students.










Jim Justice to be grand marshal for Marshall University's parade

The Greenbrier resort's owner and his family will be the grand marshals for Marshall University's homecoming parade.










One man shot near Hillsville

A man from Fries is recovering in a Roanoke hospital after he was shot outside a convenience store.










Mom turns child's insults into a viral video

A mother documents the "hilarious" ways her 4-year-old child insults her in a viral video that some find cute, but others find obnoxious.










I-77 Crash Follow-Up

Two rival Lynchburg football teams are setting aside their differences on the field to honor lives gone too soon.










Danville Museum asks city to take down Confederate flag

The Danville Museum's board of directors is asking the city to take down a confederate flag. It flies on the front lawn of the Danville Museum of Fine Arts and History which is inside the Sutherlin Mansion and owned by the city.










Danville owes Tobacco Commission $2 million

Incentives given to two businesses in Danville have backfired on the city. Neither company met standards set by the Tobacco Commission. Now the city has to pay back two million dollars!











Latest Slideshows











America's most charitable states




Same-sex marriage by state



The search for missing Flight 370



The Nobel Prize: Fast facts



Athletes who became politicians



On this day: October 6



Most underrated/overrated jobs of 2014



More
















« Home


Search


Select a section


Latest News
Alerts Signup
Contests
Entertainment
Events
Irresistible
Slideshows
Health
Hometown Wheels
Life
Live Streaming
National News
Sports
Traffic
Video
Weather
Yard Sales











© 2014, WDBJ Television, Inc.


In association with:







 Privacy Policy |  Terms of Service




View full site

































Close









Reset Session - Logout/Re-attempt Sign In
Close




You are logged out
Your profile has been deleted.
Close





Please set an email address for your profile


                                No email address was supplied by
                                .
                                To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
                            

                                Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
                            
Email



Save and Close
Cancel






Personalize Profile

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.

Display Name




Zip Code




Submit
Cancel








