Vigil held in Charlottesville for missing UVA student Hannah Graham | Latest News - WDBJ7.com Central and Southwest VA 
Vigil held in Charlottesville for missing UVA student Hannah Graham | Latest News - WDBJ7.com Central and Southwest VA





Back To Top









Roanoke
70° F
Partly Cloudy









« Home


Search


Select a section


Latest News
Alerts Signup
Contests
Entertainment
Events
Irresistible
Slideshows
Health
Hometown Wheels
Life
Live Streaming
National News
Sports
Traffic
Video
Weather
Yard Sales













                                Advertisement











Latest News




Vigil held in Charlottesville for missing UVA student Hannah Graham

            By  Frankie Jupiter, fjupiter@wdbj7.comDavid Kaplan, dkaplan@wdbj7.com

Published On: Sep 15 2014 11:25:56 AM EDT

Updated On: Sep 18 2014 11:18:59 PM EDT
















Hannah Graham went missing early Saturday morning.  There is now a $50,000 reward for any information about her possible location


CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. - 
A vigil for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham was held Thursday night in Charlottesville.The 18- year-old hasn't been seen since new surveillance footage placed her on the downtown mall in Charlottesville early Saturday morning."I feel like its hope that we can find her. Hope that everything is okay and hope that we can find her. And support is also a big thing," said student Alicia Saunders.University of Virginia students held onto hope during the vigil. With candles lit, they are hoping to light the way for Hannah's safe return."I'm just really glad the school is hosting the event. It's a way to bring us all together and remind us to keep hope and not give up that she will be found," said Audrey Lamont.Reminders of things close to Hannah could be seen all around, like her favorite flavor of Starburst. Students also shared some of their moments they've had with Hannah, and their anticipation of her return.With every new piece of information, which means we're getting more hopeful and closer and closer of bring her home. And that really what it's all about is coming together as a community and be excited and kind of celebrating that hope to bring her home," said student council president Jalen Ross. ===========================Charlottesville police have released information about a person of interest in the Hannah Graham disappearance case.Investigators are looking for a black male between 5'10" and 5'11", 250-285 pounds, with a closely shaved head and a goatee. He is described as being in his late 20s or early 30s, and wearing black jeans and a white T-shirt.Graham was last seen early Saturday morning on surveillance video.In this surveillance video, a man is seen following Graham in the Downtown Mall area. That man told investigators he was following Graham because she looked upset. But before he could catch up with her, a second man stopped Graham, put his arm around her, and started talking to her.That witness gave investigators a description of the person of interest.Anyone with information regarding the whereabouts of Hannah Graham should call (434) 295-3851. A $50,000 reward is being offered. A search for Graham will take place this weekend. Click here for more information. A candlelight vigil for Graham will be held at 9 p.m. Thursday at the UVA amphitheatre.Here is the news release from the Charlottesville Police Department:The Charlottesville Police Department has released the description of a man a witness identified as having contact with Hannah Elizabeth Graham the night she disappeared. This person is described as a black male, 5’10”-5’11”, 250-285 pounds, close shaved head, goatee, with a slight ‘beer belly’. He is described as being in his late 20’s-early 30’s and wearing black jeans and a white t-shirt. He was seen with Ms. Graham in the 3-500 blocks of E. Main St. on the Downtown Mall in the City of Charlottesville around 1-1:15 am on September 13th (Friday night/Saturday morning). He is a person of interest and if anyone has any information on him or saw him this night, please call the tip line. The number is: (434) 295-3851.Here is the other news release from the Charlottesville Police Department:As with some past missing person's cases, the City of Charlottesville is offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to the cause of the disappearance of 18 year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham.In addition to this money from the City of Charlottesville, the University of Virginia is also offering $10,000 and some local individuals and businesses have come forward wishing to contribute funds to a reward. The total reward being offered at this time, with all contributions, is $50,000. Anyone with information regarding the whereabouts of Hannah Graham should call the special tip line which is (434) 295-3851.
Gallery




PHOTOS: Missing UVA student Hannah Elizabeth Graham








Latest News




PHOTOS: Missing UVA student Hannah Elizabeth Graham














Back
Next









The Copley Bridge in Charlottesville where Morgan Harrington was last seen. It also is the site of the Hannah Graham mural of hope. This picture was taken Monday.



The Copley Bridge in Charlottesville where Morgan Harrington was last seen. It also is the site of the Hannah Graham mural of hope. This picture was taken Monday.



These are the clothes that Hannah Elizabeth Graham were wearing the night she went missing.



These are the clothes that Hannah Elizabeth Graham were wearing the night she went missing.



The Charlottesville Police Department is searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. She was last heard from early Saturday morning.



The Charlottesville Police Department is searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. She was last heard from early Saturday morning.



The Charlottesville Police Department is searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. She was last heard from early Saturday morning.



The Charlottesville Police Department is searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. She was last heard from early Saturday morning.



The Charlottesville Police Department is searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. She was last heard from early Saturday morning.



The Charlottesville Police Department is searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. She was last heard from early Saturday morning.



Surveillance video shows missing woman Hannah Graham



WDBJ7 obtained surveillance video of what appears to be Hannah Graham walking in downtown Charlottesville. The video was taken at 1:08 a.m. September 13 from Tuel's Jewelers at 319 E. Main Street in Charlottesville.



Surveillance video taken early Saturday morning of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.







The Charlottesville Police Department released this surveillance video of Hannah Graham walking by Sal's Pizza early Saturday morning in downtown Charlottesville.

















==============The man Charlottesville Police say two surveillance videos show following missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham the night she disappeared came to the police station and talked to investigators Wednesday night.He claims he was following her through the downtown pedestrian mall because she looked distressed. Before he could reach her, he says another man came up to her, put his arm around her and talked to her. The witness claims the other man was either trying to help Graham, or she knew him.Click here to see the video.Here is the news release from the Charlottesville Police Department:The Charlottesville Police Department has obtained two videos showing the missing UVA student, Hannah Elizabeth Graham on the downtown pedestrian mall. The first is at 1:06 am taken from Sal’s Pizza located at 221 E. Main St. It shows a white male walking into the cameras view, he looks over his shoulder, then steps into a doorway and Ms. Graham walks past him. After she passes, the male starts walking behind her. The second video is at 1:08 am taken from a camera at Tuel’s Jewelers located at 319 E. Main St. The video shows Ms. Graham walking with the same white male some distance behind her.UPDATE: At 10:15 pm the unidentified white male in the videos came to the police department. He told police that he was following Ms. Graham as she looked to be somewhat physically distressed and he wanted to make sure she got safely to wherever she was going. Soon after he was following her, he said that a black male came up to her and put his arm around her, stopping her. Ms. Graham and this black male started speaking and it appeared to the witness that the black male was either known to Ms. Graham or was trying to help her. The witness then walked away and he said that Ms. Graham and the black male were still standing and talking when he left. The black male is not shown in either of these videos.============================A Charlottesville Police Lieutenant says new surveillance footage shows a man following 18-year-old Hannah Graham.The video hasn't been released yet. However, investigators say it shows Graham walking through downtown Charlottesville around 1 a.m. -- very close to the time Graham was last seen.============================The parents of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham fear foul play.Graham has not been seen since Saturday.At a news conference Wednesday, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo read a statement from Graham's parents, which stated that they fear foul play. Investigators also played two surveillance videos of Graham, 18, walking near Downtown Mall in Charlottesville.Longo said they have no evidence to suggest foul play in her disappearance.Longo became emotional while talking about the conversation he had Wednesday with Graham's parents."As a parent and as a husband, I can't imagine what they have been going through the past several days.," Longo said. "I cannot imagine a more horrifying set of circumstances for a mom or dad."Around 50 people have been interviewed as part of the investigation. Longo expressed frustration at the lack of tips that have been called in about the case.“So we're hoping that there were people on the mall. And I'm hoping that they are hearing my words and seeing my frustration and hearing the pain that this family is experiencing, and pick up the phone and tell us something -- regardless of how insignificant you think it might be,” Longo said.Investigators believe Graham had dinner with friends Friday night. At some point after dinner, police believe Graham lost her bearings. Surveillance video shows Graham walking near a gas station, and then running. Longo said it did not appear she was being chased because she slowed down to walk.Another video showed Graham walking outside of McGrady's Irish Pub.A variety of texts also indicated that Graham was lost.Longo confirmed that Graham had been drinking, but said she never actually made it inside of McGrady's Irish Pub.He also acknowledged similarities between the Graham disappearance and the Morgan Harrington case -- both young women disappeared near UVA.Investigators confirmed that they checked the area where Harrington's remains were found.A candlelight vigil for Graham will be held Thursday, 9 p.m., at the UVA amphitheatre.====================New surveillance video places missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham at Downtown Mall in Charlottesville around 1 a.m. Saturday, according to the Charlottesville Police Department.Investigators are looking to talk to anyone who was in the Downtown Mall area around 1 a.m. Saturday, or anyone business that may have surveillance video.The surveillance video was taken at a Shell Gas station near the Downtown Mall. It shows Graham walking, and then running. The video does not show anyone behind her. A witness told investigators that they saw Graham headed toward the Downtown Mall. Investigators are going door-to-door on Downtown Mall looking at surveillance video.A news conference will be held at 4 p.m. Wednesday. WDBJ7 plans to live stream the news conference.On Tuesday, investigators confirmed that Graham was seen outside of a bar on surveillance video at 12:46 a.m. The last anyone has heard from Graham was a text message with friends at 1:20 a.m. Saturday. The FBI is involved in the search.On Wednesday morning, University of Virginia President Teresa Sullivan issued a statement to students about Graham's disappearance. Sullivan talked about resources the school has made available, and urged students to maintain their regular schedules."Having structure in their day will help them in coping with uncertainty, and I hope that you will encourage your sons and daughters to stay on track. If your son or daughter seems to be in distress, do not hesitate to refer them to professional counseling if you believe it would be helpful for them," Sullivan wrote.Sullivan also wrote a message to alumni. Click here to read Sullivan's statements.WDBJ7’s Frankie Jupiter is in Charlottesville and will have more throughout the day.=====================Hannah Elizabeth Graham, the missing University of Virginia student who has not been heard from since Saturday, was spotted on surveillance video outside of a bar early Saturday morning, according to the Charlottesville Police Department.The 18-year-old was seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Irish Pub in Charlottesville at 12:46 a.m. She was last seen headed east in the 900 block of Grady Avenue.  The search has been extended to include that area.The FBI joined the search for Graham on Tuesday. Also Tuesday, the Albemarle County Sheriff's Office assisted with what they are calling a search and rescue effort."Last night we expanded our search about 25 to 30 blocks Right now we are focusing on another five to six block area which is outside of the zone we looked at last night," said Captain Guy Williams of the Albemarle County Sheriff's Office.The last anyone has heard from Graham was a text message at 1:20 a.m. Saturday morning. Graham is a second-year student at UVA and a member of the ski team.Graham's family issued a statement Tuesday saying they have been "heartbroken" since they learned she went missing. The family urged anyone with information to call the Charlottesville Police Department's tip line at 434-295-3851. The tip line will be staffed 24 hours a day.“Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends. She is highly responsible and organized," the family said.Click here to read the family's entire statement.===============The Charlottesville Police Department is searching for a missing University of Virginia student.The last anyone has heard from 18-year-old Hannah Elizabeth Graham was a text message she sent friends around 1:20 a.m. Saturday morning.Graham was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs, according to a statement on the University of Virginia’s website.Graham was reported missing to the Charlottesville Police Department around 4:30 p.m. Sunday.At least 30 people representing Virginia State Police, the Albemarle County Sheriff's Office and the Charlottesville Police Department are conducting a physical search in the general area off of Main Street in downtown Charlottesville.The majority of the search is happening in alleys and wooded areas, and along train tracks that run through downtown. The hope is that Hannah Graham could be in one of those areas away from plain view.Police say Graham had a lot to drink on Friday night, and that may have played a factor into her disappearance.In a statement, University of Virginia President Teresa Sullivan said she is “deeply concerned about the disappearance."That sentiment is echoed by the people who are searching for her.“Well we are, obviously. The fact that she hasn't been heard from since Friday night and that is not common for her, so yes, we're deeply concerned, and we're treating it as a missing person case right now,” Charlottesville Police Department Captain Gary Pleasants said.Pleasants did note that there's been no reason to suspect foul play at this point. Pleasant also said that she does not have a car and there's no reason to believe she got in a car with anyone at this point."We know she does not have a car, no indication that she got a ride that we are aware of, so that's really what we've got to go on right now," Pleasants said.Students on campus say this has all been a shock."My heart just broke because, I mean, it could have easily been me or just some other girl, or anyone really," freshman Selin Ulkautam said.  "I was terrified when I found out because I know it could have easily been me because I've walked home alone."The university notified students via email Monday morning."Everyone is overwhelmed that this could have happened to one of their classmates," junior Justin Morris said. "People go down this street every night, there's parties there all the time, there's always girls walking around."Anyone with information about Graham is asked to call the Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280. The Charlottesville Police Department says they have received 60 tips already.Click here to read the entire statement from the University of Virginia.The University of Virginia released this statement Monday about Graham:The members of the University of Virginia community are united in our deep concern for Hannah Elizabeth Graham, who is missing and has not been in touch with her family or friends since early Saturday morning. The Charlottesville Police Department is investigating this case, and has been conducting an extensive search since learning of Ms. Graham’s disappearance. Our University Police Department was notified of the report Sunday evening, and this morning has contacted all students, faculty and staff to make them aware of the situation. Our Office of Student Affairs has provided this information to parents as well.Anyone with information regarding Ms. Graham is asked to contact the Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or Crimestoppers at 434-977-4000. A photograph of Ms. Graham may be found at this link: http://www.virginia.edu/graham/. We are hopeful that someone will come forward soon with information that will lead the authorities to Ms. Graham.Here is the news release from the Charlottesville Police Department:On Sunday September 14th at 4:34 pm, the Charlottesville Police Department received a call of a missing 18 year old female UVA student. Hannah Elizabeth Graham was last seen Friday night/Saturday morning between midnight and 1am. On Sunday, her friends and family realized that none of them had seen or had contact with her since Friday night and a call was placed to the Emergency Communications Center by her friends, reporting her missing. The Charlottesville Police Department in turn notified the University of Virginia Police Department of the report. Charlottesville Police detectives responded immediately and have been working to find Hannah since learning of her disappearance. A search using a bloodhound was conducted Sunday evening, but that search did not turn up anything useful. She is approximately 5’11” with a slight build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and has freckles. She was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs and black pants (possibly jeans). If anyone has any information or has seen Hannah anytime from Friday night to the present, please call the Charlottesville Police Department at (434) 970-3280.



Copyright © 2014, WDBJ7












Related Content





Vigil held for missing University of Virginia student



Charlottesville release person of interest description



WEB EXTRA: Surveillance video of Hannah Graham walking by Charlottesville pizza shop



WEB EXTRA: Surveillance video of Hannah Graham walking outside of Charlottesville bar



WEB EXTRA: Surveillance video of Hannah Graham walking near Charlottesville gas station



New video shows man following Graham



WEB EXTRA: Surveillance video of Hannah Graham walking in downtown Charlottesville



PHOTOS: Missing UVA student Hannah Elizabeth Graham



New developments in disappearance of missing UVA student Hannah Graham



New details come out about missing UVA student



WEB EXTRA: Surveillance video shows Hannah Graham



Search continues for Hannah Graham



Family of missing UVA student releases statement



NEW DETAILS: UVA student last seen Saturday morning



Search continues for missing UVA student



Fellow UVA students react to Hannah Graham's disappearance



Police searching for missing UVA student







The Charlottesville Police Department is searching for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. She was last seen early September 13.









Provided
These are the clothes that Hannah Elizabeth Graham were wearing the night she went missing.











Comments

                The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the Terms Of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. 




















Trending











PHOTOS: Virginia Science Festival in Blacksburg

The Virginia Science Festival was held in Blacksburg on Oct. 4, 2014 at Virginia Tech. Hands-on experiments and interactive demonstrations were designed to get those of all ages excited about science.










PHOTOS: Virginia Tech vs. North Carolina

Pictures from Virginia Tech's 34-17 win over North Carolina on Saturday, October 4, 2014.(Photos; Mike Bell/WDBJ7)










PHOTOS: I-581 multi-vehicle accident

A multi-vehicle accident caused major backups Thursday on I-581 South.










PHOTOS: WeatherFest in Blacksburg

WeatherFest was held in Blacksburg on Oct. 4, 2014 at Virginia Tech. The event is part of the Virginia Science Festival. People of all ages had fun participating in demonstrations, playing games and taking pictures with the WDBJ7 crew.








Jeff Christensen/Reuters


Celebrity odd couples

We all love our celebrities, especially when they pair up. But sometimes their tastes when it comes to matters of the heart can leave us scratching our heads.








August0802/iStock


Most underrated/overrated jobs of 2014

Find out what jobs are the most underrated in 2014. And which ones aren't all they're cracked up to be.








www.paulrevereandtheraiders.com


Notable deaths of 2014

From legendary actors to fashion designers, take a look at the most notable deaths of 2014.










TIMELINE: Link between Jesse Matthew, Morgan Harrington, Hannah Graham

On Monday, September 29, 2014, Virginia State Police confirmed a forensic link between Jesse Matthew, the suspect in the disappearance of Hannah Graham, and the Morgan Harrington case.










UPDATE: Marriage certificates to same-sex couples can now be issued

The Supreme Court has turned away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit same-sex marriages, paving the way for an immediate expansion of gay and lesbian unions.








Rob Chewning/WDBJ7


UPDATE: Route 24 tractor-trailer wreck cleared in Bedford County

A Bedford County tractor-trailer wreck is causing delays on Route 24 on Monday morning.








Charlottesville Police/WTVR


Parents of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham release statement 

The parents of missing University of Virginia student have released a statement. Hannah Graham has been missing since the early morning hours of September 13th.










Christiansburg man dies in crash in southwestern Montana 

A 31-year-old Virginia man died when the pickup truck he was driving collided with a semitrailer in southwestern Montana.










Warmer temperatures with a few showers this afternoon

We'll start off with a mix of sun and clouds, but then more clouds roll in this afternoon. We could see a few scattered showers in the western mountains later today.










Few Virginia schools participate in new meal program

Few public schools in Virginia are participating in a new federal meal program for students.










Jim Justice to be grand marshal for Marshall University's parade

The Greenbrier resort's owner and his family will be the grand marshals for Marshall University's homecoming parade.










One man shot near Hillsville

A man from Fries is recovering in a Roanoke hospital after he was shot outside a convenience store.










Mom turns child's insults into a viral video

A mother documents the "hilarious" ways her 4-year-old child insults her in a viral video that some find cute, but others find obnoxious.










I-77 Crash Follow-Up

Two rival Lynchburg football teams are setting aside their differences on the field to honor lives gone too soon.










Danville Museum asks city to take down Confederate flag

The Danville Museum's board of directors is asking the city to take down a confederate flag. It flies on the front lawn of the Danville Museum of Fine Arts and History which is inside the Sutherlin Mansion and owned by the city.










Danville owes Tobacco Commission $2 million

Incentives given to two businesses in Danville have backfired on the city. Neither company met standards set by the Tobacco Commission. Now the city has to pay back two million dollars!












Irresistible Headlines









Lynch/Frost Productions


'Twin Peaks' returning -- on Showtime

Prepare a pot of damn fine coffee and enjoy a slice of cherry pie: "Twin Peaks" is coming back.




Cop gives young mom a car seat, not a ticket



Hot air balloon crashes into sea during proposal



Cops: Car burglar claims she's looking for ISIS



Did Starbucks start a pumpkin boom? 



Mila Kunis, Ashton Kutcher reveal baby's name



Crabs delay NY flight, passengers crabby



Principal in hot water after making sexy slasher films



Man in inflatable bubble rescued off Fla.



Did President Obama kill romance?



Stolen Ed Sullivan statue recovered



Rapper Too Short brings gun to airport














« Home


Search


Select a section


Latest News
Alerts Signup
Contests
Entertainment
Events
Irresistible
Slideshows
Health
Hometown Wheels
Life
Live Streaming
National News
Sports
Traffic
Video
Weather
Yard Sales











© 2014, WDBJ Television, Inc.


In association with:







 Privacy Policy |  Terms of Service




View full site

































Close









Reset Session - Logout/Re-attempt Sign In
Close




You are logged out
Your profile has been deleted.
Close





Please set an email address for your profile


                                No email address was supplied by
                                .
                                To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
                            

                                Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
                            
Email



Save and Close
Cancel






Personalize Profile

For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information.

Display Name




Zip Code




Submit
Cancel








