UPDATE: Video of Jesse Matthew bond hearing - The Daily Progress: Local  
UPDATE: Video of Jesse Matthew bond hearing - The Daily Progress: Local









            Close
        




















Place an Ad


Advertise With Us


Subscribe


Manage Subscription


Print Ads









            Welcome! 
        

Login|Signup


Login|My Dashboard|Register













Logout|My Dashboard












UPDATE: Video of Jesse Matthew bond hearing - The Daily Progress: Local

















69°  ClearCharlottesville, VA
























The Daily Progress




Home
 
News



Local


UVa


Business


Crime


Economy


Politics


Virginia Politics


In Case You Missed It


Multimedia


Email Alerts


RSS Feeds

 



















 
Opinion



Letters to the Editor


Editorials


Guest Columnists


McKenzie

 



















 
Sports



Cavalier Insider


High School


Whitey 365


Ratcliffe On


College Football


Football


College Basketball


Basketball


The Daily Run


Central Virginia Golf Magazine


Virginia Outdoor Weekly

 



















 
Entertainment



Local


The Latest


Calendar


Contests


Showtimes

 



















 
Lifestyles



Yesteryears Column


Vital Signs Column


Religion


Church Directory


Celebrations

 



















 
Obituaries
 
Weather
 
Magazines



Charlottesville Woman


The Rural Virginian


Homestyle


Readers Choice


Silver Linings


Welcome

 



















 
Video
 
Contests
 
Auto



Top Autos


Find a Car


Sell Your Car

 



















 
Homes



Top Homes


Top Rentals


Sell Your Home


Commercial


Mortgage Center


Vineyards & Farms

 



















 
Classifieds



Print Ads


Top Stuff


Pets


Place an Ad

 



















 
Jobs



Find a Job


Top Jobs


Employers

 



















 
Businesses














Monday, October 6, 2014 


















Home


News



Local





UPDATE: Video of Jesse Matthew bond hearing

StoryComments 
Image (6)


YouTube (2)




        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






SUBMITTED PHOTO
Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr.
Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr.







Graham Press Conference
Charlottesville police Chief Timothy J. Longo, left, and FBI special agent Adam Lee announce that Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. has been arrested in Galveston, Texas after being charged with abduction with intent to defile in the case of Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, the second-year University of Virginia student who went missing Sept. 13. Photo / Ryan M. Kelly / The Daily Progress







ANDREW SHURTLEFF/THE DAILY PROGRESS
Graham news conference
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy J. Longo announces at a news conference Tuesday that Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., who remains at large, has been charged with abduction with intent to defile in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.







Longo
Charlottesville police Chief Timothy J. Longo displays a missing person poster and announces that the amount has reached $100,000 for information in the case of Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, the second-year University of Virginia student who went missing Sept. 13. Photo / Ryan M. Kelly / The Daily Progress







Adam Lee
FBI special agent Adam Lee announces that Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. has been arrested in Galveston, Texas after being charged with abduction with intent to defile in the case of Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, the second-year University of Virginia student who went missing Sept. 13. Photo / Ryan M. Kelly / The Daily Progress







Chief Longo
Charlottesville police Chief Timothy J. Longo announces that Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. has been arrested in Galveston, Texas after being charged with abduction with intent to defile in the case of Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, the second-year University of Virginia student who went missing Sept. 13. Photo / Ryan M. Kelly / The Daily Progress



 









Related YouTube Videos












Surveillance footage in the search for Hannah Graham










youtube
youtube
WKyf7evc8yM



Tuel Jewelers Surveillance read more

        
      Surveillance footage in the search for Hannah Graham












Sals Pizza Surveillance



Related Stories

Related: Police implore landowners to search their properties for clues in missing student










        Posted: Wednesday, September 24, 2014 5:45 pm
         | 
        

                Updated: 12:25 pm, Thu Sep 25, 2014.
            



UPDATE: Video of Jesse Matthew bond hearing




Updated at 9:07 p.m.
The Galveston County Sheriff's Office arrested Jesse Leroy Matthew, Jr.  Wednesday afternoon on the Bolivar Peninsula, an unincorporated part of the county, a ferry-ride away from the city said TJ Aulds, mainland editor at The (Galveston County) Daily News.
"It ain't too hard to hide down there," Aulds said, referencing its mix of unincorporated communities.
Matthew was arrested on the beach in Gilcrest, on the peninsula, around 3:30 p.m. Central Daylight Time. Aulds said Gilcrest was, "basically wiped off the face of the Earth" by Hurricane Ike in 2008, so there are barely any residences or traffic there. 
Aulds said Sheriff Henry Trochesset told him FBI was on its way down to get Matthew from the Galveston County Jail. Trochesset wouldn't say if Matthew was alone. Investigators from Charlottesville are heading to Texas tomorrow, according to a Galveston press release.
Galveston isn't a stranger to, "having some kind of odd national case end up at our doorstep," Aulds said.  Robert Durst, a millionaire from New York, who was acquitted of murder twice, was arrested in Galveston in 2001, shortly after body parts of his elderly neighbor were found floating in the Galveston Bay.
Bodies of two missing doctors from North Carolina, Leslie and William "Allen" Cargile, were found in a hotel room in Galveston in 2012. 

Updated at 7:35 p.m.
Authorities have arrested Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. in Galveston, Texas, Charlottesville police Chief Timothy J. Longo announced tonight.
Matthew, 32, of Albemarle County, is charged with abduction with intent to defile in the case of Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, the second-year University of Virginia student who went missing Sept. 13.
Authorities thanked the Galveston County Sheriff's Department for its help in the case. The process to extradite Matthew from Texas is under way, authorities said.
Police said they believe he was the last person to see Graham on the Downtown Mall before she disappeared.
A reward for information leading to the location of Graham has been increased to $100,000.
Updated at 5:50 p.m.
Charlottesville police have called a 7 p.m. press conference to discuss details of the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham and their efforts to locate a man charged with her abduction.
Police have spent much of the day checking out citizen tips and possible sightings of Jesse Leroy Mathew, Jr who is believed to be the last person to see Graham on the Downtown Mall before she disappeared the morning of Sept. 13.
He was charged Tuesday after forensic results were returned from evidence recovered during searches on his vehicle and residence.

Updated at noon
Nelson County's commonwealth’s attorney says there is no connection between the man convicted in the abduction and death of Alexis Murphy and Jesse Leroy Matthew, Jr., the man charged with abducting missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Anthony D. Martin, Nelson County's prosecutor, said Dameon Bradley was the person identified by Randy Taylor as being involved with him in Murphy's murder. Taylor was convicted in May of first degree murder of Murphy and Bradley was cleared of any involvement.
"At no time did the name Jesse Leroy Matthew, Jr., or a vehicle matching Matthew's, come up in the Randy Taylor, Alexis Murphy case," Martin said in a statement released today. "Dameon Bradley, who testified in Randy Taylor's jury trial, denied Taylor's allegations and had an alibi that was confirmed by law enforcement for the time period that Alexis Murphy went missing."
Martin said frames of a surveillance video shown in Taylor's trial show an orange or red object in the background that some have said could have been Matthew's car but which investigators have determined was a portion of a sign.
"No evidence at this time exists that Jesse Leroy Matthew, Jr. had anything to do with the disappearance of Alexis Murphy," Martin said.
Meanwhile, officials from the University of Virginia Medical Center today confirmed that Matthew, who works as a patient technician in the medical center’s operating room, has been suspended without pay.
The suspension is the result of the criminal charge filed against him by the Charlottesville Police Department, a university spokesperson said. Officials declined to comment further on the Matthew’s employment status.
Matthew also served as a volunteer coach with the Covenant School football team  prior to Graham going missing, school officials confirmed. He is no longer serving in that capacity
School officials said Graham's background was checked prior to his serving as a coach and that he passed background checks.
Former Albemarle County and Waynesboro prosecutor Jim Camblos is representing Matthew.

Local, state and federal authorities were searching Tuesday for Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. on charges he abducted University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Charlottesville police Chief Timothy J. Longo announced at an evening news conference that investigators had obtained a warrant to arrest Matthew, 32, on a felony charge of abduction with intent to defile. A second-year student, Graham, 18, has been missing since early Sept. 13.
Police have described Matthew, of Albemarle County, as the last person to see her, and they've been seeking him since he sped away from them Saturday shortly after leaving the city police station, where he had gone to ask for the name of a lawyer, police said.
City police Capt. Gary Pleasants said Matthew spoke with a lawyer for roughly an hour, left the station and went to his grandmother’s Albemarle home. A short time later, federal authorities, who had been monitoring Matthew’s movements, saw him drive away in his sister’s car with his mother, traveling at a high rate of speed in a manner so “erratic” and “reckless” that authorities were unable to follow him without endangering themselves and the public, police said.
Authorities subsequently issued an arrest warrant for Matthew on two counts of reckless driving. He hasn’t been seen since.
Longo did not elaborate on what led to the abduction charge, saying only that police had “sufficient probable cause” to obtain a warrant.
Pleasants a day earlier said police expected Tuesday to get state crime lab results from a forensic analysis of items seized in searches of Matthew's car and home. Police took clothes from his Hessian Hills apartment Monday in a second search of the unit. It was unclear late Tuesday whether police had received the forensic results.
As of Tuesday afternoon, the state lab was still analyzing evidence it has received from Charlottesville police, including nearly two dozen items and eight "known samples that we would use for comparison purposes," said Jeffrey Ban, director of the Department of Forensic Science's Central Laboratory in Richmond.
 
Ban said that the department has expedited the case and hoped to provide authorities with results in the "very near future." But he noted the lab could spend hours or even a whole day on a single piece of evidence that may have multiple stains or hairs on it. He also said it is standard procedure to test any samples against those in their database, including those from other missing persons cases in the Central Virginia area.
Matthew was spotted by eyewitnesses walking with Graham out of a bar on the Downtown Mall early Sept. 13, police have said.
Longo last week made impassioned pleas for Matthew to talk to police.
On Tuesday, Longo said he could not provide additional details on the case.
“We need to be very sensitive about the information we share,” Longo said.
As the search for Matthew continued, the chief said, the search for Graham would not stop.
“We absolutely are continuing our search for Hannah, even as we speak,” Longo said.
Matthew is employed as a patient technician in the operating room at the University of Virginia Medical Center, where he has worked since August 2012, a spokesman said. He also was a part-time volunteer assistant coach on the Covenant School football team, according to Athletic Director Brooks Berry.
Matthew had a taxi permit from 2007 through 2010, according to Pam Goheen with Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles.
Police describe Matthew as black, 6 feet tall and weighing 270 pounds. They said he last was seen driving his sister’s 1997 light blue Nissan Sentra. Authorities said he has contacts in Virginia, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C.
As the searches continue, digital billboards displaying Graham’s photo and a toll-free tip line will begin appearing in cities throughout Virginia, according to a release from the Outdoor Advertising Association of America.
In the wake of Graham’s disappearance, UVa plans to increase police patrols and the number of safe-ride drivers. University President Teresa A. Sullivan said students should begin using a newly instituted tool for reporting suspicious behavior to university police via their smartphones or the Internet.
An app, dubbed “TipSubmit,” allows students to report to police anything that “doesn’t feel right,” and students also can text tips to the number 274637 or “CRIMES.” Students also can submit tips through the university police department’s website.
“These steps are a beginning, and we will continue to gather information and examine how we can make our university community feel as safe as possible,” Sullivan wrote in a statement Tuesday. “Let’s help each other stay safe, as we continue our search for Hannah Graham.”
Staff writer K. Burnell Evans and the Associated Press contributed to this story.
 


 

























            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Local,
        News,
        Crime
        
        on 
        
            Wednesday, September 24, 2014 5:45 pm. 
            
                Updated: 12:25 pm.












 













tab 0
tab 1




























                    Like us on Facebook!
                







Latest Local Offers





        
        Sale at Fantastic Sams!
        


            Going on Now! Sale on all Fantastic Sam Line of Products! Stop in today!






        
        Scrapbook Tote Carrier Current Special!
        


            Darice Rolling Scrap Tote (3 pack) with a FREE GIFT






        
        All In One Can Recycling
        


            All In One Can Recycling makes it EASY being green!  Locally owned, family run - Dixon Disposal.






        
        Stop in at H.L. Lang’s
        


            Stop in at H.L. Lang’s to see our Morganite & Diamond Jewelry. Other varieties of styles also available including Rose Gold w/ Diamonds.






        
        Call Graystone Homes Today!
        


            Graystone Homes is best known for our high-end custom homes and renovations - but that's not all we do! Call Graystone today at 540-825-1600 to schedule an appointment and learn more. 






        
        Buy 10, Get 1 FREE!
        


            Buy 10 Gallons of Milk and Get 1 Gallon FREE!




› View more local offers





tab 0
tab 1
tab 2






























                    Featured Businesses
                


Scrapbook Tote Carrier 
Scrapbook Tote Carrier
Let us make your life easier!This is a christian based company newly founded in September of 2013 by my husband David and myself Mary. We have two grown children, a wonderful daughter-in-law, a grandson and a new granddaughter! Our mission is to bring you the best products at the best price! Organizing made simple with all the products you would need!Our goal is to continually strive to provide the best pricing, service and product information to our customers, and continually improve our store.Malloy FordAt Malloy Ford Charlottesville on Pantops Mountain we take pride in everything we do. We offer new Ford models and used cars to the Charlottesville area and have the staff in all departments to expertly serve our Charlottesville, Short Pump, Richmond & Central Virginia friends. We want to be your choice for all Ford services in Virginia and will do what it takes to keep you 100% satisfied.
Get a new 2013 or 2014 Ford Fusion, Edge, Explorer, Flex, F-250, Focus, F-150, Escape or Fiesta from Charlottesville’s Malloy Ford Charlottesville and you'll get a great vehicle, at a great price, with the experience and dedication of our team behind you throughout the purchasing process, and the duration of your ownership of your Ford automobile. Our service to you does not end at the sale. Call us anytime with questions. Our entire team at Malloy Ford Charlottesville on Pantops Mountain is here to help. If you're looking to purchase from a dealership dedicated to its customers, come by Charlottesville’s Malloy Ford Charlottesville and experience our service for yourself!
Perhaps a new vehicle is not in the cards right now. Or, maybe you simply prefer gently used cars in Charlottesville to new ones. Whatever the case may be, Malloy Ford Charlottesville on Pantops Mountain has you covered with a handpicked mix of used cars available now, at our Charlottesville showroom. Carefully inspected from front end to rear bumper, roof to underbody, each promises long-term satisfaction. Financing and Servicing for New Ford and Used Cars in the Charlottesville Area. Sometimes it can be difficult to find a car loan with a low payment or a short-term loan that allows you to pay off your vehicle in only a few years. Here at Malloy Ford Charlottesville we make this process easy and efficient for our customers. Our experts will help come up with a loan program that is made just for you and your needs. This way you will be able to drive off in your dream Ford car while being comfortable with your payments. So for a car loan in the Charlottesville region, visit Malloy Ford Charlottesville on Pantops Mountain and we'll figure out the plan that is tailored just for you!
Visit Malloy Ford Charlottesville for all your automotive service needs, and know you're getting the help you deserve from industry experts. We provide the Charlottesville region with Ford car repairs done to factory specifications to ensure your vehicle is always performing at its best. We also keep a wide selection of original Ford car parts for quick order fulfillment. If we don't have your part in stock we can acquire it quickly. Also, our body shop can fix any collision damage your car may have experienced.
Read about us, visit our dealership at 1300 Richmond Rd 22911, or give us a call. Our team is available to answer your automotive questions. Thanks for visiting our site, and we hope to see you at our Charlottesville car dealership soon!
 
New Cars: 1-888-544-8189 | Used Cars: 1-888-649-5633Doug's Maytag Home Appliance CenterDougs Maytag Home Appliance Center started out as Doug’s Appliance Repair in February of 1991.  Douglas and Kelly Golder began running the company out of their home and garage, where it remained for 3 years. As the company started growing, they rented a store front in the town of Scottsville, Virginia where they continued to provide excellent appliance repair service to their customers.  In, 1996 they ventured out and took advantage of an opportunity to join the Maytag Company. They now have a bigger showroom and office to better serve their customers. At this point the business name changed to Doug’s Maytag Home Appliance Center. This allowed them to sell Maytag products and still be able to maintain the repair side of the business.In 2006, Maytag was sold to the Whirlpool Corporation.  With this merger , Doug’s Maytag, added Whirlpool, Kitchen Aid, and Amana to the Maytag brand  giving more versatility and choices to their customers. Doug’s Maytag, understands the different customer demands and needs in purchasing appliances, weather for a new construction or for upgrades to an existing home,  and can advise the customer on their purchase. Doug’s Maytag offers financing and leasing programs which allows the customer flexibility with their purchaseThey have partnered with Brand source, which has helped to build the business in many different aspects. Doug’s Maytag is a sponsor of The Ronald McDonald House, Susan G. Komen, John Force Racing and Trees for the Future.  Doug’s Maytag Home Appliance Center strives to provide exceptional value thru exemplary customer service before, during and after the sale. 
Stop in or call today to see for yourself! 434-296-6952 / 434-286-6952Chauncey's Smokehouse & Bar 
The best BBQ restaurant in the area! Live music and cold beer!  
Moonshine Bar Now OPEN!Kiddie Academy of CharlottesvilleWe provide care that focuses on days filled with learning and fun, the key ingredients of our Life Essentials® educational philosophy. The smiles you’ll see on our children’s faces will delight you. The words from our children’s parents will impress you.  We realize the tremendous level of trust you place in a childcare provider. You want your child to thrive in an environment that's as clean, safe and nurturing as your home. Kiddie Academy is more than daycare. We set the standards for safety, education and trust. Just ask the Kiddie Academy parents of Charlottesville, VA — they are our best references.  Visit our academy, meet our staff, see our classrooms and play on our playgrounds.
 
Developmentally Age Appropriate Curriculum
Convenient Hours – OPEN 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m!
The ONLY Area Child Care with Webcam Access for Families
A Secure Key Pin Entrance
Innovative Digital technology - We Send Pictures and Information Directly to Parent’s Email!
Indoor and Outdoor Play Areas
Meals Included
ABC Music and Me Included – no extra charge!
Eco Friendly
Onsite Organic Garden Used as a Learning Tool
Additional Options for Enrichment ProgramsGenesis Home and Energy 
Genesis Home & Energy provides alternative energy systems for both residential & commercial use. Established in August 2011, Genesis Home & Energy has a goal of promoting environmentally responsible and sustainable living. The company designs, sells, installs & services solar panel systems for electricity & hot water. The company plans to offer sustainable living classes & products to promote water collection, farming, food preservation, & emergency preparedness. Our company takes seriously the stewardship given to us by God in caring for the earth, as laid out in the book of Genesis. Our logo emphasizes the unity that can be found between technology & sustainability. We focus on giving personalized attention to our customers, working with them to find a solution that fits their needs and budget. 
































The Daily Progress, Charlottesville, VA ©  2014 BH Media Group Holdings, Inc.  Terms and Conditions | Work With Us



TITLE



Daily Progress:


Contact Us


Email Alerts


Mobile Alerts


RSS


Site Search


Mobile Apps


Find Charlottesville Jobs




TITLE



Partners:


Cavalier Insider


Data Center


Charlottesville Tomorrow


cvillepedia


HeadlineVA




TITLE



Regional Partner Links:


Culpeper Star Exponent


Waynesboro News Virginian


Orange County Review


Madison County Eagle


Greene County Record













Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






            Need an account? Create one now.
        


























