Police release 'Wanted' poster for Matthew, search apartment again - The Daily Progress: Local  
Police release 'Wanted' poster for Matthew, search apartment again - The Daily Progress: Local









            Close
        




















Place an Ad


Advertise With Us


Subscribe


Manage Subscription


Print Ads









            Welcome! 
        

Login|Signup


Login|My Dashboard|Register













Logout|My Dashboard












Police release 'Wanted' poster for Matthew, search apartment again - The Daily Progress: Local

















69°  ClearCharlottesville, VA
























The Daily Progress




Home
 
News



Local


UVa


Business


Crime


Economy


Politics


Virginia Politics


In Case You Missed It


Multimedia


Email Alerts


RSS Feeds

 



















 
Opinion



Letters to the Editor


Editorials


Guest Columnists


McKenzie

 



















 
Sports



Cavalier Insider


High School


Whitey 365


Ratcliffe On


College Football


Football


College Basketball


Basketball


The Daily Run


Central Virginia Golf Magazine


Virginia Outdoor Weekly

 



















 
Entertainment



Local


The Latest


Calendar


Contests


Showtimes

 



















 
Lifestyles



Yesteryears Column


Vital Signs Column


Religion


Church Directory


Celebrations

 



















 
Obituaries
 
Weather
 
Magazines



Charlottesville Woman


The Rural Virginian


Homestyle


Readers Choice


Silver Linings


Welcome

 



















 
Video
 
Contests
 
Auto



Top Autos


Find a Car


Sell Your Car

 



















 
Homes



Top Homes


Top Rentals


Sell Your Home


Commercial


Mortgage Center


Vineyards & Farms

 



















 
Classifieds



Print Ads


Top Stuff


Pets


Place an Ad

 



















 
Jobs



Find a Job


Top Jobs


Employers

 



















 
Businesses














Monday, October 6, 2014 


















Home


News



Local





Police release 'Wanted' poster for Matthew, search apartment again

StoryComments 
Image (7)


        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






Graham
Hannah Elizabeth Graham







VIRGINIA STATE POLICE
Matthew driving warrant 1







VIRGINIA STATE POLICE
Matthew driving warrant 2







CONTRIBUTED PHOTO
passenger side detail
Detail of the passengers side of Jesse Matthew's car and its damage. Matthew was seen leaving the downtown area in this vehicle the morning of Sept. 13.







CONTRIBUTED PHOTO
passengers side
The passengers side of Jesse Matthew's car. This side of the car as front-end damage. Matthew was seen leaving the downtown area in this vehicle the morning of Sept. 13.







CONTRIBUTED PHOTO
drivers side
The front driver's side of Jesse Matthew's car. He was seen leaving the downtown area in this vehicle the morning of Sept. 13.







CONTRIBUTED PHOTO
car rear
The rear of Jesse Matthew's car. He was seen leaving the downtown area in this vehicle the morning of Sept. 13.



 









Related Documents







Wanted poster






Related Links


Related: Missing Poster












        Posted: Sunday, September 21, 2014 10:05 pm
         | 
        

                Updated: 1:58 pm, Mon Sep 29, 2014.
            



Police release 'Wanted' poster for Matthew, search apartment again




Updated 2:37 p.m.
Police released a “Wanted” poster of Jesse Matthew Jr. on Monday afternoon asking for the public’s help in finding the 32-year-old, who authorities believe may be driving his sister’s light blue 1997 Nissan Sentra.
Authorities said Matthew may have had access to the car, which has the license plate number VAC4575, as recently as 5 p.m. Sunday. Matthew has contacts in Virginia, D.C., Maryland, Pennsylvania and New York, police said.
The release came within an hour of investigators serving another search warrant on Matthew’s Hessian Hills apartment unit.
Albemarle County police officers walked out of the unit in the 100 block of the complex at the intersection of Georgetown and Barracks roads carrying several items. Police declined to say what led them back to the unit.
Matthew’s landlord, Frances Lee-Vandell, said she was “horrified” when news broke that police wanted to speak with Matthew, about Hannah Graham’s disappearance.
“I’m just as shocked as everybody else,” Lee-Vandell said.
Lee-Vandell last spoke to Matthew on Thursday, she said, about bills he intended to pay.
Matthew’s two roommates have moved out, she said. Also absent was Matthew’s pit bull, Popcorn.
“We just don’t know enough [to jump to conclusions] yet,” she said, of Graham’s disappearance. “I’ll be very interested in what happens.”

 
Updated 12:44 p.m.
Authorities refocused their efforts on the area of Jefferson Park Avenue on Monday morning as the search resumed for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
On the heels of an emotional plea from Graham’s parents Sunday for any information that may lead to their daughter, police say they are working on leads and waiting on lab tests of evidence they collected in Graham’s case.
Forensics workers at the state lab in Richmond worked through the weekend to process items authorities seized from the home and car of the man they say was the last person to see Hannah Graham, said Charlottesville police Capt. Gary Pleasants.
“We’re expecting those results possibly today or maybe tomorrow,” Pleasants said.
Meanwhile, authorities continue to search for Jesse “LJ” Matthew Jr., Pleasants said.
Virginia State Police issued two misdemeanor reckless driving warrants for Matthew on Saturday evening. An officer following Matthew witnessed him driving away from the Charlottesville police station at a high rate of speed, city police Chief Timothy J. Longo told reporters Sunday.
Matthew, a patient technician at the University of Virginia Medical Center, has not been named a suspect in the disappearance of Graham, 18, who was last seen Sept. 13. Longo said police want to question Matthew about what happened after he and Graham left Tempo restaurant on the Downtown Mall just after 1 a.m. that Saturday.
Pleasants would not say whether police are considering anyone else in Graham’s case.
“We are discounting nothing at this point,” he said.
Anyone who saw Graham or has any information on her whereabouts is encouraged to call a tip line at (434) 295-3851. Tips also may be called in to police at (434) 970-3280.

 
 
Virginia State Police issued arrest warrants for Jesse L. “L.J.” Matthew, a man seen with a University of Virginia student before her disappearance, on two misdemeanor reckless driving charges.
The warrants stem from Matthew, 32, driving away from the Charlottesville police station Saturday afternoon at a high rate of speed, city police Chief Timothy J. Longo said Sunday.
Surveillance footage showed Matthew on the Downtown Mall with Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, on the morning of her Sept. 13 disappearance, police said. Longo said little information was gleaned from Matthew’s appearance at the station Saturday and investigators want to question him again.
“I don’t know any more about his interaction with Hannah Graham than I did when he walked in,” Longo said during a Sunday news conference.
Longo said Matthew entered the station with family members and asked for and spoke to a lawyer. He left roughly an hour later.
About 15 minutes after Matthew departed the station, state and federal authorities who had been “overtly” monitoring Matthew’s movements saw him drive through Albemarle County at a speed and in a manner that was “reckless and placed others in danger, so much so that they had to disengage for their protection and protection of other people,” Longo said.
Longo said police now are “aggressively pursuing” Matthew and will arrest him when he is found.
“I believe that Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth,” Longo said at the news conference. “Because it’s been a week, and we can’t find her.”
Eyewitness accounts and some surveillance video show that Matthew and Graham were together just after 1 a.m. Saturday, first going to the Tempo restaurant on the Downtown Mall, ordering drinks and leaving some time later. It is still unclear whether Graham continued with Matthew after that.
“Somebody knows what happened to Hannah,” John Graham, her father, said Sunday as he read a statement while standing next to his wife Sue. “We don’t know who that is, but somebody knows what happened to Hannah.”
Matthew has not been charged in the disappearance of Graham, who arrived at the Downtown Mall after walking from a party in the Venable neighborhood, according to police.
“I don’t want to get tunnel vision just because we have a name, just because we saw her with a particular person,” Longo said.
Authorities executed search warrants on Matthew’s Albemarle County apartment and his vehicle, a 1998 burnt orange Chrysler coupe. Law enforcement is still awaiting results from the state Department of Forensic Science to find out whether any evidence of Graham being in the car was recovered, Longo said.
Photos of the car were shown and disseminated at the news conference, and Longo urged anyone who might have seen the car Sept. 12 or Sept. 13 to contact police.
“If you saw somebody get in that car around 1:20 [a.m.], 1:30, 1:40, we really need to talk to you,” Longo said. “Because this is critical piece of a puzzle where there’s lots of pieces missing.”
UVa President Teresa A. Sullivan released a statement Sunday reiterating the university’s commitment to “provide both emotional support and physical assistance” in the search for Graham.
“As you heard from Hannah’s parents, … our shared goal as a community is to locate Hannah and to return her safely to her family,” Sullivan said.
Mark Eggeman of the Virginia Department of Emergency Management said that, by the end of searching Sunday, approximately 85 percent of Charlottesville has been scoured following a community effort that brought more than 1,200 volunteers into the city .
While the community effort proved successful and encouraging, Eggeman said, searching now will be scaled back solely to trained volunteers.
As investigators continued to follow leads, John and Sue Graham asked the community to continue coming forward with more information about their daughter in her last hours before she disappeared, no matter how “insignificant” it might seem.
“We need to find out what happened to Hannah, and make sure it doesn’t happen to anyone else,” John Graham said.
Graham is white, about 5 feet, 11 inches tall with a slender build, blue eyes, light-brown hair and freckles. Surveillance footage captured three hours before she went missing shows Graham dressed in black slacks and a gold and black, bare-midriff top with mesh cutouts.
Anyone who saw Graham or has information on her whereabouts is encouraged to call a tip line at (434) 295-3851. Tips also may be called in to police at (434) 970-3280.
 


 

























            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Local,
        News
        
        on 
        
            Sunday, September 21, 2014 10:05 pm. 
            
                Updated: 1:58 pm.












 













tab 0
tab 1




























                    Like us on Facebook!
                







Latest Local Offers





        
        Sale at Fantastic Sams!
        


            Going on Now! Sale on all Fantastic Sam Line of Products! Stop in today!






        
        Scrapbook Tote Carrier Current Special!
        


            Darice Rolling Scrap Tote (3 pack) with a FREE GIFT






        
        All In One Can Recycling
        


            All In One Can Recycling makes it EASY being green!  Locally owned, family run - Dixon Disposal.






        
        Stop in at H.L. Lang’s
        


            Stop in at H.L. Lang’s to see our Morganite & Diamond Jewelry. Other varieties of styles also available including Rose Gold w/ Diamonds.






        
        Call Graystone Homes Today!
        


            Graystone Homes is best known for our high-end custom homes and renovations - but that's not all we do! Call Graystone today at 540-825-1600 to schedule an appointment and learn more. 






        
        Buy 10, Get 1 FREE!
        


            Buy 10 Gallons of Milk and Get 1 Gallon FREE!




› View more local offers





tab 0
tab 1
tab 2






























                    Featured Businesses
                


Scrapbook Tote Carrier 
Scrapbook Tote Carrier
Let us make your life easier!This is a christian based company newly founded in September of 2013 by my husband David and myself Mary. We have two grown children, a wonderful daughter-in-law, a grandson and a new granddaughter! Our mission is to bring you the best products at the best price! Organizing made simple with all the products you would need!Our goal is to continually strive to provide the best pricing, service and product information to our customers, and continually improve our store.Malloy FordAt Malloy Ford Charlottesville on Pantops Mountain we take pride in everything we do. We offer new Ford models and used cars to the Charlottesville area and have the staff in all departments to expertly serve our Charlottesville, Short Pump, Richmond & Central Virginia friends. We want to be your choice for all Ford services in Virginia and will do what it takes to keep you 100% satisfied.
Get a new 2013 or 2014 Ford Fusion, Edge, Explorer, Flex, F-250, Focus, F-150, Escape or Fiesta from Charlottesville’s Malloy Ford Charlottesville and you'll get a great vehicle, at a great price, with the experience and dedication of our team behind you throughout the purchasing process, and the duration of your ownership of your Ford automobile. Our service to you does not end at the sale. Call us anytime with questions. Our entire team at Malloy Ford Charlottesville on Pantops Mountain is here to help. If you're looking to purchase from a dealership dedicated to its customers, come by Charlottesville’s Malloy Ford Charlottesville and experience our service for yourself!
Perhaps a new vehicle is not in the cards right now. Or, maybe you simply prefer gently used cars in Charlottesville to new ones. Whatever the case may be, Malloy Ford Charlottesville on Pantops Mountain has you covered with a handpicked mix of used cars available now, at our Charlottesville showroom. Carefully inspected from front end to rear bumper, roof to underbody, each promises long-term satisfaction. Financing and Servicing for New Ford and Used Cars in the Charlottesville Area. Sometimes it can be difficult to find a car loan with a low payment or a short-term loan that allows you to pay off your vehicle in only a few years. Here at Malloy Ford Charlottesville we make this process easy and efficient for our customers. Our experts will help come up with a loan program that is made just for you and your needs. This way you will be able to drive off in your dream Ford car while being comfortable with your payments. So for a car loan in the Charlottesville region, visit Malloy Ford Charlottesville on Pantops Mountain and we'll figure out the plan that is tailored just for you!
Visit Malloy Ford Charlottesville for all your automotive service needs, and know you're getting the help you deserve from industry experts. We provide the Charlottesville region with Ford car repairs done to factory specifications to ensure your vehicle is always performing at its best. We also keep a wide selection of original Ford car parts for quick order fulfillment. If we don't have your part in stock we can acquire it quickly. Also, our body shop can fix any collision damage your car may have experienced.
Read about us, visit our dealership at 1300 Richmond Rd 22911, or give us a call. Our team is available to answer your automotive questions. Thanks for visiting our site, and we hope to see you at our Charlottesville car dealership soon!
 
New Cars: 1-888-544-8189 | Used Cars: 1-888-649-5633Doug's Maytag Home Appliance CenterDougs Maytag Home Appliance Center started out as Doug’s Appliance Repair in February of 1991.  Douglas and Kelly Golder began running the company out of their home and garage, where it remained for 3 years. As the company started growing, they rented a store front in the town of Scottsville, Virginia where they continued to provide excellent appliance repair service to their customers.  In, 1996 they ventured out and took advantage of an opportunity to join the Maytag Company. They now have a bigger showroom and office to better serve their customers. At this point the business name changed to Doug’s Maytag Home Appliance Center. This allowed them to sell Maytag products and still be able to maintain the repair side of the business.In 2006, Maytag was sold to the Whirlpool Corporation.  With this merger , Doug’s Maytag, added Whirlpool, Kitchen Aid, and Amana to the Maytag brand  giving more versatility and choices to their customers. Doug’s Maytag, understands the different customer demands and needs in purchasing appliances, weather for a new construction or for upgrades to an existing home,  and can advise the customer on their purchase. Doug’s Maytag offers financing and leasing programs which allows the customer flexibility with their purchaseThey have partnered with Brand source, which has helped to build the business in many different aspects. Doug’s Maytag is a sponsor of The Ronald McDonald House, Susan G. Komen, John Force Racing and Trees for the Future.  Doug’s Maytag Home Appliance Center strives to provide exceptional value thru exemplary customer service before, during and after the sale. 
Stop in or call today to see for yourself! 434-296-6952 / 434-286-6952Chauncey's Smokehouse & Bar 
The best BBQ restaurant in the area! Live music and cold beer!  
Moonshine Bar Now OPEN!Kiddie Academy of CharlottesvilleWe provide care that focuses on days filled with learning and fun, the key ingredients of our Life Essentials® educational philosophy. The smiles you’ll see on our children’s faces will delight you. The words from our children’s parents will impress you.  We realize the tremendous level of trust you place in a childcare provider. You want your child to thrive in an environment that's as clean, safe and nurturing as your home. Kiddie Academy is more than daycare. We set the standards for safety, education and trust. Just ask the Kiddie Academy parents of Charlottesville, VA — they are our best references.  Visit our academy, meet our staff, see our classrooms and play on our playgrounds.
 
Developmentally Age Appropriate Curriculum
Convenient Hours – OPEN 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m!
The ONLY Area Child Care with Webcam Access for Families
A Secure Key Pin Entrance
Innovative Digital technology - We Send Pictures and Information Directly to Parent’s Email!
Indoor and Outdoor Play Areas
Meals Included
ABC Music and Me Included – no extra charge!
Eco Friendly
Onsite Organic Garden Used as a Learning Tool
Additional Options for Enrichment ProgramsGenesis Home and Energy 
Genesis Home & Energy provides alternative energy systems for both residential & commercial use. Established in August 2011, Genesis Home & Energy has a goal of promoting environmentally responsible and sustainable living. The company designs, sells, installs & services solar panel systems for electricity & hot water. The company plans to offer sustainable living classes & products to promote water collection, farming, food preservation, & emergency preparedness. Our company takes seriously the stewardship given to us by God in caring for the earth, as laid out in the book of Genesis. Our logo emphasizes the unity that can be found between technology & sustainability. We focus on giving personalized attention to our customers, working with them to find a solution that fits their needs and budget. 
































The Daily Progress, Charlottesville, VA ©  2014 BH Media Group Holdings, Inc.  Terms and Conditions | Work With Us



TITLE



Daily Progress:


Contact Us


Email Alerts


Mobile Alerts


RSS


Site Search


Mobile Apps


Find Charlottesville Jobs




TITLE



Partners:


Cavalier Insider


Data Center


Charlottesville Tomorrow


cvillepedia


HeadlineVA




TITLE



Regional Partner Links:


Culpeper Star Exponent


Waynesboro News Virginian


Orange County Review


Madison County Eagle


Greene County Record













Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






            Need an account? Create one now.
        


























