Why Do We Dare Link Hannah Graham`s Case To Morgan Harrington`s?  
Why Do We Dare Link Hannah Graham`s Case To Morgan Harrington`s? 






Contact theSOPAbout theSOPSupport theSOPWritersEditorsManaging Editors




























Categories
Art/Author Interviews
Activism
Business
Canada
Celebrity Interviews
Cartoons
Crazy World
DNC Coverage
Education
Entertainment
Food
Environment
Health
Become a Guest on theAmerican Perspective
Home and Garden
Hot Copy
International
Horoscopes/Astrology
Journalism
Joke of the Day
Law
Letters to the Editor
Military
Media is the Masses
Movies
Music
History Cafe
NSA Speakers
Opinion
Paranormal
Platinum Ice
Pets/Animals
Poetry
Politics
Press Releases
Press Release Service
Promote Your Music,Band or Film Project
Radio Programs
Religion
Rise and Walk
Science and Space
SOP Battle of theBands
SOP Spanish
SOP French
Sports
Technology
Training
Travel & Tourism
TV Programs
United States
Weather
Will Says...
World
NEWSPAPERS
Boca Raton
Folsom
Orange County
St Augustine
Vero Beach































Published:September 23rd, 2014 13:46 EST






Why Do We Dare Link Hannah Graham`s Case To Morgan Harrington`s? 








By John G. Kays



































 Recent developments in Hannah Graham`s missing persons` case in Charlottesville, Virginia are reason for pause, both in regard to older cold cases of missing or murdered women (that suddenly are not so cold anymore), and as far as what we may be aware of in conjunction to a person of interest in Hannah`s disappearance, a 32-year-old African American, Jesse Matthews.   First of all, these cases are not necessarily connected, but it certainly doesn`t hurt any to dust off some these old ones and put them under a microscope once again, conceivably with a fresher perspective. I`m gradually getting around to doing just that, after seeing in the news, references to Morgan Harrington and other cases, equally as shocking as Morgan`s (although hers has garnered the most attention).   Last night, after reviewing the Wikipedia entry on Morgan Harrington (I`m familiar with the case, but needed to brush up a bit), a slightly eerie intuitive flash came over me, although it may`ve been a false siren only, or a harpy that whispers careless lies in your ear.  In just a moment I`ll tell you what that little flash, that lightening bolt of intelligence is, that mysteriously channeled through my circuit-board yesterday evening; but first let me mention how this sagacious sleuthing was made possible.   As is normal for me, I was tuning in HLN`s Jane Velez Mitchell last night, when lo and behold, come to find out Jane was covering the Hannah Graham case, which is not too surprising, since the suspect (that`s what I call him), Jesse Matthews is currently on the lam, supposedly avoiding two counts of reckless driving, with a big fat warrant out for his arrest (probably by now you`ve seen the wanted flyers).  I recorded the show, so I have several photos of Jesse indelibly imprinted on my withering brain. Furthermore, Jane did a telephone interview with Gil and Dan Harrington, as well as with Courteney Stuart, a journalist who did the best articles on Morgan Harrington`s case. As Jane talked with Courteney, one particular photo of Jesse Matthews flashed across the screen; this earlier pic of a person of interest, has him thinner, with short hair (before the dreadlocks), apparently when he was making a living by driving a Yellow Cab.  Alright, so I know by now you`re sitting on the edge of your seat in anticipation of my startling soothsayer revelation, culled from some serious examination of sundry available information. Okay, so it may be be nothing at all, and I guess I ought to confess, I`ve been through True Detective, Season One twice already, and something of the Wonder Child, Rust Cohle has rubbed off on me a tidbit.   So I`m looking at the police sketch of the (conjured) suspect in Morgan Harrington`s case, then I stare at the Yellow Cab pic, then back to the twin sketch; thus, back over to a huskier, thinner, younger Matthews and continue, repeating this comparison process; Bingo!, a sick yet incriminating sensation invades my inner core!   Alright, so Jesse`s lips are considerably thicker than the artist rendering is, but that could be because the rape victim couldn`t remember that feature so clearly, when advising the police artist, under duress as they were. Although, I will say, the noses were very close! They have DNA (from 2009), so we anxiously await the forensic reports; and after the seizures at his apartment, along with the confiscation of that bomb, a 1998 burnt orange Chrysler coupe, maybe they can compare it to evidence in Morgan`s case. Okay, one more item...  In Lexington, Virginia we hear of a possible spotting of someone resembling the Morgan Harrington suspect, that is rather, a look alike to this aforementioned creepy sketch, that`s been circulating for quite a few years. If this is real, `cuz we`re not getting a whole heck of a lot of specific data, as far as who saw this phantom, and under what circumstances they caught a gander of him (or how closely he resembled the mesmerizingly frightening sketch), then this fact alone will be the nemesis of my hair-brained theory.   If I`m proved wrong, I`ll pardon myself in advance, since I know it`s only by testing out our theories, will we be able to apprehend an elusive fugitive we might have, at one time, been able to identify as The Truth.   On the other hand, the notion that each of these cases are autonomous, and that each has its own unique culprit, (this should include Hannah Graham`s too), is less probable (to me, at least), than the idea that they`re bound together by one single malignant serial perpetrator, who`s been plying his demonic trade for something like 5 years now. I favor, one man is doing it all!  http://www.wdbj7.com/news/local/lexington-rockbridge/possible-sighting-of-suspect-in-morgan-harrington-case/28095082  








internet marketing






















Comment on this story, by emailing Judyth Piazza at comment@thesop.org  or join the SOP friend network with your Google, Yahoo, AOL, MSN or one ID account located on the front page of http://www.thesop.org























Subscribe to theSOP's Opinion feed.Subscribe to theSOP's Opinion audio podcast.Subscribe to John G. Kays feed.Subscribe to theSOP's John G. Kays audio podcast.























Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Feedjit Live Blog Stats













Home | Celebrity Interviews | Author Interviews | Politics | Entertainment | Religion | Battle of the Bands | US News | Contact Us | About Us

Any opinions expressed on this website are those of the contributor and do not necessarily reflect those of The Student Operated Press

Copyright (c) 2005-2013 - theSOP - All Rights ReservedUse of this website is subject to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy         




 














