Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond | WTKR.com  
Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

72°







72°


Low 49°
High 74°





Tue


					59°  80°
					


Wed


					63°  79°
					


Thu


					62°  75°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond

Posted 2:27 pm, September 24, 2014, by Matt Knight, Holly Henry and Doris Taylor, Updated at 03:29pm, September 25, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 





(CNN) – A Texas judge Thursday ordered Jesse Matthew, the suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, held without bond pending his extradition to Virginia.
In an appearance before Galveston County Judge Mark Henry, Matthew declined to request a court-appointed attorney to fight either his extradition or a Galveston County charge of giving false information to a peace officer.
Henry later told CNN affiliate KPRC that he expects Virginia authorities to collect Matthew “within a day or two.”
Authorities found Matthew on a Texas beach some 1,300 miles from where he’s wanted in the disappearance.

‘He’s as gentle as they come,’ says dad of abduction suspect in Hannah Graham case
Specific technology alerted authorities that suspect Jesse Matthew was on the run

“We have a person in custody, but there’s a long road ahead of us, and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters Wednesday night.
Matthew, who had been sought on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile, was arrested in Galveston County. He was found on the beach Wednesday afternoon in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, according to the Galveston County Sheriff’s Office.
Deputies were tipped off to Matthew’s whereabouts when they got a call about a suspicious person camping on the beach. One responded and ran the license plate of that person’s vehicle. It came back as wanted, CNN affiliate KPRC reported.
Matthew did not resist arrest, KPRC said.
Earlier, Matthew’s lawyer had little to say about his client.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” James Camblos said outside his Charlottesville office.

“I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not,” he said.
His comments came a day after authorities obtained an arrest warrant for his client, who police believe was the last person with Graham.
Matthew willingly went to a police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest, Longo said. He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, the police chief said.
Authorities are now offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
They have received 1,500 tips so far in the case and are urging anyone with information to call the police tip line at 434-295-3851.
Graham was last seen on September 13th in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Investigators have been looking for her since, and over an increasingly large area.

“We’re asking for a broader community search with property owners,” Longo told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360″ on Wednesday night.
Specifically, he said he wants owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities have previously searched Matthew’s apartment and car. Although they have declined to discuss the specifics of what might have been found, potential evidence was sent to a lab for analysis.





Mug shots from Hampton Roads arrests


Suffolk’s Most Wanted: August 2014


Taking Action Against Crime


Photos: U.S. Marshals on the hunt for fugitives who may be hiding in Hampton Roads



Filed in: News 








			8 comments		




 

knothead

Of course not,can’t have the crooks they call DA’s looking like they are wrong.Randy said black guy left with her.




							September 24, 2014 at 3:38 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

The People

Ok  so if u got a job in Charlottesville… why would u go to Texas at the spurr of the moment…hummm fishy stuff !!




							September 24, 2014 at 7:47 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Go Tides!

Get a rope and hang him high, Wild West style!




							September 25, 2014 at 7:58 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Nyck82

If he didn’t abduct Hannah than he should be put in jail for wasting precious time which could have been spent on finding the true abductor. If he didn’t do it he should have went to the police station and settled it with them. Now the true abductor will be long gone. If they have the wrong guy! But he made himself more suspicious when he left so quickly. Maybe he was about to go into Mexico? Maybe that is why he knows Texas all to well.




							September 25, 2014 at 8:49 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

C

Can you fix the typo in the first paragraph? “The” suspect – not thr.




							September 25, 2014 at 9:08 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Just cause

Because that is absolutely the most important issue regarding this article. Well done. Way to look beyond one’s life to worry about grammar.




							September 25, 2014 at 12:42 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

bruh mane from da fowth flo

oochie wally wally oochie bling bling look like cracktavius got caught this time well he will do good up  in the klink with that matted dog hair oooh you gots a purty mouth boy gimme them purple lips




							September 26, 2014 at 4:01 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

create place page

There’s definately a lot to find out about this topic. I really like all of the points you
have made.




							September 26, 2014 at 9:11 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






The NewsChannel 3 App Center
Get the latest news and Live VIPIR Radar on your phone!







 

 


Popular



Couple together 34 years will receive first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach after SCOTUS rejects appeals



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Multi-million dollar lawsuit accuses Virginia Wesleyan lacrosse player of rape



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Surf for the Cure in Virginia Beach



Time-lapse video: Crew of the USS Bataan washes down the flight deck















News

Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit



 


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital



 


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

Charlottesville Police Chief asks community to inspect vacant property, report to police


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts













































Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,333 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















