 Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit  | WTKR.com  
 Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit  | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

72°







72°


Low 49°
High 74°





Tue


					59°  80°
					


Wed


					63°  79°
					


Thu


					62°  75°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit

Posted 6:07 pm, September 21, 2014, by Erica Greenway, Updated at 07:07pm, September 21, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 




Charlottesville, Va. – An arrest warrant has been issued for Jesse Matthew, the man with dreadlocks spotted on surveillance video that police believe has information about missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, after he sped away from police headquarters Saturday.
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said that 32-year-old Matthew walked into the station and asked for a lawyer late Saturday afternoon. After talking with a lawyer, Longo said Matthew left the station after about an hour and got into a vehicle with another person and sped off, according to WTVR.
As a result, state and federal investigators followed the vehicle, but had to give up the pursuit because Matthew was speeding.
“They were overtly, not covertly, monitoring Matthew’s movement.  He left a location in Albermarle County at a high rate of speed, so much so that he put others in danger,” Longo said.
Accordingly, Virginia State Police have charged Matthew with two counts of reckless driving and warrants have been issued for his arrest.
On Sunday, Hannah Graham’s father held up his daughter’s favorite stuffed rabbit for reporters to see.
It was given to her by one of his friends when she was a baby, and it became her constant companion and friend.

The rabbit disappeared for a few months when Graham was around 3, he said, but eventually was found and returned.
“All we want to do now is to bring Hannah home safely, and I appeal to anybody who knows anything — please, please help us,” John Graham said Sunday.
More than a week has passed since his daughter disappeared, and police are certain that somebody must know something.
“Somebody’s got to know where she is, and we want to know who that person or persons are,” said Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo.
Specifically, authorities want to talk to Jesse Matthew, a man Longo believes was the last person with Graham.
Graham, 18, was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the downtown mall.
Using surveillance video and witness statements, authorities have tracked Graham along the mall, where she was seen walking with a man Longo thinks was Matthew.
“I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth,” the police chief said. “We want to talk to him.”
Authorities have searched Matthew’s apartment and car but have declined to say what — if anything — was found. They are offering a $50,000 reward for “information leading to the cause” of Graham’s disappearance.
The police chief added: “I hope and pray that we might have an opportunity to talk to Jesse Matthew again because I think he can help up find Hannah Graham.”
CNN contributed to this report.


Mug shots from Hampton Roads arrests


Suffolk’s Most Wanted: August 2014


Taking Action Against Crime


Photos: U.S. Marshals on the hunt for fugitives who may be hiding in Hampton Roads




Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News 











 






The NewsChannel 3 App Center
Get the latest news and Live VIPIR Radar on your phone!







 

 


Popular



Couple together 34 years will receive first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach after SCOTUS rejects appeals



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Multi-million dollar lawsuit accuses Virginia Wesleyan lacrosse player of rape



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Surf for the Cure in Virginia Beach



Time-lapse video: Crew of the USS Bataan washes down the flight deck















News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond


News

Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today



 


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham



 


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham   


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,333 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















