Legal expert: Hannah Graham feared dead, Jesse Matthew's silence suggests involvement | WJLA.com 
Legal expert: Hannah Graham feared dead, Jesse Matthew's silence suggests involvement | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Legal expert: Hannah Graham feared dead, Jesse Matthew's silence suggests involvement

By Skip Wood

			October 3, 2014 - 05:33 pm 
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



ARLINGTON, Va. (WJLA) –  They’re the would-be rescuers. They dearly want to find Hannah Graham. 
Continue reading





Jesse Matthew and Hannah Graham. (AP photos)



More on this story


Complete coverage: Search for Hannah Graham



They scour the land immediately around Charlottsville and beyond. They hope to find her alive.
They hope.
They yearn for something that’s counter to what their head tells them, and yet an unsettling and more realistic-by-the-day thought is bound to further invade their psyches.
Namely, that the now three-week old search effort for the missing University of Virginia student likely has transitioned to a search for her body as hopes that she may still be alive have dwindled.
That’s the word from noted D.C.-area legal expert and attorney A. Scott Bolden, who verbalized Friday on NewsChannel 8’s NewsTalk what a lot of people fear.
“From the prosecution side. . .they want to find the body, they want to find Hannah,” said Bolden, who has no direct involvement in the case. “Right now, we don’t know whether she’s dead or alive, quite frankly. Right now, she’s missing. So they’re going to expand that search. . .” 
Bottom line?
“They want to find that body,” Bolden said. “That body will tell them, if there is one out there, it will tell them a great deal.”
And what of the chief suspect, L.J. Matthew, now in custody? 
“There’s a reason he’s not talking,” Bolden said, “because think about it, if he had nothing to do with it. . .then he’d come in and say that.”
Matthew also has been linked to the unsolved murder of Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington, and has been linked to at least two other sexual assault cases.
Police say there are DNA links to the Graham and Harrington cases but have remained mum on details. 
Which brings us back to the search for Graham. 
“The government has to make their case,” Bolden said. “. . .If Hannah is dead, then they’re going to need the body in order to prove that.
“They don’t necessarily have to have it but it’s very difficult without a body to examine, to present and to bring a murder charge.”


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Morgan Harrington, 
Jesse Matthew, 
L.J. Matthew, 
A. Scott Bolden, 
Newstalk, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Virginia, 
Missing Student, 
University Of Virginia








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



D.C. Council to consider 'revenge porn' bills



Accused Stafford Co. teacher purportedly admits to sexual relationships with four students



Man sexually assaults pair of Laurel girls on their way to middle school












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



2 possible Ebola patients in isolation at D.C. area hospitals









Beheading video of British hostage Alan Henning released by Islamic State group
















How to watch the Washington Nationals playoff games on TV









What is Ebola? How does it spread? Who is at risk?









Well-known D.C. bartender, Joe Madden, thought to have gone missing turns up in New Orleans









United contacting those who flew in/out of Dulles Airport with Ebola victim









Police arrest Bowie murder suspect with tattoo-laden face





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

