Tempo Bar: We did not serve missing UVa. student Hannah Graham alcohol | WTVR.com  
Tempo Bar: We did not serve missing UVa. student Hannah Graham alcohol | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Tempo Bar owner: We did not serve Hannah Graham alcohol

Posted 12:37 pm, September 25, 2014, by Web Staff, Updated at 12:57pm, September 25, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTEVILLE,  Va. — The owner of the bar where missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham was last spotted before vanishing without a trace has released a statement.
Brice Cunningham, the owner of Tempo Restaurant, said in a statement Thursday that Graham was never served alcohol and not actually seen inside the restaurant.
“She was, however, noticed by the door-person outside the restaurant at that time, and seen leaving with [Jesse] Matthew shortly thereafter. These details helped police reconstruct Ms. Graham’s movements and last known whereabouts,” Cunningham said.
Additionally, Cunningham said the business has been fully cooperating with police. In fact, the bar turned over credit card information that Cunningham said was able to pinpoint Matthew’s location.
“Details of credit card receipts showed that he had made purchases at the bar shortly after midnight while Hannah was still making her way towards the downtown mall from Preston Avenue. Those records also confirm that he returned to Tempo at 1:10 am and left shortly after…”
Police said last week that witnesses told investigators they saw Graham and Matthew enter Tempo and that Matthew bought alcohol.
Hannah Graham suspect found camping on Texas beach
Matthew, 32, was arrested after he was discovered camping on the beach in Gilchrist, Texas on the Bolivar Peninsula Wednesday afternoon. When they ran his license plate number around 3:30 p.m., they found out he was wanted in Virginia. He was charged with giving false information to a police officer.
“For his Galveston County charge, I assume we’re probably going to have to defer to Virginia,” Galveston County Judge Mark Henry  said. “I suspect they’ll be down here to extradite him in a day or two. “
READ MORE: Jesse Matthew, man wanted in Hannah Graham abduction, waives extradition in Texas court
A federal law enforcement source confirmed a phone call made from a borrowed cell phone in Louisiana, to Virginia, is how police first discovered Jesse Matthew was out of the state and on the run.
For over 10 days police have been aggressively coordinating search efforts and collecting information surrounding the  disappearance  of the second-year University of Virginia student.
Witness accounts and surveillance video led police to obtain a search warrant for Matthew’s car, and then his home. Then two days later police returned to his home in Hessian Hills, searching for clothes and took more evidence.
As some evidence came back from forensics testing, police issued an arrest warrant for Matthew, for abduction with intent to defile.



Hannah’s disappearance still boggles community
New missing person poster released reflects increased reward.
On the evening of September 12, she was seen at a party before friends saw her at an apartment complex a couple of blocks away from the party. That was shortly before midnight.
About 12:45 a.m. on September 13, a surveillance camera caught Graham outside of a pub, about three-quarters of a mile from the apartment complex. A doorman turned her away at the pub, Longo said Sunday.
Ten minutes later, she is seen running past a gas station — no one appears to be pursuing her — and witnesses say they saw her five minutes later roughly four blocks from the gas station.
The surveillance camera at an Italian cafe captured her walking along the pedestrian outdoor mall in downtown Charlottesville, about 1:06 a.m. The camera at a jewelry store recorded her passing two minutes later, with Matthew walking beside her, police said.
At 1:20 a.m. she texted her friends to say she was lost and trying to find a party. She was seen with a man said to be Matthew, who had drinks at Tempo between 1:30 and 2 a.m..
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
READ NOW: Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.
What’s next? 
Hannah Graham’s location is still unknown, and she’s been missing twelve days.
Police have interviewed 60 people and received more than 100 tips in the case, police said. Last weekend, more than 1,200 volunteers and Virginia Department of Emergency Management officials spent the weekend searching for clues that would lead them to Graham.
As time passes, the search area grows, investigators say. As word spread that Matthew had been arrested, neighbors said they hoped police could now just focus on finding Hannah, and hopefully safe.



The city of Charlottesville, the University of Virginia and the local community have contributed $100,000 to a reward for “information leading to the cause” of Graham’s disappearance. Anyone with info is asked to call the tipline

Police are encouraging residents to check their properties. And still, police hope anyone with information will come forward.
Anyone who saw Matthew’s burnt-orange 1998 Chrysler coupe on Saturday, Sept. 13,  should call the police tip line  at 434-295-3851.
All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.
Depend on CBS 6 News and WTVR.com for the latest updates on this important story. 


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Jesse Matthew 








			12 comments		




 

CRUSHING

I believe her a$$ was drunk before she when to the bars!!!! Trying to be grown when you’re still a little girl




							September 25, 2014 at 1:31 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Janet Ticklebottom

GurrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrllllllllllllllllllllllL…………………….. PLEASE.




							September 26, 2014 at 8:03 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Tom

Ah, yes.  Victim-blaming.  Because I’m sure that you’ve never been intoxicated, and not had all your wits about you.
If you had been, it surely would have been OK for someone to victimize you, right?




							September 27, 2014 at 11:58 am						

Reply
Report comment









 

kim

hmmm, a very conflicting turn of events. Bar owner says she was never there and never served alcohol while eye witnesses say she was there with Matthew and that they saw him buy her drinks. Interesting. Prosecutors have work to do.




							September 25, 2014 at 1:39 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

BUG

I can’t understand why she keep roaming around after she text saying she was lost. Why didn’t they tell her to wait for them or tell her which way to go.




							September 25, 2014 at 2:48 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

WHO

Of course the Bar owner says they never saw or served her……..especially now that they know she is 18 YEARS OLD.  Last time I checked, the legal drinking age in Virginia was 21.  “Ain’t nothing wrong…….but something ain’t right.”




							September 25, 2014 at 3:42 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Guest13579

Yeah something doesn’t add up. They were seen together before he bought drinks in the bar. So, what, he was like hey Hannah wait outside here for awhile while I go in and get some drinks. And she just stood around by the door waiting for a total stranger? That doesn’t make sense. The owner didn’t even know Jesse was there twice until he looked through the bar receipts so how can he say for sure that Hannah wasn’t in there?




							September 25, 2014 at 9:02 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Numeaning

That’s exactly correct. And you also have to consider the TEMPO only has a license to serve alcohol until 1AM, as their sign in the video states: Mon-Sat  4:30 PM -1AM. So if  more people won’t talk to police, we may never know about those CRITICAL CLUES IN THE TIMELINE
 that will reveal who was with Hannah Graham AFTER 1AM that mysterious morning.




							September 28, 2014 at 11:26 am						

Reply
Report comment









 

wiseman

Tempo know they serve that girl they scare and I bet you they have serve more student  stuff to drink.




							September 25, 2014 at 11:58 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

S. Scott

Does anyone know whether Hannah’s cell phone log shows whether she contacted Jesse prior to their meeting in the vicinity of the Tempo?  I haven’t heard police mention any details of her cell phone logs, whether texts or phone calls.  Or did Jesse’s phone log show any prior contact with Hannah?  Or did he make a call from someone else’s phone to Hannah?  Bar receipts show that Jesse bought a drink at the bar shortly after midnight.  Hannah was walking/running hurriedly towards the downtown area during that time, and apparently didn’t arrive until around 1 a.m.  Was she late for an appointment to meet someone?  Just wondering.




							September 26, 2014 at 7:10 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

BUG

The news I heard this morning on WRVA the bar said he had 2 beers while she was outside. When he left she was leaning on him when they walked.




							September 26, 2014 at 9:17 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Morning Dew

He could have slipped her something, then went in the bar and waited for the drug to take effect.




							September 26, 2014 at 9:48 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’



 


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

Police: Man with dreads went into bar with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

Jesse Matthew, UVa. student Hannah Graham abduction suspect, arrested in Texas


News

Don’t assume there is ‘irrefutable DNA evidence’ against Jesse Matthew






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


















































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 
















