Hannah Graham suspect Jesse Matthew under investigation for 2009 murder | Communities Digital News 
Hannah Graham suspect Jesse Matthew under investigation for 2009 murder | Communities Digital News








		                		Communities Digital News		                	



 






 















DW Focus














Politics

Economic Politics
Independents
Liberal
Conservative
Libertarian
Tea Party


World

Africa
Egypt
Europe
Middle East
Russia
The Americas
World Voices


Science

Health
Environment


Life

Car Review
Daily Musings
History
Family
Food – Restaurants to Recipes
Wine, Beer and Spirits


Sports

Boxing
College Football
Hockey
MLB
NBA
NFL
Soccer
WWE / MMA


Travel

U.S.
Caribbean
Central America
France
Germany
Italy
Switzerland
Western Europe


Business

Business of Education
Business News and Announcements
Careers
Economics & Economy
Legal, Insurance & Marketing Experts
Stocks and Bonds
Tech


Entertain Us

Books
CDs & DVDs
Galleries and Museums
Media News and Reviews
Movies
Music
Performing Arts
TV, Cable, and Streaming Video


Write for CommDigiNews
 






 Trending Now 

One year later: The rise and fail of ObamaCare - 25 mins ago
President Obama’s dissolution began and will end with Obamacare - 27 mins ago
Dancing With The Stars: you be the judge, Monday, 8pm Live Chat - 34 mins ago
LIVE CHAT: Dancing With The Stars – Fans judgment here!  8pm est - 37 mins ago
Young, gifted and trans: 12 inspirational trans leaders under 30 - about 1 hour ago


 
 








 






Lifelines Hannah Graham suspect Jesse Matthew under investigation for 2009 murder
By Susan L. Ruth, Communities Digital News


LifeSeptember 29, 2014 






The missing girls of Charlottesville


WASHINGTON, September 29, 2014 — Virginia State Police announced that Jesse L. Matthew Jr., the suspect in the disappearance of Hannah Graham, is now under investigation for the 2009 abduction and murder of Morgan Harrington.
Earlier, police said the arrest of Jesse L. Matthew, Jr. has provided a “significant break” in the investigation into the death and disappearance of Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington, who went missing during a concert in Charlottesville, Virginia.
The statement issued by Virginia State Police public relations director read, “Last week, the arrest of Jesse L. Matthew Jr., 32, of Charlottesville, Va., provided a significant break in this case with a new forensic link for state police investigators to pursue. There is a still a great deal of work to be done in regards to this investigation and we appreciate the public’s patience as we move forward.”
The specifics of the “link” have not yet been publicly released.
Although the Harrington family released to the press that the connection was discovered during the search of the suspect’s home and car.
The latest news came after Jesse Matthew was detained in Galveston, Texas and was extradited to Virginia on charges in the disappearance of Hannah Graham.
Police reported during a press conference that evidence taken from Jesse Matthew’s home and car will also be compared to any evidence from additional missing women cases.
Matthew was questioned in 2002 in connection to a sexual assault case at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Virginia, but was never charged. Lynchburg police reported that Matthew said the encounter was consensual and there were no witnesses to back up the woman’s claim. The student decided not to pursue the case.

READ ALSO:  Examining the night Hannah Graham disappeared; $100,000 reward offered


On October 17, 2009, Morgan Harrington, a 20 year old Virginia Tech student, went to Charlottesville with friends to attend a Metallica concert.
During the concert, Harrington somehow found herself outside of the concert venue without her ticket or car keys when going to the restroom.
Harrington explained to her friends during a phone call around 8:45 p.m. she was unable to get back in to the concert due to the arena’s policy and they should not worry about her, as she would find her own way home.
Morgan encountered three members of the UVA men’s basketball team in the parking lot. Harrington asked them for a ride, but they declined as they had somewhere else they were expected that evening. The basketball players have been extensively questioned and ruled out as suspects.
A UVA student and her father reported seeing Harrington around 9:30 p.m. hitchhiking, presumably attempting to make her way across the 150 miles back to Blacksburg, Virginia and Virginia Tech. When the father passed the same location a few moments later after dropping his daughter at her dorm, the hitchhiker was gone.
On January 26, 2010, the remains of Morgan Harrington were discovered in a remote field, ten miles from the John Paul Jones Arena.
Her parents told the media their daughter had been raped and died a violent death.
The rape sketch
There has never been any arrest for the death of Morgan Harrington, but in 2011 it was confirmed the person who killed her was linked to a 2005 rape in Fairfax, Virginia by DNA. The rape victim survived and worked with a police artist on a composite sketch. She described her attacker as an average sized African American man between the ages of 25 and 35.
Four other girls of a similar age to Graham and Harrington have also gone missing in Charlottesville under suspicious circumstances over the last five years.

READ ALSO:  Update: Hannah Graham: Five missing in Charlottesville in five years

Samantha Ann Clarke
The disappearance of Samantha Clarke has not received the same attention as the cases of Harrington or Graham, although there are similarities between the cases.
On September 13, 2010, 19-year-old Clarke told her then 14-year-old brother she was going out and would be back, but Samantha Clarke never came back.
Clarke left the house without taking any personal items or identification.
Clarke and her brother, Hunter, were home alone that night at their home in Orange County, about 40 minutes northeast from the University of Virginia, while their mother worked the night shift.
Clarke’s mother received two phone calls around 12:30 a.m. from the home number but their mother, Barbara Tinder was not allowed to use the phone until a break at 1:30 a.m. When she called, Hunter answered and reported he had not made the phone calls.
The family of Clarke believe that she went to meet some new “friends” who they had never met.
Orange County police say all clues in this case led to Greene County, an area 30 minutes north of Virginia’s flagship University, but Samantha Clarke is still missing.
Just this September, almost exactly four years after Clarke disappeared, police divers spent days in a lake in Greene County searching for the missing teen. Once again, they came up empty handed.
One of the most intriguing aspects of the Samantha Clarke case is her friendship with Randy Taylor, a man who plays a central role in another young woman’s disappearance.
Alexis Murphy
On August 3, 2013, 17-year-old Alexis Murphy left her home in Shipman, Virginia and headed to Lynchburg to get her hair done.
Murphy was last seen at a gas station in Lovingston, Virginia, 30 minutes south of Charlottesville.
Surveillance video shows Randy Taylor holding the door to the gas station shop for Murphy. Taylor had been parked at the gas pump next to Murphy, although he did not buy any gas that day.
When walking out of the store, Murphy turned her head as though someone said something to her then approached Taylor’s SUV and spoke to him.
After the brief conversation, Taylor headed toward Charlottesville, followed by Murphy in her car.
The next night, Murphy’s car was spotted by another camera parked at a Charlottesville movie theatre. It is too dark for the camera to capture the driver.
Taylor is spotted at an Applebee’s Restaurant near the theatre 30 minutes later.
A torn fingernail, hair, fake eyelashes and blood on a tee shirt are found three days later and, according to police the DNA results, matches Alexis Murphy.
Taylor was found guilty of murder in the commission of an abduction and abduction with the intent to defile.
The judge sentenced Taylor to two life terms, but through his attorney, he insisted that there was a third man involved who actually did the killing. He said that for a sentence of 20 years, he would reveal the location of Murphy’s body.
The family of Alexis Murphy declined the offer saying that they would not bargain with a murderer.
DaShad Laquinn Smith
Smith is a transgender woman who has not been seen since November 20, 2012 when she was just 19-years-old.
Smith was last seen on the 500 block of west Main Street in Charlottesville, Virginia around 6:30 p.m.
Smith, who dressed as both a man and a woman, was supposed to meet up with a man at an Amtrak Station on November 20 but never showed up.
After a few days without contact and a missed Thanksgiving dinner, her family notified police.
Police have searched the Charlottesville area to include a landfill but no clues have been found.
Erik McFadden
Investigators would like to speak with Erik T. McFadden, who Smith was expected to meet the night she disappeared.
McFadden told police he had traveled to New York City the week Smith went missing and then stopped responding to calls.
He had attended Lincoln University in Pennsylvania and had just moved to Charlottesville in 2012.
The police are not clear about the relationship between McFadden and Smith, and McFadden has not been charged with a crime but is a person of interest in the case.
It is as if McFadden has also disappeared.
This case remains unsolved.
Hannah Graham
Now Hannah Graham has gone missing from the same area.
On September 23, an arrest warrant was issued for Jesse Matthew for abduction with the intent to defile, the same crime Taylor was charged with in the Murphy case.
Jesse Matthew
Matthew has not been seen since he eluded police over the weekend after telling them he had bought Graham drinks but then they left separately the night she disappeared.
It is also worth noting that two sexual assaults took place in Charlottesville the weekend Graham went missing.
One involved another UVA female student and the other a Charlottesville resident. Both instances occurred in the areas Graham was last seen.
Police as well as volunteers are continuing their search for Graham and for any clues of the unsolved cases.


This article is the copyrighted property of the writer and Communities Digital News, LLC. Written permission must be obtained before reprint in online or print media. REPRINTING CONTENT WITHOUT PERMISSION AND/OR PAYMENT IS THEFT AND PUNISHABLE BY LAW.



Sharing
















Tags

Charlottesville, crime, Hannah Graham, Missing Persons, murder, Virginia 





 

Susan L. Ruth
Susan L. Ruth is a long-time Washington, DC resident with extensive ties throughout the community.  She is a genealogical researcher and writer, and is an active volunteer in the Northern Virginia competitive swimming community.  Susan previously worked providing life-skills to head injured adults. 

Susan and her husband Kerry currently live in Northern Virginia with their three sons, Ryley, Casey and Jack and their American Bulldog, Leila.






Related posts





 



Examining the night Hannah Graham disappeared; $100,000 reward offered







 



Update: Hannah Graham: Five missing in Charlottesville in five years







 



Peterson child abuse indictment highlights NFL’s violent culture













Tom Turrise



I think it’s time to exterminate this “pavement ape”.






Jack Ross



The importance of the right to bear arms is becoming more and more clear.











 



 News from idealmedia.com

 



Vote Now! Check out CommDigiNews Polls on LockerDome on LockerDome
 



Entertainment News 


 


34 mins ago

Dancing With The Stars: you be the judge, Monday, 8pm Live Chat



37 mins ago

LIVE CHAT: Dancing With The Stars – Fans judgment here!  8pm est



2 hours ago

Is Russia losing the media war to the USA?



1 day ago

The Judge Robert Downey Jr. – David Dobkin appear at Heartland Film Festival



October 2, 2014

PHOTO REVIEW: Hank 3 live at The Observatory

 



NewsletterEmail address: 

Zip Code:

Communities Digital News LLC 
Advertising Insertion Order
Advertising Insertion Order (Radio)
Breaking News – CommDigiNews Hour on Blog Talk Radio
Contact
Contributor Terms and Agreements
Entertainment and Sports Headlines
Media / Advertising
Newsletter
Privacy Policy
Who We Are / Masthead
Write for CommDigiNews
Writer Directory

Blogroll

Allen West Republic
Capitalism Blog Spot
Hail Mary Food of Grace
Joe for America
Lucianne
Tea Party Nation
Textarudo – Don't Text and Drive
The Conservative Guy
The Magellan Travel Club
The Rush Limbaugh Show
The Tygrrrr Express
The Voice of Liberty
Thoughts on Liberty
Web Exordium











Communities Digital News  Life Hannah Graham suspect Jesse Matthew under investigation for 2009 murder







Copyright © 2014 by Communities Digital News, LLC.Communities Digital News, LLC is registered in the State of Maryland (01/2013).


Communities Digital News




Top






