Police charge Jesse Matthew with abduction with intent to defile, in case of missing UVA student Hannah Graham - NY Daily News 

Police charge Jesse Matthew with abduction with intent to defile, in case of missing UVA student Hannah Graham - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Police charge Jesse Matthew with abduction with intent to defile, in case of missing UVA student Hannah Graham Jesse Matthew, the last person seen with 18-year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, is charged with abducting her. She disappeared Sept. 13, police said. The 32-year-old has worked at the school’s medical center since 2012.   BY   Deborah Hastings    ,    Meg Wagner   NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Tuesday, September 23, 2014, 7:49 AM Updated: Tuesday, September 23, 2014, 10:06 PM  A A A        Share this URL                 Police have charged Jesse Matthew with abduction with intent to defile in the case of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham and are on the lookout for him.    
	Police have charged Jesse (L.J.) Matthew with the abduction of missing University of Virgina student Hannah Graham.

	Matthew is on the lam, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters late Tuesday. The 270-pound, 32-year-old suspect was seen on videotape with the girl at an outdoor downtown shopping mall. Police had twice searched his apartment, most recently on Monday.

	He is charged with abduction with intent to defile. The girl has not been seen since Sept. 13. Investigators were waiting on lab reports from clothes taken Monday from Matthew's home.

	He has worked as a patient technician at the University Medical Center on the school's campus since 2012.     HANDOUT/Reuters Jesse Matthew was charged Tuesday with abduction with intent to defile in the case of missing University of Virginai student Hannah Graham. He has been a person of interest in the high-profile case.   

	Charlottesville officers have eyed Graham since Friday, when police spotted him in surveillance video with the 18-year-old the morning she disappeared.

	He is also charged with reckless driving after he left a police station Saturday without answering questions. Police have been looking for him ever since.

	He led police on a high-speed chase before eventually slipping away.      

	"We've reached that point that the commonwealth thought we had sufficient probable cause for an arrest warrant," Longo said Tuesday evening. "We obtained an arrest warrant for Jesse Matthew charging him with the class two felony of abduction with intent to defile."

	This isn't Matthew's first run-in with police: his criminal history includes several traffic violations and trespassing charges from 2010, NBC 29 reported.

	After the two apartment raids Friday and Monday, both of Matthew's roommates moved out, his landlord told the TV station.       Facebook 
	Graham went missing earlier this month. Enlarge      Facebook 
	She was last seen with Matthew, police said. Enlarge  
	Graham went to dinner with friends and an apartment for a party before she got lost downtown and vanished, police said.
  

	Graham went missing Sept. 13 after a night of partying, police said. She hopped between a few locations — a restaurant for dinner with friends and a second apartment building for a party — before she got lost downtown around 12:15 a.m.

	Surveillance video captured Matthew putting his arm around Graham outside of a downtown mall about 1 a.m. The two went into a restaurant, where Matthew bought drinks, and they left in his burnt orange 1998 Chrysler Coupe.

	"I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth because it's been a week and we can't find her,"  Longo said Sunday.      Charlottesville Police Department Graham and Matthew left a bar in his burnt orange car the night she vanished, police said.    Ryan M. Kelly/AP Volunteers spent the weekend hunting for any trace of the 18-year-old.    Andrew Shurtleff/AP Professional search-and-rescue teams picked up where the volunteers left off Monday.    Charlottesville Police Department Charlottesville police said Matthew was caught on camera putting his arm around the sophomore the night she went missing.    Previous Next        Enlarge  

	After about 2,000 volunteers spent the weekend hunting through the city for any trace of Graham, elite search teams covered remaining ground Monday.

	The professional teams especially eyed an area of dense woods the volunteers didn't get to Saturday and Sunday, NBC 29 reported.

With News Wire Services

On a mobile device? Click here to watch video.    Related Stories  Home of man seen with missing UVa student searched again       Man seen with missing UVA student wanted for reckless driving        2,000 volunteers hunt for missing UVA student       'Major break' in hunt for UVA student Hannah Graham: cops       Mom of slain Va. student sees similarities in missing Hannah Graham case       Man followed missing UVA student on night she vanished: video          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Queen Elizabeth dubs Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog       7   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      8   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     9   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     10   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      