Mother of Va. Tech student slain in 2009 sees similarities between daughter and missing UVA sophomore Hannah Graham  - NY Daily News 

Mother of Va. Tech student slain in 2009 sees similarities between daughter and missing UVA sophomore Hannah Graham  - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Mother of Va. Tech student slain in 2009 sees similarities between daughter and missing UVA sophomore Hannah Graham  Five years before Graham, a 18-year-old University of Virginia sophomore, vanished during a night out in Charlottesville last week, Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, also disappeared. Harrington's body was recovered in a field four months later but her killer was never caught.  BY   Nina Golgowski     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Thursday, September 18, 2014, 6:43 PM  A A A        Share this URL                   AP 
	Virginia Tech student Morgan Dana Harrington, 20, vanished while attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville, Va. in 2009. Four months later her body was recovered in a nearby field. Enlarge      AP 
	The mother of slain college student Morgan Harrington says there are a number of similarities between her daughter's disappearance and 18-year-old (pictured) Hannah Elizabeth Graham's. Enlarge  
	The mother of Morgan Harrington (left), who was abducted and killed five years ago in Charlottesville, says there are 'coincidences' between her daughter's case and Hannah Elizabeth Graham's (right).
   
	It was five years ago, in the same Virginia city where 18-year-old Hannah Graham disappeared last week, that 20-year-old Morgan Harrington was mysteriously abducted and killed.

	The person responsible was never found, and now Harrington's mother fears that her killer may have struck again after finding "coincidences" between the two cases.

	"College town, same town, same kind of look of a girl, same time of year," Gill Harrington told ABC. "Is this a pattern?"

	Her radiant daughter, a Virginia Tech student, was attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009 when she became separated from friends and disappeared.    Charlottesville Police Department Police released new surveillance pictures of Hannah Elizabeth Graham as the search continued for the teen who they believe went missing on her way home from a party on Saturday.   

	Some of the places Graham was last seen are near where her daughter's shirt was found "maybe three weeks after her abduction," she said.

	Tragically four months after Harrington was reported missing, her body was recovered three miles away in a field.

	The FBI said DNA evidence recovered from the scene was found linked to a sexual assault of a woman in Fairfax City, Va., in 2005.     This sketch of a man wanted in connection to Harrington's 2009 abduction was released shortly after she disappeared. Her family is offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the person or persons responsible.   

	That victim was walking home from a grocery store when she told police she was grabbed from behind, dragged behind a maintenance shed and attacked.

	Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo, reflecting on both missing person cases at a press conference Wednesday, admitted that there are similarities between the young women.

	"Both of them occurred within the proximity of the University of Virginia. Both of them are young girls," he said.    ABC News Gill Harrington, the mother of a Virginia student who was abducted and slain in 2009, is seen beside her husband shortly after her daughter's abduction. Five years later, her killer has not been caught.   

	One of the major differences at this time, however, is that Graham's case has not been ruled as criminal.

	On Thursday, police released a description of a "person of interest" in the case after interviewing a man who was filmed following her in the early hours of Sept. 13.

	The man described as black, in his late 20s, early 30s, with a close-shaved head and goatee and between 250-285 pounds is wanted for questioning by police.

	He was last seen wearing black jeans and a white T-shirt while allegedly putting his arm around the student while walking in the Downtown Mall around 1 a.m.

ngolgowski@nydailynews.com    Related Stories  Man followed missing UVA student on night she vanished: video       Details, videos emerge in missing UVA student case       SEE IT: Metallica assists FBI in slain fan probe       Police confirm remains belong to Morgan Harrington; Va. Tech student vanished from Metallica concert       Metallica aids search for Virginia Tech student Morgan Dana Harrington missing from concert          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Queen Elizabeth dubs Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog       7   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      8   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     9   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     10   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      