Police: Missing Mo., woman left to seek new life | fox4kc.com  
Police: Missing Mo., woman left to seek new life | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 49°
High 67°





Tue


					53°  75°
					


Wed


					54°  77°
					


Thu


					58°  70°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police: Missing Mo., woman left to seek new life

Posted 5:56 am, July 30, 2014, by AP Wire, Updated at 05:57am, July 30, 2014 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 
SULLIVAN, Mo. (AP) — An eastern Missouri woman missing for three weeks has apparently turned up, and police say she simply left the area to start a new life elsewhere.
KMOV-TV reports that 40-year-old Becky Vaughn of the Sullivan, Missouri, area was reported missing July 8.
Vaughn left her home on July 8 with intentions of walking to a truck stop, which was four miles away. She caught a ride along the way. Her credit card was used three days later in Brazil, Indiana.
Now, police say her family has received a letter postmarked in Virginia in which she said she decided to start her life over, somewhere else. The family believes the letter is really from Vaughn.



Filed in: News Topics: Becky Vaughn, missing woman, st louis 











 






Parisi Artisan Coffee
Specialty Coffees- Order Online and Join the Coffee Club!







 

 


Popular



Royals sweep Angels in ALDS, advance to AL Championship Series to play Baltimore



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Blood moon returns, and this time it’s bigger



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Gone Girl rakes in $38 million this weekend



Theater buff loses 121 pounds, nabs the leading role in his life



Fit with FOX 4: Healthy foods















News

Amber Alert canceled for 3-year-old Excelsior Springs girl Ramy Demboski


News

Police find family of little boy wandering outside alone Friday morning


News

UK woman accused of harassing Madeleine McCann family found dead


News

Missing woman found stuck in quicksand in Utah park


News

Mysterious “woman in black” seen walking cross country finally reaches her destination



 


News

Woman’s home damaged after someone throws Molotov cocktails


News

Craigslist Killings: Male victim was decapitated, head still missing


News

Family members question homicide of 23-year-old shot in KCMO


News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham


News

Two young boys slip away for a walk, found wandering alone



 


News

Police looking for stranger who was at the house when Ramy Demboski was abducted


News

Woman found shot to death in Kansas City home


News

Daughter perplexed how, why mother was in Grandview home that caught fire






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















