Police officer's conviction tossed out in UMD beating case caught on video | WJLA.com 
Police officer's conviction tossed out in UMD beating case caught on video | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Police officer's conviction tossed out in UMD beating case caught on video

By Brad Bell, ABC 7 News

			September 23, 2014 - 06:04 pm 
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



COLLEGE PARK, Md. (WJLA) -- The conviction of a Prince George's County police officer in the beating of a University of Maryland student that was captured on video has been overturned by a judge, ABC7 News has learned.
Continue reading


More on this story


Cop was convicted in 2012



 
James Harrison was found guilty of second-degree assault in the 2010 beating and was given a one-year suspended sentence in Dec. 2012. He served 30 days of home confinement.
Judge Beverly Woodard did not explain the reason for her decision in tossing out the conviction; beating victim Jack McKenna called the judge's decision "frightening."
"It sends a message that they (the police) can do whatever they want," McKenna, now a second-year law student, said Tuesday. "If they can get away with beating me up on national TV for doing nothing, it really makes me scared for what's going to happen to those in a dark alley when the cameras aren't shining."
Jon Erzen, a spokesman for the Office of the State's Attorney, said prosecutors, too, were surprised that the judge set aside the jury's verdict in the case.
"They (jurors) said Mr. Harrison's actions were not acceptable policing and they were criminal," Erzen said Tuesday.
Harrison, along with another officer who was acquitted, were charged with beating up McKenna as students celebrated the men's basketball team's victory over Duke on March 3, 2010.
Harrison retired with a full pension before his trial, but now with his felony criminal record cleared - there is a chance he could go back into police work. Harrison's lawyer did not return calls Tuesday seeking comment.
McKenna collected a $2 million dollar settlement from the police department to drop a civil lawsuit in the case, but his attorney was fuming Tuesday over the criminal conviction being overturned.
"It means that police officers can think they can commit an act, a savage act of brutality, and get away with it," said lawyer Terrell Roberts.


Read More:
Maryland, 
Maryland Crime, 
University Of Maryland, 
Beating, 
Caught On Video, 
James Harrison, 
Jack McKenna








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Roy Lee Tolbert of D.C. pleads guilty to robbing Md. diamond store



Gilbert Payne, former Md. police officer, charged in workers' comp fraud case



Jesse Matthew, suspect in missing U.Va. student case, charged with abduction of Hannah Graham












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper
















Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Philadelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny









As search continues, father believes Hoggle kids are still alive









Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

