State Police still searching for driver who fled after Sunday afternoon chase on Shore Drive | WTKR.com  
State Police still searching for driver who fled after Sunday afternoon chase on Shore Drive | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

72°







72°


Low 49°
High 74°





Tue


					59°  80°
					


Wed


					63°  79°
					


Thu


					62°  75°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







State Police still searching for driver who fled after Sunday afternoon chase on Shore Drive

Posted 8:12 pm, October 5, 2014, by Tracey Smith and Brendan Ponton, Updated at 12:10pm, October 6, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 





Virginia Beach, Va. – State Police are searching for a driver that hit a marked State Police car, then crashed into two others after being pulled over for a traffic citation on Sunday, October 5th.
Around 4:40 p.m., a Virginia State Trooper attempted to stop a silver Honda for false/altered license plates. During the attempt, the Honda struck the Trooper’s vehicle and fled the scene.
The trooper followed the vehicle through Pacific Avenue onto Shore Drive where he lost sight of the car near the Lesner Bridge.
The trooper continued to search for the vehicle in the area and eventually located it at the intersection of Rockbridge Road and Shore Drive. The driver had run the Honda off the road, hit two unoccupied vehicles, struck a fence and a jet ski trailer. The driver then fled the scene on foot.
State Police with the assistance of Virginia Beach Police, searched for the suspect to no avail.
At this time, the incident is still under active investigation. The suspect that fled the scene was a white male, in his mid 20’s.
Anyone with information should call the Crime Line at 1-888-LOCK-U-UP.


Mug shots from Hampton Roads arrests


Suffolk’s Most Wanted: August 2014


Taking Action Against Crime


Photos: U.S. Marshals on the hunt for fugitives who may be hiding in Hampton Roads



Filed in: News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






The NewsChannel 3 App Center
Get the latest news and Live VIPIR Radar on your phone!







 

 


Popular



Couple together 34 years will receive first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach after SCOTUS rejects appeals



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Multi-million dollar lawsuit accuses Virginia Wesleyan lacrosse player of rape



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Surf for the Cure in Virginia Beach



Time-lapse video: Crew of the USS Bataan washes down the flight deck















News

Chesapeake Police identify two arrested after vehicle pursuit


News

State Trooper struck by car in Virginia Beach


News

State Trooper hospitalized after police pursuit in Newport News


News

State Trooper, another driver injured in six-car pileup on I-264


News

UPDATE: Arrest made in Hit and Run Crash in Newport News



 


News

Firefighter, officer and two others hurt in multi-vehicle crash in Hampton


News

UPDATE: Man killed in early morning accident on Shore Drive identified


News

UPDATE: Bicyclist hit by SUV in Virginia Beach; Driver not charged


News

State police looking for witnesses to fatal crash in Southampton


News

21-year-old Beach man killed by suspected drunk driver on I-64 EB



 


News

Two injured after car crashes into Beach McDonald’s


News

Teen struck by car in Chesapeake


News

UPDATE: Police identify man hit by car in Plaza Middle School parking lot






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,333 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















