UPDATED: Family Releases Statement as Police Expand Search for Hannah Graham 
UPDATED: Family Releases Statement as Police Expand Search for Hannah Graham

























October 6, 2014



Community Counts
HealthLink
Apps







Search





 




















 



Home 
News  

News

News Headlines
Need to Know
Breaking News Alerts
News Video
Live Stream
Education
Meet the News Team
News Tip
Polls
Politics
State/Regional
Affordable Care Act


Weather  

Weather

Closings & Delays
Interactive Radar
Skyline Network
Severe Weather Alerts
Weather Authority Facebook
CBS19Weather Twitter
Meet the Weather Team
3-Degree Guarantee


Sports  

Sports

Sports Headlines
Friday Night EndZone
UVa Athletics
ACC
High School SportsZone
Meet the Sports Team
Student Athlete of the Week
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em


Features  

Features

Barefoot Excursions
Blue Ridge Outdoors
Dental Minute
Edible Blue Ridge
Inside Charlottesville
Jay James on Faith
Pet Project
Political Tuesday
Real Estate III TV
Stephanie's Heroes
Street Safe Teens
UVa Today
What's Going Around
Wine Wednesdays


HealthLINK 
Skyline Network  

Skyline Network

All Cameras
CHO Airport
Fork Union
Martha Jefferson
Old Trail Village
Westminster


Pump Patrol 
Life  

Life

Entertainment
Lottery
MomsEveryday
MyCapture
Pouring in Virginia
TXTL8R


Community  

Community

Community Calendar
VNB Community Counts
Martha Jefferson HealthWise
TXT L8R


Contests  

Contests

Auto Racing Challenge
Dralion Text 2 Win Contest
Fan of the Day
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em
TXT L8R Sweepstakes
Wildlife Photo Contest
3 Degree Guarantee


Station  

Station

Contact Us
Email Directory
Meet the Team
Creative Services
Advertise with Us
Closed Captioning
Program Guide
CBS Shows
Public File
Video Request Form
Waiver Information
Your Feedback


Connect  

Connect

Android App
iPhone / iPad Apps
E-News
Newsplex Facebook
Newsplex Twitter
Newsplex Text Alerts
Newsplex YouTube
RSS Feeds


Jobs  

Jobs

Newsplex Jobs
VA Job Connections
Job of the Day







 

















UPDATED: Family Releases Statement as Police Expand Search for Hannah Graham



																						By: Loren Thomas  - Email 

Updated: Tue 6:21 PM, Sep 16, 2014





																												By: Loren Thomas  - Email 












×
Loren Thomas








Reporter
Biography:
Connect With Me:
loren.thomas@newsplex.com 









Close






Home
 / Headlines List
 / Article 































More Video...













																						Family Releases Statement as Police Expand Search for Hannah G...
														










																						Police Continue to Search for Missing UVa. Student (12p)
														














Hannah Elizabeth Graham









More Stories
Police Widen Search in Disappearance of UVa. Student
UPDATED: Charlottesville Police Release New Photos of Hannah Graham















Sept. 16, 2014
On Tuesday, Charlottesville Police expanded the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham after they received new information and dozens of tips.
Police say that they have received over 60 tips from people calling in about 18-year-old Hannah's disappearance.
Graham, a 2nd-year UVa student, is described as a white female, approximately 5 feet 11 inches tall with light brown hair and freckles.
Police say that a surveillance tape from McGrady's Irish pub shows Graham walking east along Grady Avenue at 12:46 am on early Saturday morning. 
"There's surveillance video from McGrady's Pub up on Grady Avenue, near Preston Avenue, showing our missing person there for several minutes,” said Captain Gary Pleasants with Charlottesville Police. “It appears that she was talking to someone then walking away."
Police say they have no plans to release the surveillance tape.
Friends say Graham was heading to a party and phone records show that she last sent a text to friends around 1:20 am on Saturday.
"She said that she was lost,” said Pleasants. “There were a couple of conflicting things in the text message about where she had been but now this makes since."
She was also seen earlier in the evening on Friday night around the Camden Plaza apartments off of 14th Street.
The Albemarle County Sheriff’s Office has joined in on the search, walking along Preston Ave. near McGrady's.
"Time is if the essence, and where you are looking for somebody it's gotta be quick and you gotta follow up on leads if you have them,” Albemarle Co. Chief Deputy Bobby Shiflett said. “Daytime you can definitely see better as far as a search perspective that you want. You want to make sure that you can see."
There have been 30 to 40 people out helping with the search, including crews from the Blue Ridge Mountain Search Group and the Virginia Department of Emergency Management Services.
The FBI is assisting with the investigation as well.
Hannah Graham’s family issued the following statement Tuesday regarding the disappearance of their daughter;
“Since learning of Hannah’s disappearance, we have been heartbroken and at the same time heartened by the outpouring of support and help we have received. We remain hopeful that Hannah will be found soon. We urge anyone with any information, however insignificant it may seem, to call a newly dedicated tip line at 434-295-3851 at the Charlottesville Police Department.
“Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends. She is highly responsible and organized. She embraces life with energy and enthusiasm and has enriched the lives of many. Her empathy is evident in her daily interactions with us and her friends. She loves the University of Virginia, and all summer she was looking forward to the start of the new school year. U.Va. is her intellectual home, a place that stimulates her thinking on a broad variety of topics. Socially, she has found kinship and passion with her fellow members of the Ski Team.
“We express our sincere gratitude to law enforcement and everyone who is involved in the search for Hannah. We also thank the University for the full attention they are devoting to the situation. The kindness and support of so many – her friends at U.Va., particularly her friends on the Ski Team, her friends from high school, our neighbors, and the larger community – mean so much to us at this difficult time.
“Please join us in our fervent wish for Hannah’s safe return home. Once again, if you have any information at all, however insignificant it may seem, please call 434-295-3851.
"John, Susan, and James Graham"
The family asks that the public and news media respect its privacy at this time.
If you have any information on where Hannah Elizabeth Graham might be you are asked to call CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000, or the tip line at 434-295-3851.











3 Win Medicine Nobel for Discovering Brain's GPS 












The comments sections of Newsplex.com are designed for thoughtful, intelligent conversation and debate. We want to hear from our viewers, but we ask that you follow our rules for commenting. E-mail is required to comment on a story, but it will not be displayed with your comment. For complete rules, CLICK HERE. The Newsplex reserves the right to not post or to remove any comment.



Please enable JavaScript to view the powered by Disqus.
powered by Disqus



















































		Most Read Stories			



Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham
Historic Estate In Virginia To Be Sold At Auction
Searchers Increase Personnel to Search for Missing Teen
Local Entrepreneur Turns Passion into Profit
Teachers Feeling Stress
Police Using New Tactic to Issue Texting While Driving Tickets
Dozens of Girls Donate Their Ponytails wit Wigs for Warriors
Supreme Court Rejects Appeals in Gay Marriage Cases













Tweets from @CBS19/newsplex-accounts




Today's Events
Today's community events.
Monday October 6



Fall Revival
Sleepout for the Homeless
Colonnade Club Cornerstone Celebration
UVA Hosted: Baby Basics Moms Club

Click Here to Submit and View Events









































The Charlottesville Newsplex
999 2nd Street S.E.
Charlottesville, VA 22902
434.242.1919 – Main
434.220.7522 - Newsroom

 - Copyright © 2002-2014 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability   275298471 - newsplex.com/a?a=275298471 					





Website Policy
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy/YOUR CALIFORNIA PRIVACY RIGHTS
Advertising
EEO Statement
Public Inspection File






×
Online Public Information File


Click Here to access the online Public Inspection File
Viewers with disabilities can get assistance accessing this station's FCC Public Inspection File by contacting the station with the information listed below. Questions or concerns relating to the accessibility of the FCC's online public file system should be directed to the FCC at 888-225-5322, 888-835-5322 (TTY), or fccinfo@fcc.gov.

Public File Liaison:
Emily Hall - 434-242-1919 Ext. 137

Station Contact Info:
The Charlottesville Newsplex999 2nd Street S.E.Charlottesville, VA 22902434.242.1919 – Main434.220.7522 - Newsroom


Close























