Police, family searching for missing woman from Murray | fox13now.com  

Police, family searching for missing woman from Murray | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

65°







65°


Low 61°
High 74°





Tue


					55°  76°
					


Wed


					53°  75°
					


Thu


					51°  73°
					


See complete forecast




 







 WATCH LIVE: Utah Pride Center speaking on same-sex marriage at noon						








 







Police, family searching for missing woman from Murray

Posted 4:49 pm, October 5, 2014, by Carly Figueroa, Updated at 09:25pm, October 5, 2014 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





MURRAY, Utah — Murray police are investigating a woman’s mysterious disappearance, and members of her family are asking the public for help locating the woman.
Kayelyn Louder, 30, disappeared from her Murray condo September 27 around 7 p.m. She left in the rain with no shoes, no money and without a cell phone.
Family members said it’s clear she had no intent to be gone for long.
“She was wearing a white tank top and shorts, and she had her car keys and no shoes on, and her car is still at her place,” said Louder’s sister, Madi Rodriguez.
Madi Rodriguez hasn’t slept in a week. When she isn’t hanging up missing person posters or scouring her sister’s neighborhood, her mind is still racing.
“The only thing we can think is she ran out to maybe meet somebody or ran to another person’s condo, but when she would leave she would be gone for maybe an hour a or so and she would be very anxious to get back to her dog,” she said.
Louder lived in a condo with her dog, her cat, and a roommate. Rodriguez said Louder’s  roommate called last week because she hadn’t heard or seen from Louder and was worried. Neighbors in her building are spooked because they know Louder would never intentionally leave her dog.
“It struck me as odd because she left her dog, Phyllis, which she loved–and she would never leave that little dog anywhere, and she left barefoot and she is very phobic of bugs,” Neighbor Arlow Evans said.
According to police, surveillance footage from outside of Louder’s condo shows her outside in the rain around 7 p.m. on September 27. That’s the last time anyone saw her, and police said there are no leads or suspects.
“You come out in the pouring rain with no shoes on, it just doesn’t make sense,” Neighbor Sean Sanders said. “Something was going on.”
In the meantime, her sister said she won’t stop looking.
“Even if it’s the worst case scenario, that something has happened, like we need to find her body or something,” Rodriguez said.
Murray police are asking anyone with any information to contact them at 801- 264-2673. Louder’s friends and family held a candlelight vigil Sunday night beginning at 6:30 p.m. at Murray City Park, and the event was open to the public. 

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (6 images)





Inline



 





Filed in: News Topics: kaelyn louder, missing person, missing woman 








			6 comments		




 

keri

I.  Recanise the balcony.i was assulted there.




							October 5, 2014 at 6:46 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Riley Welsh

Yes that’s the condos. What happened?




							October 5, 2014 at 9:48 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Eber

Keri, do you have an email where you can be contacted at? please?! Yes, that is where she lives! Any information you gives us would be greatly appreciated!!!!!! you can email me at emonteiro25@gmail.com




							October 5, 2014 at 9:57 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Amy F

Keri, I’m her cousin and would really like to talk with you if possible. blackgiraffe@gmail.com




							October 6, 2014 at 10:37 am						

Reply
Report comment









 

Girl

I lived there in 5511 a few years ago. Those condos are very easy to have someone watch you without you knowing.  Right before I moved they connected all the garages by adding doors inside. I’m am so sorry. I hope she is found.




							October 6, 2014 at 12:06 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Amy F

That creeps me out!




							October 6, 2014 at 10:50 am						

Reply
Report comment








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Police in Salt Lake City hiring ‘beer decoys’, purveyors of booze react



Police, family searching for missing woman from Murray



Father in custody after K9 helps locate missing, endangered child in Tooele



After years of struggling with infertility, Utah couple has baby shower for quadruplets







 


Latest News



Man in custody after kidnapping in SLC, police say



Hilarious Video: Eyes drawn on bike helmet won’t deter magpies



Police: Woman wearing green face paint robbed motel



Water main break floods homes, closes streets in West Jordan















News

Realtor vanishes on the job; arrest warrant issued for suspect


News

Police: Couple reporting child locked in hot car said mother overheard, ran over them


News

Widower’s beloved photos of wife returned more than a year after camera theft


News

Police: Woman left child in 140-degree car to get nails done


News

Family of woman found murdered in SLC hotel room demand answers



 


News

Parents speak out about death of daughter killed in driveway accident


News

Missing woman found, is OK police say


News

Ogden woman killed in apparent murder-suicide impacted many lives


News

Quarantined family in Ebola patient’s apartment should be moved, judge says


News

5-year-old’s letter to police shows never too young to make difference



 


News

19 years after daughter’s murder, mother still hopes for answers


News

Joan Rivers dead at 81


News

Authorities warning parents after woman in truck follows students to school






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2014, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,300 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















