Caught on video: Baltimore Police officer repeatedly punches suspect | WJLA.com 
Caught on video: Baltimore Police officer repeatedly punches suspect | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Caught on video: Baltimore Police officer repeatedly punches suspect

By Jay Korff

			September 15, 2014 - 11:52 pm 
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



BALTIMORE (WJLA) – A video showing an altercation between a Baltimore Police officer and a man who ultimately ended up in handcuffs is under investigation. The man involved is alleging police brutality and filing a $5 million lawsuit against the officer, who claims he feared for his safety. 
Continue reading





A still from the June 15 surveillance video. (WJLA photo)



The June 15 confrontation, captured by a City of Baltimore surveillance camera, has no sound, but the incident explodes off the screen. The footage shows Officer Vincent Cosom hitting 32-year-old Kollin Truss repeatedly.
The confrontation actually started minutes before it was caught on tape. According to Officer Cosom’s incident report, Truss was loitering outside a Charm City liquor store at 1:40 a.m. and was very intoxicated. Truss yelled an obscenity at Officer Cosom, according to the report.
Moments later, Truss and his then-girlfriend Stephanie Coleman walked away and crossed the street. Officers pursued.  Officer Cosom, a six-year-veteran of the police force, claims Truss at one point pushed Coleman three times. 
Officer Cosom stated in his report, 

"At this time I went to place the male under arrest. He got into a fighting stance and clenched his fist. Me and the male got into a physical altercation due to me being in fear of my safety and I received a punch to the body."
The video shows Truss looking down and walking away, when Officer Cosom moves in, punching Truss, who falls back onto a bus stop. Officer Cosom then lands more punches, while another officer holds back Truss’ right arm. Eventually, Coleman steps in to stop the punching—that’s when police arrest and charge Truss with assault and resisting arrest.
On Monday night, Baltimore Police issued a statement that reads, in part, “The Internal Affairs Division is conducting a thorough investigation and is asking that anyone with any information or evidence pertaining to this incident to come forward …”
After authorities viewed the video, the charges against Truss were dropped. Officer Cosom remains on duty.


Read More:
NewsChannel 8, 
Crime, 
Maryland, 
Maryland Crime, 
Baltimore, 
Baltimore Police, 
Police Brutality, 
Caught On Tape, 
Caught On Camera, 
Caught On Video, 
Vincent Cosom, 
Kollin Truss








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Jury convicts D.C. man in Maryland armored truck robbery



Ex-Georgetown student pleads guilty to having ricin in his dorm room



Loudoun County drops gun charge against Charles Severance












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit
















2 missing Clarksburg, Md. kids believed dead; police build homicide case against mom









Ray Rice punching wife video sent to NFL months ago, according to police









D.C. Police Chief Cathy Lanier 'shocked' by video of officer's behavior in confronting man filming a









Acting on tip, D.C. police renew search for 8-year-old Relisha Rudd in Kenilworth Park









New video shows beheading of British aid worker David Haines by Islamic State group





















News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

