Police describe 'person of interest' in case of missing UVA student Hannah Graham after man seen following teen - NY Daily News 

Police describe 'person of interest' in case of missing UVA student Hannah Graham after man seen following teen - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Police describe 'person of interest' in case of missing UVA student Hannah Graham after man seen following teen A man seen trailing the teen on surveillance cameras told police he followed the University of Virginia sophomore until she ran into a heavyset black male in his late 20s or early 30s who put his arm around her. That man, who had a close-shaved head and goatee, has since been described as a 'person of interest.'  BY   Nina Golgowski    ,    Meg Wagner   NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Thursday, September 18, 2014, 9:28 AM Updated: Thursday, September 18, 2014, 6:01 PM  A A A        Share this URL                  nbc washington New video shows a man following missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham around 1 a.m. Friday, about 20 minutes before she sent her last text message.    nbc washington The man contacted police and said he tracked the teen because she seemed upset and he feared for her safety.    Previous Next      Enlarge   
	Police have released a description for a "person of interest" sought in the disappearance of missing University of Virginia sophomore Hannah Elizabeth Graham.

	A heavyset black male with a "beer belly," in his late 20s or early 30s, was last seen with the 18-year-old before she vanished in the early hours of Sept. 13, a witness told Charlottesville police.

	The man, wearing black jeans and a white T-shirt, put his arm around the student while walking in the Downtown Mall around 1 a.m.

	He's described as 5-foot-10 or 5-foot-11, 250-285 pounds with a close-shaved head and goatee.

	The description comes from a man who was seen trailing the teen on the night she vanished — but only because he feared for her safety, he told police.      

	New surveillance video shows Graham walking while a man following closely behind her. The 18-year-old vanished after a Friday night of partying.

	Charlottesville officers said the man in the video contacted them Wednesday, explaining he followed the apparently drunk 18-year-old because he was worried about her, the Cavalier Daily reported.

	She seemed distressed and he feared for her safety, he said.

	The footage showed Graham and the man walk by a downtown pizza place around 1 a.m. Saturday.       Facebook 
	Graham was reported missing Sunday. Enlarge      AP 
	The 18-year-old is a UVA sophomore. Enlarge  
	Graham, 18, was reported missing Sunday after her friends realized the last time they heard from her was 1:20 a.m. Saturday.
  

	He tracked her until she ran into another man, the newly described person of interest, who put his arm around her, he told police.

	The man following Graham said he then left the two because they were talking and appeared to know each other.

	The second man is not shown in any videos, police said, and officers have not been able to identify him.

	Police are asking anyone who has any information on him or saw him this night to call the tip line. The number is: (434) 295-3851.       Charlottesville Police Department A hallway camera showed Graham in her apartment complex around 9:30 p.m. Friday.    WTVR More surveillance video showed the 18-year-old walking past a pub and a gas station later that night.    WTVR The teen's friends last heard from her around 1:20 a.m. Saturday.    Previous Next       Enlarge  

	Graham's friends first reported her missing Sunday after they realized the last time they heard from her was through a 1:20 a.m. Saturday text message.

	Earlier Wednesday, police released photos of Graham in her off-campus apartment building just hours before she vanished. The images showed Graham in the hall around 9:30 p.m. in a sparkly crop top.

	Police said she hopped between several locations Friday night, including a downtown restaurant for dinner and another apartment complex for a party.

	Around 12:15 a.m., she got lost, police said.      Ryan M. Kelly/AP The search for the missing student entered its fifth day Thursday.    Ryan M. Kelly/AP 'It is totally out of character for us not to have heard from her. We fear foul play,' her parents said.    Previous Next      Enlarge  

	Video from an Irish pub and a gas station showed the sophomore circling the area between 12:45 a.m. and 12:55 a.m. — just before the pizza place video at 1:06 a.m.

	Her last text message did not seem to indicate she was upset or in danger, Charlottesville Police Capt. Gary Pleasants said Wednesday.

	Graham's parents, John and Susan, released a statement Wednesday: "It is totally out of character for us not to have heard from her. We fear foul play."

	Graham, originally from England, is 5-foot-11, and was last seen wearing black pants and a gold crop top, NBC Washington reported.

With News Wire Services

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH VIDEO HERE.    Related Stories  Details, videos emerge in missing UVA student case       Police release photos of missing UVA student       Police searching for missing University of Virginia student          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Queen Elizabeth dubs Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog       7   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      8   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     9   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     10   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      