The Cavalier Daily :: Police speak with person of interest in Graham investigation, lack cause to detain  The Cavalier Daily :: Police speak with person of interest in Graham investigation, lack cause to detain 






About
Contact
Join
Donate




U.Va. Faculty Salaries Index
Graduation Edition
Find a Paper
Classifieds










					Oct 06, 2014   Clear 70° F  Charlottesville, VA
				






























News
Sports
Opinion
A&E
Life
H&S
Focus
Comics
Blogs
Multimedia




Print Edition
Email Edition
Advertise























Police speak with person of interest in Graham investigation, lack cause to detain
Eyewitnesses place Graham, person of interest at Tempo restaurant early Saturday morning

				
					
						by Andrew Elliott
						
							and Julia Horowitz
						
							and Kelly Kaler
						
							and Marshall Bronfin
						
				
					| Sep 19 2014 | 09/19/14 6:02pm

				
				



Share on Twitter










Marshall Bronfin |
			
			
				The Cavalier Daily
			
		


Police Chief Timothy Longo implored Charlottesville residents and business owners to come forward with any information about a person of interest, described as a 6'2 black male, who is age 32, has dreadlocks and weighs an estimated 270 pounds.







Marshall Bronfin |
			
			
				The Cavalier Daily
			
		


Police said Graham entered Tempo restaurant sometime after her last sighting at 1:08 a.m. with the same black male. The man purchased alcohol, and the pair is said to have left 15 minutes later.



Charlottesville Police offered what they called “the biggest development yet” in the case of missing second-year College student Hannah Graham. Police have now received more than 400 tips relating to the disappearance.Police have identified a man they say was seen with Graham after her last appearance on the Tuel Jeweler's surveillance video at 1:08 a.m. Saturday morning. Initially, police said Graham was walking alone in the video. Upon further review, investigators have identified a black male walking alongside her.Eyewitnesses told police they saw the man, dressed in all white, come in contact with Graham as she walked eastbound and later put his hands around her waist.Eyewitness accounts also indicate Graham entered and left Tempo Restaurant & Bar, located on 5th Street off the Downtown Mall, with the 32-year-old man — who is described as being 6-foot-2, having dreadlocks, and weighing 270 pounds.Police Chief Timothy Longo said the man purchased alcohol at Tempo and the pair left within 15 minutes.Police believe Graham and the person of interest entered a burnt orange 1998 Chrysler Coupe parked on 4th Street after leaving the bar. "I cannot answer if Hannah went willingly into the car," Longo said.Police declined to release the man's name or speak to his criminal record at this time. Additionally, they declined to elaborate on what evidence was collected at his apartment and in his car."There will come an appropriate time when I will release that information," Longo said. "But right now the message is: today was productive. It advanced the investigation."Investigators and the Commonwealth Attorney did not believe there was enough evidence to detain or arrest the man, Longo said, but police did speak to him this morning when they entered the home."We know who he is and we are aware of where he is," said Detective Sergeant Jim Mooney, who is leading the investigation.Though police have not identified the man as a suspect, Longo said he is still relevant to the investigation."I spoke with him and I want to speak with him again," Mooney said.Longo has asked anyone who may have seen Graham and the man that night to come forward and speak with police."She walked from one end of the Mall to the other and she walked past people," Longo said. "People saw her in that restaurant. … People saw Hannah and people saw him — and people saw them together."Longo also urged people who live in the area to inspect their properties and to review and disclose any personal surveillance footage they may have from the night of Graham's disappearance.The community search, organized by the Virginia Department of Emergency Management, will still take place Saturday morning, Longo said. He could not offer specifics as to where the searches would take place."You can imagine we are going to re-evaluate, re-canvass, re-search," Longo said.VDEM Public Affairs Director Dawn Eischen said 1,550 people registered online to help in the search. Staggered arrivals for volunteers will begin at 8 a.m. Saturday at John Paul Jones Arena. Searchers will be bussed to various eastbound locations and then bussed back to JPJ, Eischen said."The search is still on for tomorrow and as far as I know maybe into Sunday," Eischen said.


					Published September 19, 2014

					
						
						

						in 

						
							
								News















POPULAR
RECENT
COMMENTS




The Cavalier Daily :: The Competition Effect5 comments
SafeRide scrutinized after Graham disappearance5 comments
College Council approves controversial sidewalk project for front of Phi Kappa Psi Fraternity5 comments
The Cavalier Daily :: WILLIAMS: Free from blame3 comments
The Cavalier Daily :: Finding the good3 comments




Love Connection: Doug and Ashley
Shine on
No. 4 Women’s soccer rebounds following first loss
Men’s soccer cruises past Pittsburgh, 3-0
Volleyball falls to Duke, bounces back against Louisville




fuckthis said: Oh the hypocrisy! People who live on the lawn are the ones who normally have multiple positions in these organizations, so is anyone really surprised ...on The Cavalier Daily :: The Competition Effect
cd_om said: Thank you for your input. We recognize that there are several competitive organizations on Grounds —many more than are mentioned here. We could not, ...on The Cavalier Daily :: The Competition Effect
Fan said: This is genius, love the new column.on The Cavalier Daily :: Desiring a danish
2013er said: It's all easy when we talk about it, but the practice is completely different. Everyone wants to get into the same groups because not only are they the ...on The Cavalier Daily :: The Competition Effect
Mr. O said: Well said. Awareness is a great first step to any useful feedback aimed at helping change norms. But also as helpful is the impact of those actions, and ...on The Cavalier Daily :: Careless implications














UPCOMING EVENTS

MON6
TUE7
WED8
THU9



No events for this date


No events for this date




				
					11:00am
				
				 | MILLER CENTER AMERICAN FORUM: 25 Years After the Fall of the Berlin Wall: Lessons and Legacy 



No events for this date

FULL CALENDAR 

















The Cavalier Daily welcomes thoughtful, respectful and relevant comments
				that contribute to a public dialogue. In order to maintain a high level of
				discourse, all comments must be approved by our moderator. For more
				information, view our full comment policy.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Comments powered by Disqus










News
Grounds
Local
State


Life
Columns
Love Connection
Love Connection Survey




Opinion
Columns
Editorial Cartoons
Lead Editorials
Letters to the Editor


Blogs


A&E
Art
Movies
Music
Arts & Entertainment Blog




Sports
Baseball
Football
Men's Basketball
Men's Lacrosse
Men's Soccer
Women's Basketball
Women's Lacrosse
Women's Soccer
Wrestling




Focus


H&S


Multimedia
Video
Photos
Audio




About & History
Contact
Corrections
Join
Comment Policy
Permissions




				The Cavalier Daily is the independent student newspaper of the University of Virginia, published since 1890.
			

				Please see our about page for more information.
			



Download PDF




All Content © Copyright 2014, The Cavalier Daily




	Powered by  Solutions by The State News
















