The Cavalier Daily :: SafeRide, other safety measures see new scrutiny after Graham disappearance  The Cavalier Daily :: SafeRide, other safety measures see new scrutiny after Graham disappearance 






About
Contact
Join
Donate




U.Va. Faculty Salaries Index
Graduation Edition
Find a Paper
Classifieds










					Oct 06, 2014   Clear 70° F  Charlottesville, VA
				






























News
Sports
Opinion
A&E
Life
H&S
Focus
Comics
Blogs
Multimedia




Print Edition
Email Edition
Advertise























SafeRide, other safety measures see new scrutiny after Graham disappearance
Sullivan announces additional van, students call for extended hours

				
					
						by Joseph Liss
						
				
					| Sep 29 2014 | 09/29/14 12:37am

				
				



Share on Twitter






Campus safety has received heightened attention in recent weeks following the disappearance of second-year College student Hannah Graham on Sept. 13.As part of the University's response to these on-going concerns, it added a fourth van to its SafeRide operations — a free service launched in the 1980s through cooperation between Student Council and the University Police which offers students rides to their homes near Grounds when they might otherwise feel unsafe to walk.University President Teresa Sullivan said the University would increase the number of SafeRide vans and SafeRide’s hours in an email message sent to the University community last Tuesday — though the administration later clarified the hours were not changing and a full update was sent to students on Friday.“The email from the President referenced extended hours generally, but didn't state what those hours were,” Dean of Students Allen Groves said in an email. “Any students who checked the webpage for hours would have seen the correct ones.”During the regular academic year, SafeRide operates between midnight and 7 a.m. Sunday through Wednesday, and from 2:30 a.m. and 7 a.m. Thursday through Saturday.Students have expressed confusion with SafeRide’s hours and concern about the service's limited hours on the weekends, when there is greater need. First-year College student Tori Auerhan said she thought weekend hours should closer reflect weekday hours.“I think it’s strange how they go from 12 a.m. to 7 a.m. on weekdays but only from 2:30 a.m. to 7 a.m. on weekends,” Auerhan said. “I think they should be extended from 12 a.m. to 7 a.m. all days.”Auerhan said she’d experienced “several instances” where she felt calling SafeRide would be her best option on a Thursday or Friday, only to find the service had not yet started.Third-year College student Rachel Murphy, a Student Council Safety and Wellness Committee co-chair and student member of University’s Safety and General Security Committee, said she asked for clarification about the extended hours last Wednesday, but didn't hear back that no such extension was taking place until Friday.Murphy said she and her committee have been advocating for the administration to expand SafeRide’s hours."We all know that the need for SafeRide starts way before 2:30 in the morning," Murphy said. "A large number of the users of SafeRide are people who have early morning athletic practices and early morning jobs."Murphy said the Safety and Wellness Committee has consistently asked for faster response times."If you're in an unsafe situation, you do not have the luxury of waiting 20, 25 or 40 minutes," Murphy said.In her email to the University community Friday, Sullivan also mentioned the University Transit System's Outer University Loop and Northline routes operate on extended service hours from Thursday through Saturday — from 12:30 a.m. until 2:30 a.m. She also outlined the "Charge-a-Ride" program the University has with Yellow Cab, wherein students can show a valid student ID and be charged to their student accounts for any ride through the taxi service.Murphy said her committee also hoped the University would adopt the LiveSafe app instead of current app TipSoft, an app which allows users to submit tips to police anonymously through a phone application. Murphy said TipSoft is less user friendly than LiveSafe, which is used at Virginia Tech, Longwood and Virginia Commonwealth University."It allows users to submit anonymous tips and allows you to look at a map of your community and see where a lot tips have been submitted," Murphy said. "There is also a safe walk application, where you can allow a friend to follow you home virtually … [and a] one-push dial to get University police and you can also text University PD."Murphy said the LiveSafe app allows student to look up robberies nearby or try to find alternative, safer routes home in high-reporting areas.Groves said Sullivan had convened a committee to discuss safety issues, but it had not yet made or suggested any changes.“A safety working group chaired by EVP/COO Pat Hogan and including representation from UPD, my office, the Provost's office, the medical center and students, will be considering ideas around safety, including possible changes to SafeRide,” Groves said in an email.


					Published September 29, 2014

					
						
						

						in 

						
							
								News















POPULAR
RECENT
COMMENTS




The Cavalier Daily :: The Competition Effect5 comments
SafeRide scrutinized after Graham disappearance5 comments
College Council approves controversial sidewalk project for front of Phi Kappa Psi Fraternity5 comments
The Cavalier Daily :: WILLIAMS: Free from blame3 comments
The Cavalier Daily :: Finding the good3 comments




Love Connection: Doug and Ashley
Shine on
No. 4 Women’s soccer rebounds following first loss
Men’s soccer cruises past Pittsburgh, 3-0
Volleyball falls to Duke, bounces back against Louisville




fuckthis said: Oh the hypocrisy! People who live on the lawn are the ones who normally have multiple positions in these organizations, so is anyone really surprised ...on The Cavalier Daily :: The Competition Effect
cd_om said: Thank you for your input. We recognize that there are several competitive organizations on Grounds —many more than are mentioned here. We could not, ...on The Cavalier Daily :: The Competition Effect
Fan said: This is genius, love the new column.on The Cavalier Daily :: Desiring a danish
2013er said: It's all easy when we talk about it, but the practice is completely different. Everyone wants to get into the same groups because not only are they the ...on The Cavalier Daily :: The Competition Effect
Mr. O said: Well said. Awareness is a great first step to any useful feedback aimed at helping change norms. But also as helpful is the impact of those actions, and ...on The Cavalier Daily :: Careless implications














UPCOMING EVENTS

MON6
TUE7
WED8
THU9



No events for this date


No events for this date




				
					11:00am
				
				 | MILLER CENTER AMERICAN FORUM: 25 Years After the Fall of the Berlin Wall: Lessons and Legacy 



No events for this date

FULL CALENDAR 

















The Cavalier Daily welcomes thoughtful, respectful and relevant comments
				that contribute to a public dialogue. In order to maintain a high level of
				discourse, all comments must be approved by our moderator. For more
				information, view our full comment policy.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Comments powered by Disqus










News
Grounds
Local
State


Life
Columns
Love Connection
Love Connection Survey




Opinion
Columns
Editorial Cartoons
Lead Editorials
Letters to the Editor


Blogs


A&E
Art
Movies
Music
Arts & Entertainment Blog




Sports
Baseball
Football
Men's Basketball
Men's Lacrosse
Men's Soccer
Women's Basketball
Women's Lacrosse
Women's Soccer
Wrestling




Focus


H&S


Multimedia
Video
Photos
Audio




About & History
Contact
Corrections
Join
Comment Policy
Permissions




				The Cavalier Daily is the independent student newspaper of the University of Virginia, published since 1890.
			

				Please see our about page for more information.
			



Download PDF




All Content © Copyright 2014, The Cavalier Daily




	Powered by  Solutions by The State News
















