Missing UVA Student Hannah Graham 'Would Not Disappear' Abruptly: Family - NBC News 
Missing UVA Student Hannah Graham 'Would Not Disappear' Abruptly: Family - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
Protesters Sleep in Hong Kong's Nooks and Crannies
Cop Battling Stage 4 Breast Cancer Gets Pink Patrol Car
Pope Francis Opens Extraordinary Synod on the Family
NBC News Freelancer With Ebola Arrives at U.S. Hospital







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search




















Charlottesville Police via AP

                            20 days
                            



News
  
Missing 18-year-old University of Virginia student, Hanna Elizabeth Graham, appears in a surveillance photo Saturday Sept. 13, 2014 in Charlottesville, Va.    
 


Missing UVA Student Hannah Graham 'Would Not Disappear' Abruptly: Family





































The search for Hannah Elizabeth Graham, the 18-year-old University of Virginia student who went missing over the weekend, shifted Tuesday after authorities obtained surveillance footage showing the young woman outside an Irish pub near campus, police said. Police have adjusted the search area to stretch east of McGrady's Pub, where Graham can be seen before walking east in footage recorded at 12:46 a.m. Saturday, just minutes before she told friends via text message she was lost.Meanwhile, Graham's family said Tuesday she is a conscientious young woman who would not just vanish out of the blue. “Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends. She is highly responsible and organized,” Graham’s family said in a statement.“Hannah is not the kind of kid that would just go on a road trip and disappear,” Stephen Rice, the band director at her alma mater, West Potomac High School in Virginia, told NBC Washington. “She was always very diligent with everything she did, and always did everything exactly by the book.”Graham is described as 5-foot-11, with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. She was seen on a dorm surveillance camera before her disappearance wearing a black crop top with mesh cutouts and black pants. Graham’s family on Tuesday thanked law enforcement, the University and the missing student’s friends for their help during “this difficult time.”SOCIAL— Erik Ortiz and Daniel Arkin
First published September 16 2014, 6:13 AM



 

 

 

 











About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

