Police search apartment connected to missing UVa student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Police search apartment connected to missing UVa student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Police search Charlottesville apartment for clues into disappearance of UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 10:35 am, September 19, 2014, by Scott Wise, Shelby Brown and Alix Bryan, Updated at 02:50pm, September 19, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Police executed a search warrant on a car and apartment that might be connected to the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo said officers seized a vehicle from outside the Hessian Hills apartment complex in Albemarle County Friday morning.
Officers are about to enter the apartment and spend several hours there, Longo said. No arrests have been made. He said that evidence in the car led police to execute a search warrant for the apartment.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (9 images)











 


Police said their investigation led them to the car, which then led them to the Hessian Hills apartment complex.
The apartments sit “just minutes away” from the Downtown Mall where Graham was last seen on security camera video early Saturday morning. Google maps indicated the apartment complex and Downtown Mall are approximately three miles apart.


Police tape now up. Neighbors tell @seancudahy they've seen police in the neighborhood since 7:30am pic.twitter.com/rpTUsuM3Rr
— NBC29 (@NBC29) September 19, 2014

There were persons present at the apartment when police arrived. When asked if those people are being questioned, Chief Longo only said “those people are not here,” and that he didn’t know where they were.
Police are calling this their most productive lead so far.
“The search warrant is to locate what we believe could be potential evidence that may be related to this investigation,” Longo said. “We are in the process of beginning that search, that search could take several hours.”
“I would hope that it is,” Longo said when asked if he would call it a major break.
The execution of search warrants comes one day after Charlottesville Police announced investigators wanted to speak with a person of interest in this case.
Person of interest established, reward offered
Police said Thursday that they wanted to question a man spotted by eyewitnesses talking to Graham on the Downtown Mall around 1:15 a.m. on Sept. 13, the night 18-the year-old student vanished.
Later Thursday evening, hundreds of Graham’s classmates gathered at McIntire Amphitheater on the University of Virginia grounds for a “Bring Hannah Home” candlelight vigil.


#UVA is here in force showing support for #hannahgraham. @CBS6 #BringHannahHome pic.twitter.com/818fglpRUl
— Melissa J. Hipolit (@MelissaCBS6) September 19, 2014

On Thursday, police described the man as a black male in his late 20s to early 30s, about 5’10” to 5’11”  tall and weighing between 250-285 pounds.
The man was wearing black jeans and a white t-shirt and was described as having a closely shaved head as well as a goatee and a slight “beer belly.”
A $50,000 reward is now being offered in hopes of soliciting tips that could lead police to Graham. The City of Charlottesville and the University of Virginia are each offering $10,000. In addition, some local residents and businesses have contributed $30,000 to the reward.

If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.
Searches will continue throughout the weekend, with volunteer help requested.
All surveillance videos can be seen here.
All reports filed on this case can be found here.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration



















 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















