Professor Larry Levine: 5 Fast Facts You Need to Know | Heavy.com 

Professor Larry Levine: 5 Fast Facts You Need to Know | Heavy.com














































































































































































 




















































Professor Larry Levine: 5 Fast Facts You Need to Know






Published
 
4:34 pm EDT, October 1, 2015






Updated
 2:10 am EDT, October 2, 2015			




 



							By 






15.1k		




























The shooting may have started in Larry Levine’s speech or writing class at Umpqua Community College. This is a profile photo from a Facebook page that may be Levine’s. (Facebook)


The Umpqua Community College shooting may started in Professor Larry Levine’s class, some witnesses are reporting on Twitter. Levine is an adjunct English professor at Umpqua Community College. Ten people have died in the school shooting. 
 that the shooting started in one building, and then the gunman,
, moved to the school’s science building. People were killed and wounded in at least two classrooms.


Here’s what we know so far.




1. Witnesses Are Saying the Shooting May Have Started in Levine’s Class






There's an indication that the shooting started in Professor Professor Larry Levine's class (English).


 


— Jonathan Langdale (@jlangdale) 




Witnesses are saying the shooting may have started in Levine’s writing or speech class in Snyder Hall.


A professor, Amy Fair, who taught in a class that shares a common wall with where the shooting began 
on her Facebook wall. She said she was glad to be safe and home, but those who were on the campus know less than everyone else about what happened. She also posted a thanks to local authorities who were on the campus within minutes. She said that a veteran in her class helped get students out of Snyder hall, but then he ran back inside and she’s worried about him. All of her students got out of the classroom, she said, but she’s not sure yet if they’re all OK.




2. Levine Is An Assistant Professor of English at Umpqua






Authorities check bags as students and staff are moved off campus at Umpqua Community College after shooting report. 


— Michael Sullivan (@MikeSullPhoto) 




Levine is an assistant professor of English at Umpqua Community College. According to his 
, he graduated from the University of Oregon.


One student, Kortney Moore, said the shooting took place in her Writing 115 class in Snyder Hall, 
. She said she saw her teacher shot in the head. The shooter told everyone in the class to get on the ground and then asked them to stand up and say what religion they were before he started firing.


Anastasia Boylan, a student who was shot, told her family before going into surgery that her professor was shot point blank by the gunman before he shot anyone else in the classroom, 
 It’s not yet known if Levine was the professor that Boylan was talking about.




3. Levine Is an Avid Outdoors Enthusiast


The profile photo on a Facebook page that may belong to Larry Levine from Umpqua Community College shows a sea turtle going out to the ocean. (Facebook)


According to what may be Levine’s Facebook profile, he’s a fan of the outdoors and fishing and has worked as a fly fishing guide in the past. 
s shows a Larry Levine from Umpqua writing about his adventures on the river. He wrote: “I can’t recall a time that we both, in a rush of deep appreciation, didn’t proclaim the North Fork to be the most beautiful river in the world and the watershed paradise.” His writing is absolutely beautiful, as you can see from this passage:




Today, I stood where the wide ledge below my house meets the deep part of the  river. Where the river ran over it, the ledge was the color of wet sand with a patina of moss green highlights. It was ninety degrees; I was summoning the courage to jump in.  As I gazed into the depths, I saw my shadow and rays of light emanating around my silhouette. The light danced to the rhythm of the breeze on the water; it was all in one and magical, and that was what I dove into.”




Chris Harper Mercer has been identified as the gunman in the shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon that left 10 dead.




4. At Least 10 People Were Killed in the Shooting


The shooting took place at Umpqua Community College. (Umpqua website)


Ten people were killed in the Umpqua Community College shooting and at least seven injured. The 26-year-old gunman, Chris Harper Mercer, was killed while gunfire was exchanged with police officers, 
. The gunman’s name has not yet been released and his motives aren’t yet known. This shooting is 
 in U.S. history.


The terrifying mass shooting at Umpqua Community College is one of the worst school and university shootings in U.S. history. 




5. The Shooter May Have Posted Online About the Shooting Before It Happened


The shooter may have posted on the website 4chan about his plans before the shooting happened. 
that the shooter had a conversation online about the shooting the night before it happened and warned people that a shooting was going to occur in the northeast region.


Chris Harper Mercer is the alleged gunman who killed 10 at Umpqua Community College. But did he say he was going to on a shooting spree on 4Chan the night before?


 




Stephanie Dube Dwilson


is a news, entertainment & science/tech writer at Heavy. She's also a featured cat blogger for CatTime, runs a 
, and is a guest writer for a number of publications. In her spare time, Stephanie writes screenplays and novels about sci-fi mysteries. You can follow her on Twitter at 
 or contact her by email 
.




October 2, 2015 2:10 am
 
































Related Items
 






Related posts from this category


















Leave a comment








Leave a Reply 










Enter your comment here...










Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:








































 






Email 
(Address never made public)








Name








Website






























 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Twitter account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Facebook account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Google+ account. 
( 
 / 
 )












Connecting to %s










 
Notify me of new comments via email.
 
Notify me of new posts via email.


 








 




























	Copyright © 2015 Heavy, Inc. All rights reserved. Powered by 








Related posts from this category































































