'Disaster level' response after shooting at Umpqua Community College | Local & Regional | KATU.com - Portland News, Sports, Traffic Weather and Breaking News - Portland, Oregon  


'Disaster level' response after shooting at Umpqua Community College | Local & Regional | KATU.com - Portland News, Sports, Traffic Weather and Breaking News - Portland, Oregon




























































Fri
Mostly Cloudy
H: 
69°
L: 
50°
Sat
Partly Cloudy
H: 
72°
L: 
49°
Sun
Sunny
H: 
78°
L: 
52°












Search






















 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








 
 
 
 
 














 
 
 
 
 








 
 








 
 
 














 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






































'Disaster level' response after shooting at Umpqua Community College





    
              By 


News Staff








Published:  
Oct 1, 2015
 at 11:05 AM PDT






Last Updated: 
Oct 1, 2015
 at 10:14 PM PDT










Share this story




















 








People gather together at the Douglas County Fairgrounds, where students and staff from Umpqua Community College evacuated after a deadly shooting on the Roseburg, Ore., campus October 1, 2015. Photo by Cameron Shultz








Story Photos


































This is a developing story. 
 for more on this story


ROSEBURG, Ore. – Ten people are dead and at least 7 others were injured in a mass shooting on the Umpqua Community College campus in Roseburg, according to the Oregon state Attorney General's Office.


The killer was identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer, according to a government official who was not authorized to speak publicly and provided the name on condition of anonymity. Authorities shed no light on his motive and said they were investigating


Earlier in the day, the attorney general and state police said as many as 13 were dead and more than 20 injured.


In a press conference late Thursday afternoon, the Douglas County Sheriff's Office said it could confirm 10 people are dead and another 7 injured, 3 of them critically. The sheriff could not confirm whether the shooter was included in that count of 10 dead.


Officials said the shooting started at Snyder Hall around 10:30 a.m. Thursday.


All of the dead are in one building that houses six to eight classrooms, the official said. He said there were "multiple patients in multiple classrooms."


Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg said they are treating ten of those injured in the shooting.


Three people have been air lifted to Riverbend Hospital in Springfield, Ore. where a spokesperson says "this is a disaster level" emergency response.


People are being asked to stay away from the campus as students and faculty members are being bused to the Douglas County Fairgrounds for pickup.


Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin said the shooting was "very frightening for a lot of people who were responding. ... This is a huge shock to the entire community to have this level of crime."




Investigators are looking into reports that the shooter may have posted a warning about carrying out the shooting to a social media site on Wednesday.


Former Umpqua Community College president Joe Olson says
, and that person isn't armed. The college has about 3,000 students enrolled.




The community will be holding a 
candlelight vigil at 8 p.m. in Stewart Park
 on West Stanton Street  to support the victims and their families in the wake of this tragic event. Organizers are asking attendees to bring supplies, as they expect a large turnout.


Mercy Medical Center will have a blood donation van in its west parking lot at noon Friday if anyone wants to donate blood.


Umpqua Community College will be closed until Monday (Oct. 5) as investigators work the crime scene. All student activities have been cancelled for the weekend.




 






 








 






















Most Popular










































































Download Our Apps




Morning News App




 | 






Weather App






 | 








 


 
































Copyright © 2015



						Sinclair Interactive Media
						


 
KATU, 2153 N.E. Sandy Blvd., 


 Portland, 


 OR 


 97232




 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 


 Copyright © 2015 Sinclair Interactive Media, LLC; a member of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.




For assistance accessing the 
 please contact:


Laurie Shirley at 


 




Powered by 
.


 











































