Police shootout with Oregon college shooter caught on audio  - NY Daily News  
 
Police shootout with Oregon college shooter caught on audio  - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
911 audio reveals moment when police traded gunfire with Oregon community college shooter
 
 BY  
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Updated: Friday, October 2, 2015, 9:07 AM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

	Dramatic 911 recordings caught the moment Oregon police exchanged fatal fire with the 
 — amid frantic calls for as many ambulances as possible.



	“We have an active shooter at UCC,” was the first emergency broadcast that went across the Douglas County emergency dispatch system just after 10:38 a.m.



	As multiple police cars raced to the Roseburg campus, 911 operators fed them more detail about the unfolding horror.



	“[At] UCC, Snyder Hall, somebody is outside one of the doors shooting through the doors, there is a female in the computer lab,” the operator said.







	“We do have one female who has been shot at this time, we’re still attempting to get further ..” she said, before the radio communication cut out.



	A few moments later, the operator relayed more information to responding police.



	“Approximately 35 people in Snyder Hall, in the classrooms,” she said.
 
 
 
 
Mike Sullivan/AP
 
Police search students outside Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore. after Thursday's deadly shooting.
 
 
 







	Cops arriving on the scene demanded ambulances — asking the dispatcher to send two right away.



	Then an excited male voice broke in.



	“We exchanged shots with him, he’s in a classroom on the east side of Snyder Hall,” the officer barked.



	“Copy exchanging gun shots with male right now,” the operator repeated back.







	“Unconfirmed report that he’s got a long gun,” the male officer added.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chris Pietsch/AP
 
Officers direct traffic on a road leading to the Umpqua Community College campus after the shooting.
 
 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/AP
 
Authorities carry a shooting victim away from the scene.
 
 
 
 
Ryan Kang/AP
 
Members of law enforcement have a meeting at the local fairgrounds after a deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



	“Copy that,” the operator replied.



	The next interaction signaled the end of the shooting.



	“The suspect is down. We’ve got multiple gun shot wounds. We’re going to need multiple ambulances on scene,” demanded an officer.







	“Upwards of 20 victims, please dispatch as many ambulances as possible,” the officer added seconds later.



	The full tragedy of the scene became apparent as agonized police counted as many as 15 possible fatalities.



	“Notify Mercy [Hospital] of major trauma, we have 15 deceased, and we’re triaging others at this time,” one cop said.
 
 
 



	“We need any available support that can be sent at this time.”







	Authorities later put the death toll at 10. The shooter killed nine before police fatally shot him, making him the tenth fatality.



	At least seven were wounded, three critically, officials said.



	The shooter, a 20-year-old, was killed by police fire after he exchanged shots with the officers. 




ON A MOBILE DEVICE? 
 
 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tags:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


News
 Video






 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 