Obama Condemns ‘Routine’ of Mass Shootings, Says U.S. Has Become Numb - The New York Times  








Obama Condemns ‘Routine’ of Mass Shootings, Says U.S. Has Become Numb - The New York Times
















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.






















Sections




Home




Search
























|
Obama Condemns ‘Routine’ of Mass Shootings, Says U.S. Has Become Numb








Advertisement
















Search






Log In


0


Settings










Close search






search sponsored by














Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go
























Loading...










See next articles












See previous articles


















 
















Advertisement














 


Obama Condemns ‘Routine’ of Mass Shootings, Says U.S. Has Become Numb




By 
 and 
OCT. 1, 2015






Inside








Supported by




















Video




Obama on Oregon College Shooting






The president delivered remarks from the White House after a gunman opened fire at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.



                    By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS on                                                                
Publish Date 
October 1, 2015.
                                    



                                            Photo by Zach Gibson/The New York Times.
                                    






































Advertisement




































Share This Page


















WASHINGTON —  
’s rage about gun massacres, building for years, spilled out Thursday night as he acknowledged his own powerlessness to prevent another tragedy and pleaded with voters to force change themselves.
“So tonight, as those of us who are lucky enough to hug our kids a little closer are thinking about the families who aren’t so fortunate,” the president said in the James S. Brady Press Briefing Room, named for a man severely wounded by a would-be assassin’s bullet, “I’d ask the American people to think about how they can get our government to change these laws, and to save these lives and let these people grow up.”
Mr. Obama admitted that he was unable to do anything to prevent such tragedies by himself. And he did little to try to hide the anger and frustration that have deepened as he returns again and again to the White House lectern in the wake of a deadly mass shooting.
 









                            Related Coverage
                    










Chris Harper Mercer, Oregon Gunman, Is Recalled as a Recluse Close to His Mother
OCT. 2, 2015










Oregon Shooting at Umpqua College Kills 10, Sheriff Says
OCT. 1, 2015












Mr. Obama took a veiled swipe at the National Rifle Association, which has successfully fought most limits on gun use and manufacture and has pushed through legislation in many states making gun ownership far easier. “And I would particularly ask America’s gun owners who are using those guns properly, safely, to hunt for sport, for protecting their families, to think about whether your views are being properly represented by the organization that suggests it is speaking for you,” he said.




Video




Dispatcher Alerts Police of Shooting






On Thursday afternoon, police officers secured the scene of a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.



                    By REUTERS on                                                                
Publish Date 
October 1, 2015.
                                    



                                            Photo by Mike Sullivan/Roseburg News-Review, via Associated Press.
                                    


































Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the N.R.A., declined to respond to Mr. Obama, saying that it was the organization’s policy “not to comment until all the facts are known.” Wayne LaPierre, the organization’s executive vice president, 
 in Newtown, Conn., “The only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun.”
On Thursday night, Mr. Obama said that given the frequency of mass shootings, people had “become numb to this.”
“And what’s become routine, of course, is the response of those who oppose any kind of common-sense gun legislation,” Mr. Obama said. “Right now, I can imagine the press releases being cranked out. ‘We need more guns,’ they’ll argue. ‘Fewer gun-safety laws.’ ”
“Does anybody really believe that?” he asked, his voice rising.
Mr. Obama sought to answer that question years ago. After the massacre in 2012 of 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, he promised to use all the powers of his office to push for legislative changes that polls suggest were widely supported.
 
















“Are we really prepared to say that we’re powerless in the face of such carnage, that the politics are too hard?” 
 then.
Less than a month later, Mr. Obama unveiled a proposal to overhaul the nation’s gun laws that would have included universal background checks and a spate of other measures he deemed “concrete steps” aimed at preventing more mass shootings.
“This is how we will be judged,” he said in January 2013.
The judgment came just a few months later, as lawmakers from both parties forcefully rejected the centerpiece of the president’s gun control agenda. At the time, and also visibly upset, Mr. Obama stood in the Rose Garden to denounce the opponents of new gun measures even as he acknowledged the futility of his efforts.


Advertisement










Advertisement






He called it a “
” in Washington and promised that eventually, “I believe we’re going to be able to get this done.” In a Twitter message on Thursday, Dan Pfeiffer, who was a senior adviser to Mr. Obama until this year, remembered that afternoon as “the most frustrated I ever saw President Obama in 8 years.”




Video




Obama’s Responses to Mass Shootings






Over six years, as he has had to address numerous mass shootings, President Obama’s statements have grown angrier and more beleaguered. (This video was updated on Oct. 1, 2015)



                    By CAITLIN PRENTKE on                                                                
Publish Date 
June 26, 2015.
                                    



                                            Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times.
                                    


































With each massacre since, Mr. Obama has been forced to help the country grieve, as presidents are called upon to do in national tragedies. Thirteen dead at the 
; three dead at 
 in Killeen, Tex.; nine dead in a church in 
, S.C.
And with each massacre, his sense of powerless anger and frustration has built.
But what was different this time was that the president did not announce any new initiative or effort to fix the problem. Instead, he pointed out that there is “a gun for roughly every man, woman and child in America. So how can you with a straight face make the argument that more guns will make us safer?”
States and countries that have gun limits have far fewer gun deaths than those that do not, he said. “So we know there are ways to prevent it,” he said.
He pointed out that the government responds to mine disasters by insisting on safer mines, to weather disasters by improving community safety, and to highway deaths by fixing roads and insisting that drivers wear seatbelts.







            Guns and Mental Illness        


















 








But guns are seen as so different that Congress has forbidden the federal government even to collect certain statistics, he said. He rejected the notion that the Constitution forbids even modest regulation of deadly weapons.
He also asked news organizations to tally the number of Americans killed by terrorist attacks over the last 10 years and compare that with the number killed by domestic gun violence. And he implicitly compared the trillions of dollars spent and multiple agencies devoted to preventing the relatively few terrorism deaths with the minimal effort and money spent to prevent the far greater number of gun deaths.
And then he challenged voters to make gun safety a priority.
“If you think this is a problem, then you should expect your elected officials to reflect your views,” he said.
Mr. Obama has long been seen as fairly unemotional, even distant. His speeches since being elected in 2008 have sometimes seemed like lectures from the constitutional law professor he once was. But he is also a father, one who insists on eating dinner with his daughters.
Shootings, particularly at schools, have seemingly brought together his roles as president and father in ways nothing else has. And that combination brings forth the kind of raw emotion he almost never betrays.
His 
 in June for the victims of the massacre in Charleston, for instance, was widely considered one of his most impassioned, and included singing the opening refrain of “Amazing Grace.”
Thursday night, he had little of the soaring language and certainly none of the hope he expressed in Charleston. But he promised to continue hammering away at this issue for the rest of his presidency.
“Each time this happens, I’m going to bring this up,” he said. “Each time this happens, I’m going to say that we can actually do something about it.”






A version of this article appears in print on October 2, 2015, on page A1 of the 
New York edition
 with the headline: ‘Save These Lives and Let These People Grow Up’ . 
 
|
 
|
























Loading...
























Site Index
















News
























































































Opinion


















































































Arts


















































































Living
























































































Listings & More




































































































Subscribe




Subscribe




















































































































 The New York Times Company







































































