Umpqua Community College Shooting Multiple Deaths 

Umpqua Community College Shooting Multiple Deaths






Please upgrade your browser for the best Refinery29 experience.  
.










































Sign Up






Choose Your Editions





















        Shopping
      















        London
      















        New York
      



















        Everywhere
      















        Chicago
      















        Los Angeles
      















        San Francisco
      














Oops! That's not a real email address.














Now we're email buddies!






You have chosen to receive our 
#NAMED_LISTS#
 newsletters at #EMAIL_ADDRESS#. You will receive an e-mail shortly confirming your subscription. So excited to have you!


xoxo, 
 Refinery 29




























































































Search






search


x













































                  Local
        
      


































































































































































































































































































Now reading

            Update: Oregon Gunman Identified



































    SHARE IT
  

















    Saved! Access Favorites in your account profile.
  





    Removed from my favorites
  




















Update: Oregon Gunman Identified







    
    comments
    


















Oct 1, 2015 9:30 PM







































      SHARE IT
    






























Photo: Mike Sullivan/AP Photo.






UPDATE: 
The gunman responsible for the mass shooting at Umpqua Community College has been identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer, reports 
. Authorities are now saying that 10 people were killed and seven wounded. Earlier reports had put the death toll at 13. 
"He appears to be an angry young man who was very filled with hate,” one official said. 
This story was originally published on October 1 at 5:10 p.m.
:
Multiple people are reported dead in a mass shooting incident at a community college in Oregon on Thursday morning, with more injured. The Oregon's attorney general listed 
, but Douglas County Sheriff John Hamlin said he could not confirm that number.
The attack took place at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, OR. 






BREAKING: Oregon attorney general says 13 dead in shooting at community college campus.
— The Associated Press (@AP) 








The shooter is dead, killed in police crossfire, according to Sherrif Hamlin. The gunman is reported to be a 
 who may have posted about the shooting in an online forum last night. CNN reports that the man started the shooting in one building, went to a second, and seemed to be 
. 
 Calls to 911 began coming in at 10:38 a.m. local time. A student at the school called the scene chaotic, with "
 everywhere." 
"We arrived to find multiple patients in multiple classrooms. Law enforcement was on scene and had the shooter neutralized," Ray Shoufler, the Douglas County Fire Marshal, 
.




Emergency responders from multiple jurisdictions were dispatched, including ATF agents 
 with canine units. 
 as they were escorted off campus and bussed to a local fairground. 
Oregon senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley shared their condolences with the victims and their loved ones on social media.






Roseburg is a small town about 180 miles south of Portland. Umpqua Community College, where the incident occurred, enrolls about 3,000 full-time and 16,000 part-time students. UCC's Facebook page describes the campus as being "nestled in the beautiful North Umpqua River Valley" and calls the school "the regional center for higher education."
Students had just returned to campus for the 2015 school year.
This the 45th school shooting in the United States this year, according to stats compiled by 
, and the 142nd since the massacre at Sandy Hook in Newtown, Connecticut. 
This is a breaking story, check back for updates.


 Related Stories:






















































 /
                  
Umpqua Community College Shooting Multiple Deaths






















Trending Right Now


















President Obama addressed the mass shooting that occurred at Oregon's Umpqua Community College with an impassioned speech about gun control.   He opened his talk by offering condolences and prayers to victims' families and thanking first responders. He then went on to discuss the dire need for...


















If you don't have a corporate job, the chances that you think of a suit as an actual wearable, necessary wardrobe item are probably pretty slim. Even if you 
do
 work in a very formal office, a suit is the last thing you think of as the “cool” thing to wear — but, the runways, red carpets, and...


















Dating has never really been as simple as "left" or "right," and it looks like Tinder has finally picked up on that. With the app's latest update, you can go from just Liking that cute redhead to 
Super Liking
 that cute redhead. And that, dear friend, will make all difference.  Rather than swiping...
























Company




































Connect with R29






























































 








Made with 
love
 in NYC



















































































































