Obama shows anger while speaking on Oregon college shooting - NY Daily News  
 
Obama shows anger while speaking on Oregon college shooting - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
President Obama shows anger while speaking on Oregon community college shooting; ‘We’ve become numb to this’
 
 BY  
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Updated: Friday, October 2, 2015, 8:05 AM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark Wilson/Getty Images
 
President Obama said it's time lawmakers address the gun control issue.
 
 
 
 
Susan Walsh/AP
 
'Somehow this has become routine,' Obama said during a briefing at the White House, discussing the Oregon college shooting on Thursday. 'We’ve become numb to this.'
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

	An angry President Obama said the U.S. has become “numb” to mass shooting like the 
 Thursday morning that left at least 10 people killed and seven injured.



	“Somehow this has become routine,” Obama said during a briefing at the White House. “We’ve become numb to this.”



	Obama, shaking at times as he gathered his thoughts, signaled that he wants lawmakers to address the issue of gun control.




 
 
 
 
 











	“It means there is another community stunned with grief,” Obama said. “Our shouts and prayers are not enough. It’s not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger we should feel.”



	“Each time this happens I’m going to bring this up,” he said. “This is not something I can do myself.”




 
 











	Obama also encouraged the press and the public not to ignore the number of shootings that have plagued the country in recent years.



	“I hope and pray that I don't have to come out again during my tenure as President to offer my condolences to families, but based on my experience as President I can’t guarantee that. And that’s terrible to say. And it can change,” Obama said.



	Obama, briefed on the shooting by the homeland security adviser, Lisa Monaco, seemed truly shaken by the tragedy at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg.




 
 
 







	The shooting started at 10:38 a.m. while classes were in session, police said. Witnesses said the shooter asked people to state their religion before opening fire.



	The shooter, a 20-year-old male who has not been identified, was also dead after exchanging gunfire with police, according to Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin.








 
 
 
 
 







	The 2-year school, located about 67 miles south of Eugene, has roughly 3,300 full-time students and 16,000 part-time students, according to its website.



	“This is a political choice that we make to allow this to happen every few months in America,” Obama said. “May God bless the memory of those who were killed today.”



	The President also spoke following a deadly mass shooting in June, when nine parishioners were killed at a historic black church in Charleston, S.C.




 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/AP
 
Students, staff and faculty are evacuated from Umpqua Community College on Thursday.
 
 
 







	At the time, Obama said the shootings showed the need for a 
.



	Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton called the shooting beyond comprehension and said “we are seeing these mass murders happen again and again and again.”



	The Justice Department said U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch was also receiving regular briefings from the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, which had agents at the scene.




ON A MOBILE DEVICE? 




.


 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tags:
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Politics
 Video






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 