Plan for Armed Campus Security Guards Was Dismissed - The New York Times  








Plan for Armed Campus Security Guards Was Dismissed - The New York Times










Sections




Home




Search























			                Live Coverage			        


|

        Plan for Armed Campus Security Guards Was Dismissed        
    








Advertisement














Search






Log In


0


Settings










Close search




search sponsored by














Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go


















 
























 
Mass Shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon: Live Updates







						The New York Times					


October 1, 2015


October 1, 2015
 




























2:56 pm ET


Oct 1, 2015


2015-10-02T04:28:11+00:00


















 


The Times has concluded its live coverage of the shooting at Umpqua Community College. Look back at how events unfolded below.




 and seven were wounded in a mass shooting at a community college in southwestern Oregon, according to law enforcement officials.


A law enforcement official identified the gunman as Chris Harper Mercer, 26. The authorities said he died during an exchange of gunfire.


Officials said he had three weapons, including a long gun and handguns.
















7:32 pm ET


Oct 1, 2015


2015-10-01T23:32:59+00:00












Timothy Williams


 








 


Joe Olson, who retired as president of Umpqua Community College at the end of June, said that within the past several months the college had discussed hiring an armed security guard but ultimately decided against it.


“We talked about that over the last year because we were concerned about safety on campus,” he said. “The campus was split 50-50. We thought we were a very safe campus, and having armed security officers on campus might change the culture.”


Dr. Olson, a former deputy sheriff in Massachusetts, said there had not been a specific incident that had prompted the idea of hiring armed security, but there was a generalized fear. He said he did not believe a security guard could prevent a gunman determined to kill.


“If you want to come on the campus and you want to shoot five people, you are going to do that before our security would arrive,” he said.


Dr. Olson said the typical student on the Umpqua campus was older than the average college student, and many were taking courses in nursing, automobile mechanics and welding to learn new skills. Many had lost jobs in the timber industry, he said.






 




















Photo




Credit
 Google Earth














Officials said Chris Harper Mercer, 26, went on a shooting rampage in Roseburg, Ore., and that he died after an exchange of gunfire with the police.


U.S.


By DIRK VANDERHART, KIRK JOHNSON and JULIE TURKEWITZ


October 2, 2015










 
















Advertisement






















 The New York Times Company






































 



























