Terrorism vs. Gun Violence - The New York Times  








Terrorism vs. Gun Violence - The New York Times










Sections




Home




Search























			                Live Coverage			        


|

        Terrorism vs. Gun Violence        
    








Advertisement














Search






Log In


0


Settings










Close search




search sponsored by














Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go


















 
























 
Mass Shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon: Live Updates







						The New York Times					


October 1, 2015


October 1, 2015
 




























2:56 pm ET


Oct 1, 2015


2015-10-02T04:28:11+00:00


















 


The Times has concluded its live coverage of the shooting at Umpqua Community College. Look back at how events unfolded below.




 and seven were wounded in a mass shooting at a community college in southwestern Oregon, according to law enforcement officials.


A law enforcement official identified the gunman as Chris Harper Mercer, 26. The authorities said he died during an exchange of gunfire.


Officials said he had three weapons, including a long gun and handguns.
















7:16 pm ET


Oct 1, 2015


2015-10-01T23:16:43+00:00












Gardiner Harris


 


Washington, D.C.








 


President Obama, as visibly angry and frustrated as he has ever appeared in a public setting, said that mass shootings have become so routine that “we’ve become numb to this.”


But he also sought to break through that numbness by asking news organizations to tally the number of Americans killed by terrorist attacks in the past 10 years and compare that to the number of those killed in domestic gun violence. He implicitly compared the trillions of dollars spent and multiple agencies devoted to prevent the relatively few terrorist deaths with the minimal effort and money spent to prevent the far greater tragedy of gun deaths.


And then he challenged voters to make gun safety a priority.


“If you think this is a problem, then you should expect your elected officials to reflect your views,” Mr. Obama said. He promised to continue hammering away at this issue for the rest of his presidency.


“And each time this happens, I’m going to bring this up,” he said. “Each time this happens, I’m going to say that we can actually do something about it.”






 




















Photo




Credit
 Google Earth














Officials said Chris Harper Mercer, 26, went on a shooting rampage in Roseburg, Ore., and that he died after an exchange of gunfire with the police.


U.S.


By DIRK VANDERHART, KIRK JOHNSON and JULIE TURKEWITZ


October 2, 2015










 
















Advertisement






















 The New York Times Company






































 



























