President Obama on Umpqua Community College shooting: ‘Our thoughts and prayers are not enough’ | fox8.com  


President Obama on Umpqua Community College shooting: ‘Our thoughts and prayers are not enough’ | fox8.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu
































Cleveland












53°






Low 
49°


High 
59°








Akron/Canton












47°






Low 
45°


High 
61°


















 








 






















 








President Obama on Umpqua Community College shooting: ‘Our thoughts and prayers are not enough’




Posted 6:57 pm, October 1, 2015, by 
 and 
, 
Updated at 09:12pm, October 1, 2015
 




 














 










Please enable Javascript to watch this video








WASHINGTON, D.C.--  President Barack Obama says the U.S. is becoming numb to mass shootings and says their perpetrators have "sickness" in their minds.


He says thoughts and prayers are no longer enough in these situations because they don't do anything to stop similar acts from happening in the next week or a few months later. “As I said a few months ago and before that, our thoughts and prayers are not enough. It’s not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel.”


Obama spoke Thursday after at least 10
 by a gunman at Umpqua Community College in southwestern Oregon.


Photo show officers were on site to respond to the shooting at Umpqua Community College. This photo was taken today by student, Noel Crowner who had just returned to school this week. (Noel Crownover/Instagram via CNN)


The President said we have to change our laws and he said he can't do it by himself. He made a plea to Americans. "I’d ask the American people to think how we can get the American government to change these laws to save lives, to let young people grow up- that will require a change of politics on this issue." President Obama went on to say, "I would ask America’s gun owners who are using those guns properly, safely– to hunt; sport; for protecting their families– to think about whether your views are properly being represented."


**Watch his entire address in the video above and 
 for the latest information**












 




38.907192


-77.036871








Related stories


















Trademark and Copyright 2015 
. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Pet Place
Get your animal fix with FOX 8’s Pet Place!










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps










































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		5800 South Marginal Road, Cleveland, OH 44103 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WJW		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































