Oregon cop in take down of Chris Harper Mercer identified - NY Daily News  
 
Oregon cop in take down of Chris Harper Mercer identified - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXCLUSIVE: Oregon cop Joe Kaney identified as officer involved in take down of college shooter Chris Harper Mercer
 
 BY  
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEVE DIPAOLA/REUTERS
 
Umpqua Community College alumnus Donice Smith (L) is embraced after she said one of her former teachers was shot dead, near the site of a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg,Oregon October 1, 2015. A gunman opened fire at a community college in southern Oregon on Thursday, killing 13 people and wounding some 20 others before he was shot to death by police, state and county officials said, in the latest mass killing to rock a U.S. school. There were conflicting reports on the number of dead and wounded in the shooting rampage in Roseburg, which began shortly after 10:30 a.m. local time (1730 GMT). REUTERS/Steve Dipaola
 
 
 
 

	Minutes after the 
 began Thursday morning, Sgt. Joe Kaney with Roseburg Police rushed into the chaos.



	He and a fellow officer were able to engage the shooter and take him out, a family friend told the Daily News.



	Reached at his home Thursday night, Kaney, 49, declined to comment or even confirm his involvement, but his wife beamed with pride.
 
 
 
 
Myspace
 
Chris Harper Mercer, 26, was identified as the man who opened fire at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.
 
 
 







	"Well of course he's a hero, yeah," his wife Dayna Kaney told The News.
 
 
 
 
Facebook
 
Dayna Kaney said she was "happy" he was able to respond in a way that likely saved lives and then return home safe.
 
 
 



	Dayna said she was "happy" he was able to respond in a way that likely saved lives and then return home safe.



	The friend said Kaney and his wife watched a movie together Thursday night to try and take his mind off the traumatic and heartbreaking day.
 
 
 
 
 
 







	"We know that we have at least two heroic officers who exchanged gunfire with the suspect," Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin said at an emotional evening press conference during which he vowed to never utter the shooter's name.
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEVE DIPAOLA/REUTERS
 
Umpqua Community College alumnus Donice Smith (left) is embraced after she said one of her former teachers was shot dead, near the site of a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore. October 1, 2015.
 
 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/The News-Review via Reuters
 
First responders transport an injured person following a shooting incident at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore. October 1, 2015.
 
 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/The News-Review via AP
 
A bullet casing is marked at the scene of a deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015.
 
 
 
 
Michael Sullivan/The News-Review via Reuters
 
Police officers inspect bags as students and staff are evacuated from campus following a shooting incident at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon October 1, 2015.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



	Earlier in the day he told reporters that officers engaged the suspect in an “exchange of gunfire” that “neutralized” the threat.



	Kaney commands his department's Criminal Investigations Division, according to the City of Roseburg website.
 
 
 







	He reportedly was shot in the line of duty back in 2005 and later wrote the department's body camera policy.



	It's not clear if he was wearing a camera during the campus rampage that ended Thursday with at least 10 dead.




Nancy Dillon is reporting from Roseburg, Oregon.




ON A MOBILE DEVICE? 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tags:
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


News
 Video






 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 