Chris Harper Mercer – Umpqua Community College shooter identified | FOX2now.com  


Chris Harper Mercer – Umpqua Community College shooter identified | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































51°






Low 
48°


High 
69°












Sat





					49° 
 67°
					






Sun





					48° 
 66°
					






Mon





					55° 
 75°
					
















 








 






















 








Chris Harper Mercer – Umpqua Community College shooter identified




Posted 8:20 pm, October 1, 2015, by 
 




 
















Investigators have identified the Umpqua Community College shooter as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer, multiple law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation told CNN. Investigators have been interviewing members of his family and friends, the sources said.


Ten people were killed when the gunman opened fire at the college on Thursday, forcing the nation to face yet another mass shooting.


Seven other people were injured, and the shooter is dead, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin told reporters. Earlier estimates had put the number of people hurt much higher.


The shooting appears to have started in one building before the gunman moved to the school’s science building, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN. Those killed and wounded were found in at least two classrooms.


“We arrived to find multiple patients in multiple classrooms. Law enforcement was on scene and had the shooter neutralized,” said Douglas County Fire Marshal Ray Shoufler.


He told CNN that two patients died while being transported to a hospital.


Mercy Medical Center posted on Facebook that it had received 10 patients. The extent of their injuries was not known.


Three female victims were at PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend in Springfield, according to a hospital spokeswoman.


It wasn’t immediately clear why the hospitals’ numbers conflicted with the figure provided by Sheriff Hanlin.


A law enforcement official told CNN three pistols and one rifle believed to have belonged to the suspect were recovered at the scene.


ATF agents were also on scene and canine teams were en route to search for explosives, fire arms casings and ammunition, a spokesman said. FBI agents were en route.


Roseburg is a city of about 22,000 people about 70 miles south of Eugene, Oregon, and some 180 miles south of Portland.


A picturesque campus in the North Umpqua River Valley, Umpqua Community College prides itself on a “a peaceful, safe atmosphere, and year-round recreational activities,” according to its website.


The school will be closed until Monday as a result of the shooting.








Related stories
















Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
, 
, 
, 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Watch FOX 2 Now!
Watch our newscasts from the comfort of your phone or computer 24/7.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps






































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































