Umpqua College Shooting | Heavy.com 

Umpqua College Shooting | Heavy.com














































































































































































 











      Umpqua College Shooting    












Get The Top 5 News Stories Each Day in Your InBox 
We will never share your email address.
 


 




















Chris Mintz  was shot five times rushing the gunman at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. See pictures of the hero, student, father, and Army vet here.





        1 hour ago      




 


























Chris Mintz, a 30-year-old student, father and Army veteran, was shot five times while rushing the gunman at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon.







      8 hours ago    




 


12.5k
 


















As details emerge about Chris Harper Mercer, we’re learning about his family. His mom is a nurse who wanted him to love nature. His father’s still in shock. 







      11 hours ago    




 


16k
 
















The Westboro Baptist Church has tweeted from their account saying they will picket the funerals of the victims of the Umpqua Community College shooting.







      11 hours ago    




 


3.4k
 
















Reported Umpqua Community College gunman Chris Mercer had a blog where he wrote about WDBJ7 TV shooter Vester Lee Flanagan and the murder of Deputy Darren Goforth.







      11 hours ago    




 


19.2k
 
















A blog post allegedly written by reported Umpqua Community College gunman Chris Mercer Harper seems to idolize Vester Flanagan, the man who killed 2 WDBJ7 TV reporters on-camera.







      12 hours ago    




 


9.5k
 
















As President Obama strives to “politicize” the Umpqua Community College shooting, what were shooter Chris Harper-Mercer’s beliefs?







      12 hours ago    




 


13.4k
 


















Alleged Umpqua Community College shooter Chris Harper Mercer took the lives of 10 people in Roseburg, Oregon. He had an online dating profile on “Spiritual Passions.”







      12 hours ago    




 


32.4k
 
















Chris Harper Mercer has been identified as the gunman in the shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon that left 10 dead.







      13 hours ago    




 


449.6k
 
















Chris Harper Mercer is the alleged gunman who killed 10 at Umpqua Community College. But did he say he was going to on a shooting spree on 4Chan the night before?







      18 hours ago    




 


264.4k
 
















Ten people were killed and seven others wounded in a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, authorities say.







      20 hours ago    




 


64.3k
 


























	Copyright © 2015 Heavy, Inc. All rights reserved. Powered by 









































