Oregon gunman Chris Harper-Mercer lived in Torrance, graduated from Switzer Center  


Oregon gunman Chris Harper-Mercer lived in Torrance, graduated from Switzer Center
































Right now


 






Today's high








Today's low






 
















































 


 








 














 


 


 


 
















 












 


 














Go














 


 


 












































 








































 






























 






















 














 




















 




























 




























 




























 




 


 


 


 


 








































































































































 
























 →


 →


 →


School shootings




Oregon gunman Chris Harper-Mercer lived in Torrance, graduated from Switzer Center













        This photo appears on a MySpace page belonging to Chris Harper-Mercer. The caption reads, "Me, holding a rifle. It was supposed to be all the way in the picture, but it didn't work out. Only the barrel shows." (MySpace photo)
        





















  By
  
, Daily Breeze








  and
  
, Daily Breeze








                                            Posted: 
                                        
10/01/15, 7:33 PM PDT


|


Updated: 2 hrs ago





















                This photo shows an aerial view of Umpqua Community College, in Roseburg, Ore., where the deadly shooting occurred, Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (Thomas Boyd /The Oregonian via AP)
                
















Chris Harper Mercer, the man accused of opening fire at a rural Oregon community college Thursday, formerly lived in the South Bay and attended a school for teens with emotional disabilities.
Records show Harper-Mercer, 26, lived in a ground-floor apartment on Arlington Avenue at 230th Street in Torrance with his mother, Laurel Harper, from 2011 to 2013. The owner of the building said he did not know them and neighbors did not recall them.
But current residents, greeted by reporters knocking at their doors late Thursday, were shocked to learn that the man suspected of committing the nation’s latest mass shooting had lived in their building.






“It’s extremely surreal,” said resident Shannon Medrano. “I don’t remember him. If I could see a picture of his mom, maybe it could jog some memory. I wonder what his experience was like here. This is not a big building. I’m sure we crossed paths at some point.”
Lists of South Bay graduates from 2009 published in the Daily Breeze showed Harper Mercer graduated from the Switzer Learning Center in Torrance with four other students. Switzer teaches students with learning disabilities and emotional issues.






A former behavioral aide at Switzer, who did not want her name used, said the majority of the students at the school are from foster, low-income and single-parent homes. Some of these students were expelled from other schools or had been in trouble with the law.
The school is divided among special needs students and those with behavioral problems.
Records showed Harper Mercer and his mother moved to Winchester, Ore., in 2013. In addition to Torrance, Harper showed previous addresses in Lomita, Harbor Gateway and Lomita.






CBS News reported that Harper Mercer’s stepsister said he was born in England and moved to the United States as a young boy. Harper Mercer’s father, who lives in Tarzana, married her mother, and the stepsister said the last time she spoke with Harper-Mercer was a year ago.
In Torrance, Medrano said it was shocking to learn Harper Mercer reportedly shot his victims after asking them if they were Christian.
“I wonder what happened in his life that brought him to that point,” Medrano said. “It’s heartbreaking.”










Advertisement








On a profile that appeared to belong to Harper-Mercer on the Spiritual Passions dating website, where he listed himself as Ironcross45, Harper Mercer said he was “looking for someone who shares my beliefs, and is similar to me.”
He described himself as a straight college student, a “teetotaller,” a conservative Republican and into punk industrial rock music. He described his interests and hobbies as “Internet, killing zombies, movies, music, reading.”
“Socially, I am shy at first, but warm up quickly, better in small groups,”  he wrote. “I’m looking for romance, soulmate, conversation ... the yin to my yang, dating, penpal, friends only, relationship, miss right.”






He described himself as “not religious” and listed his groups as “Doesn’t Like Organized Religion,’ “Left-hnd path,” “Magick and Occult,” and “Not Religious but Spiritual.”
Witnesses said the shooter at Umpqua Community College near Roseburg, Ore., asked his victims whether they were Christians. Those who said they were reportedly were shot in the head, while others were shot in the legs. At least 10 people were killed.
Staff writers Megan Barnes and Donna Littlejohn and researcher Sam Gnerre contributed to this article.










About the Authors








Daily Breeze crime reporter since 1990. Reach the author at 

         or follow Larry on Twitter: 
.
























Reporter covering Torrance, Lomita, Rolling Hills Estates and Palos Verdes Estates. Nick also covers soccer as a sports columnist.  Reach the author at 

         or follow Nick on Twitter: 
.




























Related








































































































































































































 


 






















































































































 




Copyright © Inland Valley Daily Bulletin












 


 





