As Portrait of Oregon Gunman Emerges, Family 'as Shocked as Anyone Else'  | NBC Southern California 

As Portrait of Oregon Gunman Emerges, Family 'as Shocked as Anyone Else'  | NBC Southern California






























































Blogs


































Blogs






































































 
 
 
 
 










 | 
 | 










 












































 




















































































































As Portrait of Oregon Gunman Emerges, Family 'as Shocked as Anyone Else'




By

                          


 and                                                                             










 
 | 
 
Email


 | 


 Print 




























































































Receive the latest local  updates in your inbox
















 | 




























As Portrait of Oregon Gunman Emerges...










Link


Embed


Email












Copy


Close


Link to this video




http://www.nbclosangeles.com/video/#!/news/local/As-Portrait-of-Oregon-Gunman-Emerges,-Family-'as-Shocked-as-Anyone-Else'/330399841








Copy


Close


Embed this video




















More videos (1 of 9)










«


»














The family of 26-year-old Chris Mercer were shocked by news of the mass shooting in Oregon and asked for privacy. Annette Arreola reports for NBC4 News Today in LA on Friday, Oct. 2, 2015. (Published Friday, Oct. 2, 2015)




Family members of the man who went on a deadly shooting rampage at a rural Oregon college told NBC4 that they were in shock and were still trying to understand why he resorted to violence.


The gunman, identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer,  opened fire inside a classroom at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon Thursday, killing at least nine people before dying in a shootout with police, authorities said. One survivor said he demanded his victims state their religion before he started shooting.


Video


"I don't know what to say," one family member said in an interview Thursday night from Tarzana, in the San Fernando Valley area of Los Angeles. "I'm shaking right now. He was a nice guy. He put everyone before himself. It doesn't sound right because he wanted everyone to be happy."


His father, Ian Mercer, told reporters gathered outside his Tarzana home where he and his wife live, said he was "just as shocked as anybody else," but declined to answer questions.




Oregon Residents Continue to Cope with Mass Shooting










Oregon residents continue to struggle with understanding why 26-year-old Chris Mercer went on a mass shooting at a community college. Robert Kovacik reports for NBC4 News Today in LA on Friday, Oct. 2, 2015. (Published Friday, Oct. 2, 2015)


Mercer's family asked for privacy as they dealt with the tragedy.


Former neighbors of the shooter who used to live in Torrance, about 20 miles south of downtown Los Angeles, said they instantly recognized him from the photo he posted on social media posing with a weapon.




"Yeah, that's him," Derrick McClendon said. "Stayed in number 9, him and his mom."


They recall Mercer and his mom shared a downstairs unit, then moved to Oregon about four years ago.




Father of Oregon Mass Shooter Shocked










The father of a 26-year-old man suspected of killing nine people in a  shooting at a community college in Oregon said he was in shock. Kate Larsen reports for the NBC4 News at 11 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (Published Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015)


"Everyday I'd come home from school," Bryan Clay said. "I'd see Chris, shaved head, combat boots, camo pants and a plain brown or white shirt. He kept to himself, really didn't say much.


"He would really just walk really fast, avoid anybody who came towards him."




Those who remember him said Mercer was mild-mannered and not known to own guns.


"It's just sad to see that people just go out and kill people for no reason," Paul Rogers said.






Shooting at Oregon Community College
 










The Daily Breeze reported that the Mercer graduated from Switzer Learning Center in Torrance in 2009. The newspaper cited records indicating that he lived with his mother in a ground-floor apartment in Torrance from 2011 to 2013.


An online search of the suspect's name points to a MySpace account referencing Torrance and bearing a photo of a man with a shaved head, with what appears to be the barrel of a rifle visible alongside him.




Elsewhere on the account are images of masked gunmen and praise for the Irish Republican Army, the outlawed paramilitary group committed to overthrowing Northern Ireland and its links with Britain.


An online search using the terms "Chris Mercer Torrance" turns up a whitepages.com entry for Chris Harper-Mercer, showing a cellphone number with a 310 area code and a land line number with a 541 area code, which covers most of Oregon.




Former Neighbors React to Oregon Mass Shooter










Former residents who live in Torrance where the Oregon college mass shooter had lived described him as quiet and mild mannered. Beverly White reports for the NBC4 News at 11 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (Published Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015)


It also listed an address for an apartment in Winchester, Oregon, which is about four miles north of Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, where the shooting took place about 10:30 a.m.


A neighbor in Oregon, Bronte Harte, told The Associated Press that Mercer "seemed really unfriendly" and would "sit by himself in the dark in the balcony with this little light."




Mourners Pay Tribute to Oregon Mass Shooting Victims










Mourners gathered to remember the victims of the mass shooting at an Oregon community college. Robert Kovacik reports for the NBC4 News at 11 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (Published Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015)


Harte said a woman she believed to be Mercer's mother also lived upstairs and was "crying her eyes out" Thursday.


The suspect was killed when police engaged him in a shootout, but it was unclear if he was fatally wounded by officers.






Southern California Images in the News
 










The shooting left seven other people wounded, according to authorities.


Authorities shed no light on his motive and said they were  investigating.






Southern California Crimes Caught on Camera
 










Annette Arreola, Jorge Diaz, Kate Larsen and NBC4 Wire Services contributed to this report.


Published at 7:47 PM PDT on Oct 1, 2015




 


























 
 | 
 
Email


 | 


Print


















 























































































































































































          © 2015 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved.
        









































