
	
            Oregon State Police News Releases  Active Shooter Update - Umpqua Community College
        
 


	
            Oregon State Police News Releases  Active Shooter Update - Umpqua Community College
        













 
 






















































































 




































 
    Text Size:  
    




   •  
    


  •







































































































                
        


















































































































































































































































Search
About Us
Contact Us
News Releases
OAHHS Media Code of Conduct
State Police Divisions



































                Active Shooter Update - Umpqua Community College 
            














Article Content
On October 1, 2015 at about 10:38AM, an active shooter was reported at the Umpqua Community College Campus in Roseburg, Oregon. 
The only information available at this time is: 
It is believed there is only one shooter who is no longer a threat. 
There is no current threat to the community. 
Staff and family are being taken by bus to the Douglas County Fairgrounds to meet family. Emergency personnel are urging the public to avoid the area as it could hamper emergency efforts. 
There has been a Joint Information Center established at the Douglas County Sheriff's Office in Roseburg. Media- please do not call PIO phones at this time as it is only slowing the gathering of information for the upcoming releases. Thank you for the understanding.



























































                Oregon.gov

























                Web Site Links





















































                PDF File Accessibility



                Adobe Reader, or equivalent, is required to view PDF files. Click the "Get Adobe Reader" image to get a free download of the reader from Adobe.
            


































Are you sure you would like to leave?








You are currently running an old version of IE, please upgrade for better performance.













































































