Oregon shootings: the gun-toting sheriff at odds with Obama | US news | The Guardian 



Oregon shootings: the gun-toting sheriff at odds with Obama | US news | The Guardian
































Close






















 














 


























































from the guardian:














change edition:






















































































›








































































































browse 
 sections



















































Oregon shootings: the gun-toting sheriff at odds with Obama



















Douglas County sheriff John Hanlin once described gun control as an ‘indisputable insult to the American people’



























Douglas County sheriff John Hanlin’s Facebook page is littered with posts bemoaning ‘liberal America’.
Photograph: Steve Dipaola/Reuters














Friday 2 October 2015 
05.48 EDT





Last modified on Friday 2 October 2015 
10.19 EDT














































































The Douglas County sheriff, John Hanlin, became the public face of the aftermath of 
, which left 10 people dead at an Oregon college. 


But for those advocating gun control in the US, the proudly gun-toting sheriff also represents the country’s “problem” with gun laws, as Barack Obama put it in the wake of the 
 killings.


The thick-set, crew-cut sheriff faced the media to confirm the killings at the Umpqua community college campus in Roseburg. But he refused to identify the shooter, named elsewhere as Chris Harper Mercer.


 “I will not give him the credit he probably sought with this horrific and cowardly act,” said Hanlin. “You will never hear me mention his name.” This approach heeds the advice of forensic psychiatrists including 
, who has repeatedly warned the media and authorities against glorifying mass murderers. 


Hanlin’s refusal to name the killer may win admiration, but his attitude to guns has prompted alarm. In his response to the killings, 
to lobby the authorities to implement “commonsense gun laws”. Sheriff Hanlin has done the opposite by lobbying the president, and others, against restrictions on gun ownership.


















 
 
 
 Sorry, your browser is unable to play this video. 





























Barack Obama on the Oregon shooting: our prayers are not enough





A letter by Hanlin, 
 in January 2013, showed that Hanlin wrote to the vice-president, Joe Biden, describing gun control as an “indisputable insult to the American people”. The letter was a response to failed White House push for stricter gun control after the 
 in Newton, Connecticut, in December 2012.


Hanlin was also one of hundreds of sheriffs to offer support to the constitutional sheriffs and peace officers association (CSPOA), an organisation founded by a former Arizona sheriff that describes its “last line of defence” against “unconstitutional gun control measures”.


He also backed a petition to the White House in December 2012 urging Obama to “stand with law-abiding gun owners in this time of tragedy”. It added: “Please don’t pander to the politics, Mr President. A feeding frenzy of new gun legislation is not the answer.”


Obama anticipated a similar response to his latest call for gun control. After the Oregon shootings, the president said: “Somebody, somewhere will comment and say, Obama politicised this issue. Well, this is something we should politicise.


“We spend over a trillion dollars, and pass countless laws, and devote entire agencies to preventing terrorist attacks on our soil, and rightfully so. And yet, we have a Congress that explicitly blocks us from even collecting data on how we could potentially reduce gun deaths. How can that be?”


Hanlin, who has worked in the Douglas County sheriff’s office for 25 years, is in his second term as sheriff after first being elected to the role in 2009.


His Facebook page is littered with posts bemoaning 
 and expressing support for the US’s powerful gun lobby. He shared a 
 showing a painting of the early founders of America with a caption that reads: “Remember when the colonists stood in line to register in their muskets? Me either.”

































John Hanlin shares a gun lobby message by Sarah Palin Photograph: Facebook





Hanlin, whose hobbies include hunting, fishing and 
, grew up in the Roseburg area and attended the Umpqua Community College in the early 1980s, 
.


Hanlin broke the news of the shootings with this statement to the press: “Obviously today here in southern Oregon it has not been a good afternoon, it has been a terrible day.” On this, at least, he and Obama would agree. 












Topics


























































































































 








































 


































































































































 sections






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































›


















































© 2015 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.






































 



