Oregon college shootings: witnesses recall horror as Obama calls for action | US news | The Guardian 



Oregon college shootings: witnesses recall horror as Obama calls for action | US news | The Guardian
































Close






















 














 


























































from the guardian:














change edition:






















































































›








































































































browse 
 sections



















































Oregon college shootings: witnesses recall horror as Obama calls for action



















Witnesses say killer, named as Chris Harper Mercer, asked victims their religion before shooting them, while US president appears visibly frustrated



























Students confort each other after the mass shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg.
Photograph: Steve Dipaola/Reuters









 and agencies





Friday 2 October 2015 
07.50 EDT





Last modified on Friday 2 October 2015 
10.39 EDT














































































 after at least nine people were killed at an Oregon community college by a gunman who witnesses said had demanded to know students’ religion before shooting them.


A visibly frustrated Barack Obama reacted to the 45th school shooting to take place in the US this year by telling Americans that “somehow this has become routine”.




 
Related: 
 




The killer, who was fatally shot in a gun battle with police following the rampage, has been named as Chris Harper Mercer, 26, who lived near Umpqua college, in the rural town of Roseburg.


The father of Anastasia Boylan, an 18-year-old student who was in class when Mercer came in shooting, said she survived by playing dead. 


“[Mercer] came in and there was gunfire immediately and he scattered the room. From what I understood from what she said was he shot the professor point blank, one shot killed him,” Stacey Boylan told CNN.


“Others had been injured and then this man had enough time – I don’t know how much time elapsed – he was able to stand there and start asking people one by one what their religion was.


“‘Are you a Christian?’ he would ask them, and ‘if you are a Christian then stand up’ and they would stand up. He’d say ‘because you are a Christian you’re going to see God in about one second’ and then he shot and killed them. And he kept going down the line doing this to people.”

































Image taken from the Myspace page of Chris Harper Mercer. Photograph: myspace.com/PA





Hannah Miles, a 19-year-old freshman who had been in her writing class when her teacher got a call from security saying the school was in lockdown, said she heard gunshots from a neighbouring classroom.


“There was a huge pop. It sounded like a ruler smacking against a chalkboard. Everyone jumped and we didn’t know what was going on. Then there was another one,” Miles told reporters. She was eventually evacuated by police from the locked classroom. 


The picture emerging of Mercer is of a killer who had an interest in mass shootings, having reportedly recently posted on a blog about a gunman who 
. He described
as a man who “wanted the world to see his actions” before adding: “Seems the more people you kill, the more you’re in the limelight.”


Mercer is thought to have been born in England before moving to the US as a young boy. Neighbours in Winchester said he lived in an apartment with his African-American mother, a nurse, and that he loved target shooting and seemed to carry around a black case with a gun inside.


His father, Ian Mercer, said he was “just as shocked as everybody” at his son’s actions. Speaking from his home in the US, he told reporters: “I’ve just been talking to the police and the FBI and all the details I have right now is what you guys [reporters] have already.


“I can’t answer any questions right now, I don’t want to answer any questions right now. It’s been a devastating day, devastating for me and my family. Shocked is all I can say.”


















 
 
 
 Sorry, your browser is unable to play this video. 





























US president Barack Obama gives a fiery speech on the Oregon shooting: ‘Somehow this has become routine’.







Speaking at the White House, Obama said: “We are not the only country on Earth that has people with mental illnesses or who want to do harm to other people. We are the only advanced country on earth that sees these kinds of mass shootings every few months.”


The shooting on the campus in the former timber town 180 miles south of Portland took place on the the first week of classes at the community college, which has about 3,000 students.












Topics
































































































































 








































 


































































































































 sections






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































›


















































© 2015 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.






































 



