Oregon Shooting: 'Heroic' Veteran Chris Mintz Was Shot 7 Times - NBC News 

Oregon Shooting: 'Heroic' Veteran Chris Mintz Was Shot 7 Times - NBC News








































































NBC News














More 










Ongoing:




































Search




















Primary Navigation




































More 




































Secondary Navigation










Sections












































Top Ongoing






TV














Featured






























Multimedia










More From NBC






















































 NBC News works best with JavaScript turned on
            
























 










 























                  Oregon College Shooting
                
















































Oct 2 2015, 8:27 am ET










Oregon Shooting: 'Heroic' Veteran Chris Mintz Was Shot 7 Times






by
 
Tracy Connor
 
and
 
F. Brinley Bruton 


















Share
























Print




























 




























Embed






 


3:08




autoplay 


autoplay 








Copy this code to your website or blog














 An Army veteran was shot seven times while trying to save other students during 
, according to his aunt. 


 Chris Mintz "tried to protect some people," his aunt Sheila Brown told NBC News in a telephone interview. "We were told he did heroic things to protect some people." 


 She said that Mintz was shot seven times and had been in surgery since the shooting that left 10 dead, including the gunman. 








 












Chris Mintz was wounded in a shooting at a college in Oregon.
 
Courtesy of Sheila Brown






 Originally from Randleman, North Carolina, Mintz served about 10 years in the Army. He had just started college, Brown said. He was shot in the back, abdomen and hands, and had two broken legs, she added. 


 "We're not sure how his legs got broken," she said. "He was on the wrestling team and and he's done cage-fighting so it does not surprise me that he would act heroically." 


 "It was a great, great shock ... We've all been sitting on pins and needles and praying very hard," Brown said, adding Mintz was "an extremely good guy." 


 
Related:
 








 




 On Friday morning, a Facebook page that appeared to belong to Mintz posted the following message: 


 "This is Chris's friend, Chris asked me to thank everyone for their support, he is grateful and keeping our community and all victims in his thoughts." 


 At least 10 people were killed and seven others injured when a gunman who demanded to know his victims' religions opened fire Thursday at Umpqua Community College. 


 The gunman was killed in a firefight with Douglas County sheriff's deputies, Sheriff John Hanlin said. Multiple law enforcement sources identified him to NBC News as 
, 26, but the sheriff wouldn't confirm that identity, saying he didn't want to "glorify" the man's actions. 


 








 






























Embed






 


3:16




autoplay 


autoplay 








Copy this code to your website or blog














 














Tracy Connor




























F. Brinley Bruton 


















Topics 




First Published
 
Oct 2 2015, 4:20 am ET
















 Next Story






























































 










































New


























© 2015 NBCnews.com









































































































