Paris train hero attended Oregon college hit by gun violence - NY Daily News  
 
Paris train hero attended Oregon college hit by gun violence - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paris train hero Alek Skarlatos attended Oregon college hit by gun violence, says 'I wish I could have been there today'
 
 BY  
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Thursday, October 1, 2015, 9:22 PM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adam Taylor/ABC
 
Alek Skarlatos is seen with his partner on 'Dancing With the Stars'
 
 
 
 
Anthony Sadler/AP
 
The 22-year-old was among several men who were hailed heroes for overpowering a gunman, pictured, on a Paris-bound train in August.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

	Before American hero Alek Skarlatos helped thwart a 
, the National Guardsman was a student at an Oregon community college which became the latest victim of gun violence on Thursday.



	He now says that he wishes he were home when it happened.



	"I was enrolled as a student at Umpqua Community College prior to my 2014 deployment to Afghanistan,"
magazine.







	"While I was fortunate enough to be in the right place at the right time in August aboard a train bound for Paris, I only wish that the same could be said for today. I wish that I could have been there today to assist."



	The 22-year-old was off participating in ABC's 
 when he got word that a lone gunman had torn through one of his former school's classrooms.



	When the shooting was over, 10 people were dead — including the shooter — and seven others wounded.







	"I praise the first responders who were on the ground today in Roseburg as they undoubtedly were integral in saving numerous lives and putting a stop to what could have been more than tragic than it is. My heart and prayers go out to this community, my community, right now," he said.


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS
 
Spencer Stone (2nd L), Anthony Sadler (R) and Alek Skarlatos are seen with President Obama in the White House's Oval Office where they were recognized for their heroism.
 
 
 
 
THOMAS SAMSON/AFP/Getty Images
 
Skarlatos is seen sitting with the U.S. ambassador to France and two other off-duty U.S. servicemen who were celebrated for their role in subduing a suspected gunman aboard a train in August.
 
 
 
 
PHILIPPE HUGUEN/AFP/Getty Images
 
Crime investigators look into the window of a train in Arras, northern France after a gunman opened fire on a train travelling from Amsterdam to Paris, injuring three people before being overpowered.
 
 
 
 
Mike Sullivan/AP
 
Police search students outside Umpqua Community College in Oregon.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



	In a twitter message to his thousands of followers, he wrote: "everyone send prayers out to ucc."



	"Heading home to roseburg tonight. Everyone send thoughts and prayers to the families," he added.


 
 
 
Twitter
 
Alek Skarlatos tweeted, "Heading home to Roseburg tonight. Everyone send thoughts and prayers to the families."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tags:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


News
 Video






 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 