 Roseburg, Oregon: a ‘small little town’ that has suffered big trauma before - The Washington Post  
 Roseburg, Oregon: a ‘small little town’ that has suffered big trauma before - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google Plus
Share via Email
More Options
 
Share on Whatsapp
Share on Pinterest
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Pinterest
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Book mark article
 
Read later list
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saved to Reading List
 
 Saved
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Too busy to read this now?
 
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
 
 
 
 
 
Sign in to your account to save this article.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roseburg, Oregon: a ‘small little town’ that has suffered big trauma before
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
Print Article
Comments
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
 
October 2 at 8:38 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jessica Vazquez, left, hugs her aunt Leticia Acaraz as they await word on Acaraz’s daughter at the local fairgrounds after a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., on Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (AP Photo/Ryan Kang)
 
 
Shock. Sadness. Anger. Disbelief.
 
On Thursday, the residents of Roseburg, Ore., went through all those emotions and then some. The city had just lost ten of its own — nine if you don’t count Chris Harper Mercer, the man suspected of carrying out the mass shooting at a local community college.
 
Hundreds gathered downtown to hold a candlelight vigil. Churches offered grief counseling. Prayers abounded.
 
If Roseburg seemed to be handling the horror better than expected, there is a reason: the city has suffered such tragedy before.
 
 
 
As President Obama angrily noted, mass shootings have become sickeningly “routine” in America. Thursday’s killings brought the number of mass shootings across the country to 294 in just 274 days.
 
 
But Roseburg, which one resident described as a “pretty small little town,” has seen more than its fair share of violence.
 
Although Thursday’s mass shooting at Umpqua Community College marks an incomparable loss for the city of 22,000, Roseburg has been the scene of several heinous crimes.
 
Until Thursday, the worst was a series of child rapes that occurred in the early 1990s.
 
In a strange contrast to Thursday’s shooting, it was the culprit who was tied to the community college in the earlier case.
 
Adam Lee Brown was a marine and a preacher before becoming a secretary at Umpqua. But the handsome family man’s seemingly upstanding life hid a dark secret.
 
“Uncle Adam,” as he was known,
 into his home and raped them, according to prosecutors. Even worse, Brown was HIV positive and deliberately tried to infect his young victims. He then threatened them knives, scissors, matches and Satan’s wrath if they spoke about the abuse.
 
In 1992, Brown was charged with 26 counts of sexual abuse and attempted murder for trying to infect the kids. Prosecutors later dropped the murder charges, however, after the children did not contract the virus. Brown, then 30, pleaded no contest to three counts of sodomy and one count of recklessly endangering another person in 1993. He served 13 years in prison and was released in 2005, only to return to prison in 2012 after assaulting and stabbing a 10-year-old boy in Portland.
 
The case terrified Roseburg, a conservative logging town known for its cowboy-style shooting competitions. At the time, AIDS was considered a big-city problem and local mental health counselors had to calm fears of gay people or the disease, the AP reported.
 
“Talk on the streets, meanwhile, vacillates between shudders of disgust and sputters of rage,” the wire service reported. “A speech class at Umpqua Community College discussed the issue, and the consensus was that Brown ‘ought to be shot in the head,’ said student Ralph Snyder.”
 
In the years since, Roseburg and the surrounding area has suffered other tragedies, although on a lesser scale.
 
In 1996, a bizarre kidnapping turned highway chase ended near Roseburg. One day in early October, petty criminal Lance Sterling Alexander knocked on a random door and stole 7-year-old Kristina Jacobson from her home. He led police on an hours-long chase before flipping his car near Roseburg. After threatening to kill Jacobson if his demands weren’t met, a police sniper fatally shot Alexander in the head, according to 
.
 
“Kristina said she used her Bambi book to smash a window and get away from the car after the man was killed, because she didn’t want the kidnapper’s blood to get on her sun dress,” 
 Jacobson was brought to a Roseburg hospital to recover.
 
Roseburg has experienced other serious crimes. In 1980, three suspects, including one suspected killer, broke out of the local jail. A year later, Roseburg and surrounding cities were plagued by a serial robber who killed at least three people. In 1983, a man wanted for murder killed himself on his wife’s grave. The next year, a woman living near Roseburg tried to kill her four children with poison.
 
And in 2006, there was a near-fatal school shooting.
 
 a 14-year-old freshman, approached 15-year-old sophomore Joseph Monti from behind after school and shot him four times in the back, according to the Associated Press. The feud allegedly was fueled by animosity over girls. When police caught up to Leodoro in a restaurant parking lot, he put a gun to his head and threatened to kill himself before surrendering.
 
Leodoro was obsessed with guns and ammunition. He shot Monti with hollow-point bullets designed to cause maximum impact, the AP reported. Monti barely survived, later showing off his scars in court. A judge sentenced Leodoro to a decade in prison.
 
The 2006 school shooting was the first in the state since 1998, according to the 
. It spurred institutions in the area, including Umpqua Community College, to draw up plans for how to handle and prevent active shooter scenarios.
 
It’s unclear if lessons learned from first school shooting helped limit the toll in the second.
 
The city has changed subtly over the years, residents say. Today, Roseburg is 91 percent white, 5.5 percent Hispanic and 1.7 percent Native American, according to U.S. Census figures, with a high school graduation rate above the national average. But its poverty rate (19.6 percent) is higher than the national average (14.8). The city is home to nearly 3,000 veterans, according to Census figures, as well as a large VA facility.
 
A recent decline in the lumber industry has sent young people back to school, increasing attendance at UCC, according to Judith McLaughlin.
 
McLaughlin, 65, lives in the last apartment in the same complex where Mercer lived. She said she never met Mercer and only learned of him from a reporter, who told her to look out the window at the cop cars and television vans outside.
 
“It was kind of a shock,” McLaughlin told The Washington Post. She said she grew up in Detroit and lived through the riots of 1964 before moving to California and then Oregon.
 
“I have never felt as safe as when I lived here in Roseburg,” she said, describing the community as “very tight knit.”
 
“It’s a pretty small little town,” said Pamela Riggle, another neighbor. “Most people don’t know where it is.”
 
“It’s surreal to hear that it happened in your home town and then get home from work and there are cops and reporters at your door,” she added. “It’s hard to believe that the guy lived next door.”
 
Like previous high-profile crimes, the mass shooting has punctured the city’s sense of safety.
 
“There was this sense of, ‘It can’t happen in my little home town,'” McLaughlin said. “But we were wrong.”
 
Roseburg has overcome tragedy in the past, albeit nothing quite like the community college shootings. Now it will have to draw on that unwelcome experience once again.
 
 
 
 
Michael E. Miller is a foreign affairs reporter for The Washington Post. He writes for the Morning Mix news blog. Tweet him: @MikeMillerDC
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
 | 
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
✕
 
Thank you for signing up
 
You'll receive e-mail when new stories are published in this series.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Joyful, Illiterate Kindergartners of Finland
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 40 Lucky Children, an Escape From Congo's Diamond Mines
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How Oregon's rollout of legal marijuana is different (+video)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amazon Will Stop Selling Google and Apple Streaming Devices at the End of the Month
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marco Rubio: Putin is a 'gangster' and a 'thug' — and here's how I'd take him on
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solar Panels Are About To Get Way, Way Better
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I'm a librarian who banned a book. Here's why.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sieren's China: No more fiddling, more slog
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 things Planned Parenthood's president admitted under oath
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ted Cruz is toast: It's not just that he won't be president -- his days in the Senate are numbered, too
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DARPA is testing implanting chips in soldiers' brains
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to Protect Yourself From Peeple, the ‘Yelp for People' App
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Is it safe to cook with hot tap water?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Election 2016 Is 'Feeling The Bern'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five Things We Learned from the Ravens 23-20 win over the Pittsburgh Steelers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paige: Memories of Mom keep me company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gunman in Oregon college shooting identified
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Germany: Hamburg can now seize commercial property to accommodate migrants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Next Story
Sarah Larimer
 · 
2 hours ago
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
 and 
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 