 At Umpqua Community College, striving lives cut short - The Washington Post  
 At Umpqua Community College, striving lives cut short - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google Plus
Share via Email
More Options
 
Share on Whatsapp
Share on Pinterest
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Pinterest
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Book mark article
 
Read later list
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saved to Reading List
 
 Saved
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Too busy to read this now?
 
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
 
 
 
 
 
Sign in to your account to save this article.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At Umpqua Community College, striving lives cut short
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
Print Article
Comments
0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
 
October 2 at 6:46 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A police car is parked on a road near Umpqua Community College in Roseberg, Ore., on October 1, 2015. (Cengiz Yar Jr./AFP/Getty Images)
 
 
The students in the classroom on which Chris Harper Mercer allegedly focused his attack were trying to improve their writing skills.
 
Umpqua Community College’s online course catalog says of Writing 115: “Special emphasis will be placed on sentence construction, grammar, usage, spelling, vocabulary, and paragraph and essay development.” It’s basic stuff and exactly what these students needed to get ahead in the world.
 
It’s not known which of these fundamentals they were tackling yesterday morning when a bullet came through the window.
 
Kortney Moore, a student in that ill-fated class, told the 
 that she watched her teacher get shot in the head.
 
Nothing like this should have happened at Umpqua, an ungated circular plot in pastoral Roseburg, Ore., not far from wine country. The school has a “no-guns-on-campus policy,” interim college president Rita Calvin 
. They employ a single security guard, former president Joe Olson told 
, but even this officer is unarmed.
 
Jodi Sonka, a student, told CNN that her professor thought the campus was going through an active shooter drill.
 
“He was like, ‘Oh, this never happens,'” she said.
 
A possible situation like this one had been the subject of a great debate last year on campus. If the security staff wasn’t armed, how would they protect students in case of a shooting?
 
[
]
 
At Umpqua, the average age is 38 years old. The 2,000 students are, for the most part, adults. Some of them are veterans. Some of them go on to four-year colleges. Some don’t.
 
Along with its Associate of Arts, Associate of Science and Associate of General Studies degrees, the school offers a range of vocational majors: from Automotive Technology to Dental Assistant, Early Childhood Education to Welding.
 
These practical career paths make sense at a school and among a student body that have seen its share of financial challenges.
 
Since 2013, Umpqua has suffered a student loan default rate greater than 30 percent, 
 earlier this week. If the rate isn’t reduced in the next year, the school faces possible expulsion from the U.S. Department of Education’s federal student loan program.
 
The college is also facing declining enrollment, and budgetary problems that as its president Joe Olson said in his annual address, “reflects imagination and reality.”
 
Community colleges are no stranger to this kind of threat. A big part of their purpose is to serve as gateways to jobs and higher education for older students who often can’t afford four-year institutions from the start.
 
“They are the poorest. They are the unprepared,” 
 Mary Spilde, president of Lane Community College, another Oregon institution with high student loan default rates.
 
In 
 report, Klamath Community College President Roberto Gutierrez chimed in, “For many of these students, community college is the last stop to change their lives.”
 
In rural Oregon, where the recession hit particularly hard, these schools offer students a window into better prospects. Umpqua opened for its first courses in 1961 in rented facilities in Roseburg. The tuition was $11 per credit. The 98 acres that allowed it to build a real campus in what had been a pasture were donated in 1965. 
 
This May, Umpqua students held a clothing drive to provide professional clothing for job interviews to classmates who can’t afford it.
 
“First impressions are important for job interviews, and they can be the difference between getting the job or not getting the job,” Kalee Paxton, a second year Natural Resource major told the school newspaper, 
 
In June, a French class traveled to Paris, Versailles and the catacombs.
 
But those, unlike Thursday’s shooting, never made the news.
 
A C.S. Lewis quote posted to the college’s 
 on Monday, the first day of school, now reads like an eerie foreboding: “There are far, far better things ahead than any we leave behind.”
 
 
Yanan Wang is a reporter on the Morning Mix team.
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
 | 
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
✕
 
Thank you for signing up
 
You'll receive e-mail when new stories are published in this series.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Joyful, Illiterate Kindergartners of Finland
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 40 Lucky Children, an Escape From Congo's Diamond Mines
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That asteroid might have needed help wiping out the dinosaurs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amazon Will Stop Selling Google and Apple Streaming Devices at the End of the Month
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marco Rubio: Putin is a 'gangster' and a 'thug' — and here's how I'd take him on
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solar Panels Are About To Get Way, Way Better
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I'm a librarian who banned a book. Here's why.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sieren's China: No more fiddling, more slog
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 things Planned Parenthood's president admitted under oath
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ted Cruz is toast: It's not just that he won't be president -- his days in the Senate are numbered, too
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DARPA is testing implanting chips in soldiers' brains
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to Protect Yourself From Peeple, the ‘Yelp for People' App
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Is it safe to cook with hot tap water?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Election 2016 Is 'Feeling The Bern'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five Things We Learned from the Ravens 23-20 win over the Pittsburgh Steelers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paige: Memories of Mom keep me company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gunman in Oregon college shooting identified
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Germany: Hamburg can now seize commercial property to accommodate migrants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Next Story
Fred Barbash
 · 
5 hours ago
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
 and 
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 