'This Has Become Routine': Obama Calls For Common Sense Gun Laws  | NBC Southern California 

'This Has Become Routine': Obama Calls For Common Sense Gun Laws  | NBC Southern California






























































Blogs


































Blogs






































































 
 
 
 
 










 | 
 | 










 












































 




















































































'This Has Become Routine': Obama Calls For Common Sense Gun Laws


Presidential candidates also react to deadly mass shooting at Oregon community college.


By

                          


 and                                                                             










 
 | 
 
Email


 | 


 Print 




























































































Receive the latest politics  updates in your inbox
















 | 




























'This Has Become Routine': Obama Calls For...










Link


Embed


Email












Copy


Close


Link to this video




http://www.nbclosangeles.com/video/#!/news/politics/'This-Has-Become-Routine':-Obama-Calls-For-Common-Sense-Gun-Laws/330340621








Copy


Close


Embed this video




















More videos (1 of 9)










«


»














President Barack Obama spoke passionately and registered frustration Thursday night after a gunman opened fire on a community college campus in Oregon. Watch his remarks here. (Published Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015)




President Barack Obama spoke passionately and registered frustration Thursday night after a gunman opened fire on a community college campus in Oregon.


The shooter, Chris Harper Mercer, 26, who is now dead, killed nine people at the community college in Roseburg and wounded about seven others.




"Somehow this has become routine," Obama said. "My response here, at this podium, is routine. We’ve become numb to this. It cannot be this easy for someone who wants to inflict pain on someone else to get their hands on guns.”












Shooting at Oregon Community College






The president called upon Congress to implement what he called common sense gun control laws. He noted that critics will say that he had "politicized" the issue.


"This is something we should politicize— it is relevant to our common life together," he said.


Updated


Obama compared the United States to other advanced countries, saying that their gun policies were changed after only "one mass shooting." States with more gun control laws have less gun violence, he said.


The president also said that the United States was not the only country with people with mental illness but that it was the only developed country that sees shootings like this "every month."




Obama added that "our thoughts and prayers are not enough."


Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee criticized Obama in a statement on Facebook, saying that his "passion is grossly misplaced into destroying the Second Amendment" and that gun violence is "the fault of evil people doing evil things."




"With few facts, Obama is quick to admittedly politicize this tragedy to advance his liberal, anti-gun agenda," Huckabee wrote. "For this president to make a political pronouncement is at best premature and at worst ignorantly inflammatory."


 








We hardly know any of the details about this horrific tragedy - What kind of gun was used? How did the shooter obtain...

Posted by 
 on 




Earlier Thursday, other presidential candidates and politicians tweeted their thoughts and prayers for 
.


Republicans Donald Trump, Jeb Bush, Lindsey Graham and John Kasich and Democrats Martin O’Malley and Bernie Sanders were among those sending condolences.




Praying for Umpqua Community College, the victims, and families impacted by this senseless tragedy.

— Jeb Bush (@JebBush) 
 




My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families of this terrible tragedy at Umpqua Community College.

— Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) 
 




Happened to get a call from Donald Trump a moment ago. Asked him about his thoughts on the Oregon shooting. Quote: 

— Philip Bump (@pbump) 
 




It's with a heavy heart that we all pray for those killed or injured in Oregon today. 

— George E. Pataki (@GovernorPataki) 
 








Another senseless tragedy with more innocent people killed. Our hearts go out to the families. -B

— Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) 
 




My heart is with those who lost so much today in Oregon. -O’M

— Martin O'Malley (@MartinOMalley) 
 


Many of the initial messages streered away from the politics of gun control but not all, including Rep. Xavier Becerra, a Democrat from California and chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, who challenged Republicans over gun safety.




When is enough, enough for Congressional Republicans blocking sensible 
 laws?! 
 

— Xavier Becerra (@RepBecerra) 
 


Here is additional reaction from public figures. 




Oregonians everywhere want Roseburg to know we're praying for them.

— Ron Wyden (@RonWyden) 
 
 


Horrific news from Umpqua Community College in Roseburg. My heart and prayers are with the victims and their families.

— Senator Jeff Merkley (@SenJeffMerkley) 
 




Prayers for the victims, families, students, & faculty at Umpqua Community College, & the community of Roseburg, Oregon.

— Speaker John Boehner (@SpeakerBoehner) 
 




Today we send thoughts & prayers to 
 victims & families. Tmrw we must find a way - regardless of politics - to end the violence.

— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) 
 




On a plane and learning about the heinous shooting in Oregon. A community’s heart has been tested but will not be broken. 

— Gabrielle Giffords (@GabbyGiffords) 
 




Now Oregon. We weep again as a nation. Is the answer to our gun violence epidemic to do nothing? Again? Come on America! We solve problems

— Eric Holder (@EricHolder) 
 


Published at 1:26 PM PDT on Oct 1, 2015




























 
 | 
 
Email


 | 


Print


















 























































































































































































          © 2015 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved.
        









































