Oregon College Shooting - NBC News 

Oregon College Shooting - NBC News








































































NBC News














More 










Ongoing:




































Search




















Primary Navigation




































More 




































Secondary Navigation










Sections












































Top Ongoing


















TV














Featured






























Multimedia










More From NBC






















































 NBC News works best with JavaScript turned on
            
























 










 





























                          Oregon College Shooting
                        










Share






































Storyline



                      Full coverage of the deadly campus shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon.
                    


















Storyline Chronology
















22 minutes




 









                                      Oregon Shooting: Student Witness Recalls 'Panic' on Campus
                                    


































Two students in the classroom next to where the Oregon gunman opened fire said they thought the initial gunshot was a book or table that fell.
















28 minutes














When gunfire rang out Thursday afternoon, the medical community in the small town of Roseburg, Oregon, sprang into action.


















3 hours














"If you want to come on the campus and you want to shoot five people, you are going to do that before our security would arrive," he told the newspaper.


















32 minutes














Former acquaintances and social-media postings have begun to paint the picture of Christopher Harper Mercer as a withdrawn young man.


















4 hours














Doctors were operating on a young victim of the Oregon community college shooting rampage after a bullet lodged near her spine, her mother told NBC News.


















2 hours














The sheriff overseeing the investigation of an Oregon college shooting has been vocal in opposing state and federal gun-control legislation.


















2 hours














An Army veteran was shot seven times while trying to save other students during the deadly Oregon community college rampage, according to his aunt.


















11 hours














Obama compared the efforts spent to combat terrorism with what he called Congress' refusal to allow steps that could reduce gun deaths.


















15 hours














Complete remarks by President Barack Obama after at least 10 people were killed at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon.


















16 hours














Visibly angry at least 10 people were killed at an Oregon college, the president declared: "Thoughts and prayers are not enough."


















17 hours














Thursday's mass shooting on a college campus in Oregon came as the state began tightening restrictions on gun purchases.


















2 hours








Gallery








At least 10 people were killed after a gunman opened fire on the campus of Umpqua Community College in Oregon.


















17 hours














A student at Umpqua Community College heard what sounded "like a car backfiring" before she was told the campus was on lockdown.


















15 hours














Here are some of the deadliest mass shootings that have happened at schools and other locations across the U.S. in recent years.


















37 minutes














At least 10 people were killed and seven others were injured when a gunman opened fire Thursday on a campus in southwest Oregon.


















2 hours














This week's campus shooting renewed the gravest concern a parent has when sending their kid to school. Stay calm by staying informed.


















an hour














The 1996 Port Arthur massacre shook Australia to its core, and triggered gun reforms that research suggest has been effective in reducing gun crime.




































Share











































              Ongoing Storylines 
















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































New


























© 2015 NBCnews.com



























































































