Oregon Shooter Presented Horrifying Question to Victims Before Opening Fire, Survivors Say | TheBlaze.com 

Oregon Shooter Presented Horrifying Question to Victims Before Opening Fire, Survivors Say | TheBlaze.com






















































































































































































Hot Topics:


 















                            1.6M                        











                            429K                        











                            31.8K                        











                            15.8K                        










































 


Oregon Shooter Presented Horrifying Question to Victims Before Opening Fire, Survivors Say











							Oct. 1, 2015 9:01pm						


















13.9K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend










































 




The shooter who opened fire at an Oregon community college Thursday asked his victims to state their religion before he opened fire, witnesses said.


“The shooter was lining people up and asking if they were christian,” tweeted Bodhi Looney, who said her grandmother was in the room as the shooting unfolded. “If they said yes, they were shot in the head. If they said no, or didn’t answer, they were shot in the legs.”




 


— Bodhi (@BodhiLooney) 




That account was corroborated by others. 


18-year-old student Kortney Moore 
 that the shooter asked individuals to stand up and state their religion before he opened fire.


Stacy Boylan, the father of a wounded student, offered details his daughter provided to him before heading into spinal surgery. 




“He shot the professor, point blank, one shot, killed him — took him right out of it,”  he told CNN. “And then, this man, had enough time, I don’t know how much time elapsed before he was able to stand there and start asking people one by one what their religion was. ‘Are you a Christian?’ he would ask them. And if you’re a Christian, stand up.”


“And they would stand up and he said, ‘Good, because you’re a Christian, you’re going to see God in just about one second,’” he continued, relaying his daughter’s account. “And then he shot and killed them.”


Members of law enforcement have a meeting at the local fairgrounds after a deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College, in Roseburg, Ore., Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (AP Photo/Ryan Kang)


Another student, identified as Colby, 
 he heard a similar account.


“I heard he was lining people up and asking if they were Christians,” he said. “If they answered no, then they got shot in the leg. That’s just what I heard, I’m not sure.”


As of Thursday evening, authorities had not commented on what the suspect’s motive might have been. Chilling online messages posted to an Internet forum seemingly warned of the massacre the night before.


The incident left 
 and seven wounded.


This story has been updated with more information. 


—


Follow the author of this story on Twitter and Facebook:
 








 








13.9K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend














































Related:
 






Comments 
(
362
)




















 






















 


 


 


 


 






 


 


 


 


 




























 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 




 






 




 




 




























Sections


 


Hot Topics




 




More from TheBlaze


 


About


 








Thanks for the tip!


 Submitting your tip... please wait!






Have a Tip?


There was a problem submitting your tip.
Please try again later.


Give us a Scoop!


Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.






















All information © 2015 TheBlaze Inc






































































































You must be logged in to do that


































Sign In


Cancel










Displayed publicly on comments
Once chosen, this cannot be changed






































Email subscriptions:




FireWire from TheBlaze




News and offers from Glenn Beck brands and sponsors






I agree to the 








Sign Up


Cancel







