At Least 10 Dead in Oregon Community College Shooting | TheBlaze.com 

At Least 10 Dead in Oregon Community College Shooting | TheBlaze.com






















































































































































































Hot Topics:


 















                            1.6M                        











                            429K                        











                            31.8K                        











                            15.8K                        










































 


At Least 10 Dead in Oregon Community College Shooting











							Oct. 1, 2015 2:23pm						


















3.9K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend










































 




UPDATE 8:00 p.m. ET:
 Sheriff John Hanlin said the “most accurate” information available pointed to 10 fatalities, not 13 as previously stated by the Oregon attorney general.


Sheriff John Hanlin gives update on Oregon shooting:
 
- 10 fatalities confirmed
- 7 additional injuries 


— TheBlazeNOW (@TheBlazeNOW) 






—


A gunman opened fire at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, on Thursday, killing at least 13 people, Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum said. State police Lt. Bill Fugate told KATU-TV that at least 20 others were hurt.


NR Today


The college, located about 175 miles south of Portland, was on lockdown on Thursday as officers responded to the “active shooter” situation, KOIN-TV reported. The college is a “gun-free” campus.


Former UCC President Joe Olson, who retired in June after four years, said the school had no formal security staff, just one unarmed security officer on a shift.


CNN’s Jake Tapper reported at around 2:30 p.m. ET that the situation was no longer an “active shooting” and a suspect was in custody, citing Douglas County Commissioner Chris Boice.


A sheriff’s spokeswoman later confirmed there was “no more threat” from the shooting at the college. She would not say whether the male shooting suspect was apprehended or dead.


Douglas County Commissioner Chris Boice told CNN that situation at Umpqua Community College is NO LONGER an active shooting situation


— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) 




Boice: shooter is in custody, but was not sure if the shooter was injured; of the 20 wounded, at least one female was shot in chest


— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) 


A photographer for the Roseburg News-Review newspaper said he saw people being loaded into multiple ambulances and taken to the local hospital.


Umpqua Community College has about 3,000 students. Its website was down Thursday, and a phone message left at the school wasn’t immediately returned.


A spokeswoman for the Oregon department that oversees community colleges in the state said she had not received any detailed information about the shooting.


“It’s extremely concerning and sad,” said Endi Hartigan, spokeswoman for the Oregon Higher Education Coordinating Commission.


The rural town of Roseburg lies west of the Cascade Mountains. The timber industry has struggled there, and authorities in recent years have tried to promote the area as a tourist destination for wine growing and outdoor activities.


The Associated Press contributed to this report.

—












 








3.9K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend














































Related:
,
 






Comments 
(
308
)




















 






















 


 


 


 


 






 


 


 


 


 




























 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 




 






 




 




 




























Sections


 


Hot Topics




 




More from TheBlaze


 


About


 








Thanks for the tip!


 Submitting your tip... please wait!






Have a Tip?


There was a problem submitting your tip.
Please try again later.


Give us a Scoop!


Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.






















All information © 2015 TheBlaze Inc






































































































You must be logged in to do that


































Sign In


Cancel










Displayed publicly on comments
Once chosen, this cannot be changed






































Email subscriptions:




FireWire from TheBlaze




News and offers from Glenn Beck brands and sponsors






I agree to the 








Sign Up


Cancel







