There Was ‘No Way’ This Army Vet ‘Was Going to Stand Around and Watch’ as the Gunman Went on a Rampage Through Umpqua Community College | Video | TheBlaze.com 

There Was ‘No Way’ This Army Vet ‘Was Going to Stand Around and Watch’ as the Gunman Went on a Rampage Through Umpqua Community College | Video | TheBlaze.com






















































































































































































Hot Topics:


 















                            1.6M                        











                            429K                        











                            31.8K                        











                            15.8K                        










































 


There Was ‘No Way’ This Army Vet ‘Was Going to Stand Around and Watch’ as the Gunman Went on a Rampage Through Umpqua Community College











							Oct. 2, 2015 8:29am						


















2.3K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend










































 




At 12:51 a.m. on Oct. 1, Chris Mintz 
 a happy birthday message on Facebook for his son. 


Little did he know that just hours before 
 on a more 
obscure
 social media forum, warning people not to go to school that day. 
Little did he know that he would end up in a hospital on his son’s birthday with several gunshot wounds, being hailed a hero.




Family speaking to several different media outlets have said Mintz, an Army veteran, tried to protect other people at Umpqua Community College when a gunman identified as 
 opened fire and killed at least nine people. Mercer also died following a shootout with police.


Chris Mintz, originally from North Carolina, was attending his second year of community college in Oregon and was among those shot in Thursday’s tragedy. (Image source: WGPH-TV)


“We were told he did heroic things to protect some people,” Sheila Brown, Chris Mintz’s aunt, 
.


“I was told he went after the shooter,” his cousin, Derek Bourgeois, 
. “There was no way he was going to stand around and watch something this horrific happen.”


Wanda Mintz, his aunt, 
 three times trying to block the gunman from entering a classroom.


“[He] hits the floor, looks up at gunman and says ‘It’s my son’s birthday today,’ gets shot two more times,’” Wanda Mintz told the news station.


Family say Chris Mintz tried to protect others from the shooter. Thursday was his son’s birthday. (Image source: WGPH-TV)


WGPH reported that Chris Mintz, originally from North Carolina, was in Oregon to raise his son and noted that he had been in the military for at least 10 years. Bourgeois 
 they both were in the Army and both had been deployed before.
 


As for his health going forward, the news station reported that both of Chris Mintz’s legs are broken but no vital organs were hit. NBC 
 that Brown said they don’t know how his legs were broken, but she noted that “he was on the wrestling team and and he’s done cage-fighting so it does not surprise me that he would act heroically.”


Ariana Earnhardt, another cousin, 
 how to walk again “he walked away with his life and that’s more than so many other people did.”


Watch the news station’s report:




In a post to his Facebook page Friday morning, someone identifying himself as a friend of Chris Mintz wrote that he “asked me to thank everyone for their support, he is grateful and keeping our community and all victims in his thoughts.”


Thursday’s massacre is considered the worst mass shooting in recent Oregon history. Police are not saying whether they know of any motive yet.


“It’s been a terrible day,” said Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin, who wouldn’t name the shooter during a news conference so as not to “give him the credit he probably sought prior to this horrific and cowardly act.”


—


The Associated Press contributed to this report.




Other Must-Read Stories


















2.3K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend














































Related:
,
,
 






Comments 
(
27
)




















 






















 


 


 


 


 






 


 


 


 


 




























 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 




 






 




 




 




























Sections


 


Hot Topics




 




More from TheBlaze


 


About


 








Thanks for the tip!


 Submitting your tip... please wait!






Have a Tip?


There was a problem submitting your tip.
Please try again later.


Give us a Scoop!


Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.






















All information © 2015 TheBlaze Inc






































































































You must be logged in to do that


































Sign In


Cancel










Displayed publicly on comments
Once chosen, this cannot be changed






































Email subscriptions:




FireWire from TheBlaze




News and offers from Glenn Beck brands and sponsors






I agree to the 








Sign Up


Cancel







