Chris Mintz was shot as he charged the Umpqua Community College shooter in Oregon | Daily Mail Online 

Chris Mintz was shot as he charged the Umpqua Community College shooter in Oregon | Daily Mail Online


































































 






































 


 






















































































































































































































 











































































	16k
      


shares






























































































































































































'He wasn't going to stand and watch something horrific happen': The hero Army veteran who was shot seven times as he 'charged at Oregon college shooter'
Chris Mintz, 30, was taken to hospital following the college shooting
 
Started the day by wishing his son, six, 'Happy Birthday' on Facebook
He then headed to classes at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg
His cousin Derek Bourgeois told DailyMail.com he charged at the shooter
Bourgeois said he and Mintz joined the Army together after high school 
By








Published:

  00:38 EST, 2 October 2015


 | 


Updated:

  09:00 EST, 2 October 2015











































16k


shares










A heroic student charged at the Oregon college shooter and was shot seven times as he tried to save his classmates, his family said.
Army veteran Chris Mintz, 30, was taken to hospital following the massacre at Umpqua Community College on Thursday morning.
His cousin Derek Bourgeois told DailyMail.com that Mintz faced Chris Harper-Mercer, 26, who killed at least 10 people at the school in Roseburg.
Scroll down for video
 
 


 
Army veteran Chris Mintz (pictured in the hospital, recovering) was shot seven times as he charged at the Oregon college shooter, his cousin told DailyMail.com
 


 


‘There was no way he was going to stand around and watch something this horrific happen,' Mintz' (pictured) cousin said 
‘I was told he went after the shooter,’ Bourgeois told DailyMail.com.
‘There was no way he was going to stand around and watch something this horrific happen.’
Bourgeois, who lives in North Carolina, said no vital organs were hit when Mintz was shot multiple times, but he is expected to recover after spending most of Thursday in surgery. 
According to his family, both of his legs are broken and he will have to learn to walk again.
Mintz's aunt Sheila Brown told
 that 'he tried to protect some people'.
'We were told he did heroic things to protect some people,' she said.
'He was on the wrestling team and and he's done cage-fighting so it does not surprise me that he would act heroically.' 
Mintz, originally from Randleman, North Carolina, served 10 yeras in the Army and had just recently started college, his aunt said. 
 


 


Mintz pictured above with his son in a picture posted to Facebook. 'Another throwback of my [partner and crime] and I,' Mintz captioned the pictured on the right
 
 


 
Chris Mintz with retired-MMA fighter Chael Sonnen. Mintz's Facebook is full of fitness-related posts 
Bourgeois said he and Mintz had joined the Army together after graduating high school. Bourgeois stationed in Fort Bragg in North Carolina while his cousin was sent to Fort Lewis in Washington.
After getting out of the Army, Bourgeois said his cousin began cage-fighting, but was working at an YMCA while he enrolled at the community college in Roseburg with the goal of becoming a fitness coach when he left. 














 
 


 
Multiple ambulances are pictured on the scene with at least one patient on a gurney at the Roseburg campus 
 
 


 
Emotions were running high following the shooting as family members awaited news 
 
 


 
Hannah Miles, center, is reunited with her sister Hailey, left, and father Gary Miles, right, after the shooting














The victim's aunt Wanda told 
: 'He could have very easily died. I really think that if he wasn't such a strong, young guy, he may have died.' 
According to his family, he was in the military for ten years and moved to Oregon to help raise his son. 
And he had started the day yesterday by wishing his six-year-old son Tyrik ‘happy birthday’ on Facebook before headed to the community college where things took a tragic turn.






RELATED ARTICLES




















































Share this article


Share


16k
 shares








According to the 
, he was heard saying ‘It’s my son’s birthday’ as he lay wounded at the school. 
In a post on Facebook last month, Mintz reflected on his life, saying ‘memories are what makes life worth living’.
He wrote: ‘It’s amazing to sit back and reflect on life, decisions made or avoided, places I’ve been and the people I’ve met on my journey.
‘Why waste time wondering when I can enjoy my time experiencing life. Memories are what makes life worth living, even the bad ones bring you the ability to love the good ones.
‘So if you’re lucky, you’ll find the stars in your life and make a lifetime of one of a kind memories.’ 
 
 


 
Gunman Chris Harper-Mercer opened fire at Umpqua Community College in Oregon, pictured above
























Read more:




















Share or comment on this article


















































16k
shares




































MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS
















 






















































































































































































MOST READ NEWS




















 




























Comments (
703
)



                                	Share what you think
                                
































































The comments below have not been moderated.

















                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    










Add your comment


















Enter your comment




By posting your comment you agree to our 
.




Submit Comment


Clear












Who is this week's top commenter?


















More top stories
























Bing






Site


Web






Enter search term:


Search




















































































 


 


Femail Today







          Is Monaco's Beatrice Borromeo Casiraghi the most stylish royal in the world? As she puts on a chic display at fashion week, how the icon has usurped Kate's crown
          







          Going nude! Kendall Jenner shows off her model figure in skintight trousers as she coordinates with Lily Donaldson at Balmain's starry PFW after party
          







          Tim Tebow makes quite the splash as he displays his sculpted six pack in neon trunks
          







          Train hero Alek Skarlatos is also a student at mass shooting college and ran out of DWTS rehearsals in panic to check his friends were OK
          







          PICTURED: Jim Carrey 'meets with sister of late ex-girlfriend Cathriona White' at the house where her body was found in a suspected suicide
          

















          Gigi Hadid displays plenty of cleavage in a nude tie-up dress as she hits the Paris Fashion Week party scene with doting boyfriend Joe Jonas
          







          Gisele Bundchen is pictured leaving Chanel offices in Seveties-style flared jeans clutching an enormous bunch of flowers 
          







          Hailey Baldwin shows off her incredible figure in bronze bodycon dress as she attends Balmain afterparty at PFW
          







          Amal and the bunion brigade: Mrs Clooney is not the only star with tootsie trouble... So is there a cure for this bugbear?
          







          That's one way to promote a book! Grace Jones, 67, flashes her breasts at the cameras as she turns up TWO hours late for signing
          













          Justin Bieber smokes a suspicious looking cigarette on stage after swigging from a bottle of cognac during sloppy impromptu New Zealand performance
          







          'You need to pass that s*** Leo': Miley Cyrus calls out DiCaprio on The Tonight Show for failing to share the 'vape' at SNL after party
          







          Beefcake Patrick Schwarzenegger reveals a much slimmer frame after 15lbs weight loss on set of Scream Queens
          







          Kourtney Kardashian applies generous amounts of make-up and keeps a stiff upper lip over ex Scott Disick and his mystery blonde
          







          Fresh-faced 'Angel' Elsa Hosk brightens the drizzly day in a green trench coat over a plaid jumpsuit while strolling through NYC
          







          All white! Fashion's darling Cressida Bonas shows off her toned legs in chic dress as she arrives for Dior show in Paris 
          







          Alessandra Ambrosio wows in a white racy mini-dress as she smooches Balmain's creative director Olivier Rousteing at PFW afterparty
          







          'It made me want a boob job': Kim Kardashian reveals her envy at seeing Caitlyn Jenner's 'assets' for the first time
          







          Rachel Weisz showcases her English-rose beauty in a pretty feminine shoot as she discusses sexism in Hollywood
          







          Chest a glimpse! Bella Hadid goes braless in a racy sheer-paneled LBD at Balmain afterparty in Paris
          













          Cindy Crawford cuts a tailored figure in leather trousers and a blazer at signing... following star-studded book launch party
          







          Smoking hot! Zac Efron goes shirtless as he continues to flaunt his sculpted torso and jumps over a fire pit on Neighbors 2 set
          







          Wheely fun! Ed O'Neill goes shirtless as he cruises through LA on his trusty bicycle
          







          Sharon Stone, 57, defies the years in a wet look top and cropped flared trousers as she is honored for her AIDS activism
          







          'I finally accept myself the way I am': Plus-size model who suffered from an eating disorder and body dysmorphia on how she found the courage to pose NUDE 
          







          Game on! Kylie Jenner grabs attention in a very quirky and sporty $400 designer Adidas outfit
          







          Sorry Tyga, I've got an empire to run! Kylie Jenner is distracted by her cell phone during dinner date in Calabasas
          







          These boots are made for walking! Kelly Bensimon puts on a sexy display while flashing her supermodel legs in thigh-highs 
          







          Geena Davis, 59, flashes her legs in a black wrap-around dress with thigh-high split as she attends San Diego Film Festival
          







          Bloomin' marvelous! Helen Mirren, 70, embraces flower power as she attends Italian film screening of Woman In Gold
          







          FIRST LOOK: Helen Mirren goes retro as Hedda Hopper in newly-released film poster for forthcoming movie Trumbo
          







          Hailee Steinfeld keeps it edgy in mesh top and thigh-high leather boots as she promotes new single on British TV
          







          Who knew they were friends? LaToya Jackson hugs Real Housewives' Taylor Armstrong after running into her at lunch
          







          Vicki Gunvalson's ex Brooks Ayers threatens to sue RHOC star Meghan King Edmonds for defamation as he slams 'manufactured' cancer mystery
          







          Queen Letizia shows her maternal side as she cradles a newborn baby at Red Cross fundraising event
          







          Time with dad! Gavin Rossdale spends the day with his three sons after moving into bachelor pad since split with Gwen Stefani
          







          'If you have a pee you can hear it': Kata Mara reveals 'torture' of hearing EVERYTHING Matt Damon was doing while wearing space suits for The Martian
          







          The couple that works out together! Matt Damon looks buff as he leaves gym with wife Luciana Barroso 
          







          Like father, like daughter? Offspring of Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and Steven Spielberg compete at high-society horse-riding event in Los Angeles 
          







          'Hello sugar!' Reese Witherspoon carries a cheeky slogan bag as she dresses up jeans with very sexy red heels ahead of workout 
          







          Lena Dunham sends a clear message in a womb-motif sweater as she shows her support to Planned Parenthood conference following controversy
          







          'I feel intimidated by marriage': Lena Dunham says she's not ready to wed beau Jack Antonoff despite saying they'd marry when gay marriage is legal
          







          Fresh-faced Keira Knightley beams with pride as she greet fans following her rousing Broadway debut... despite performance interruption
          







          Gwyneth Paltrow's website Goop pokes fun at 'conscious uncoupling' as it promotes self-help book for 'modern break-ups'
          







          EJ Johnson flaunts his slimmer physique in a cropped Chanel jacket teamed with tiny shorts on another shopping spree with Rich Kids gal pal Roxy Sowlaty
          







          Out of this world! Rihanna wears space age silver coat to meet up with rumored beau Travis Scott to party at Paris nightclub
          







          'I like dysfunction': Claire Danes reveals that she favors playing troubled characters on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert
          







          Joanna Krupa flashes a hint of her toned tummy as she wears a low-cut vest top and low-slung jeans to depart LAX airport
          







          'He said yes, and then I said yes!' Tom Daley gushes about fiancé Dustin Lance Black as he shares a heartfelt photo of their diamond engagement rings
          







          Demi Lovato showcases her incredible figure in a strapless top and tight trousers as she co-hosts WE Day in Canada
          







          Vanessa Hudgens looks more sexy than scary in tiny leather shorts and a cat ear headband as she kicks off spooky celebrations at Halloween event
          







          Ireland Baldwin flashes her tattoos in an off the shoulder sweater dress while cuddling and kissing a 'zombie' at Knott's Scary Farm event
          







          Worth the wait! Fashionably late Mariah Carey gets dolled up in a glittery low-cut dress to meet boyfriend James Packer for dinner
          







          So she DID buy it! $25million estate that Taylor Swift denied purchasing 'is registered in her company's name'
          







          'They made my face darker': Model Neelam Gill on how Burberry championed her Indian skin after years of being called a 'P*ki' by classmates
          







          'Still in college mode': Ellie Goulding claims she has never bought anything 'extravagant' and lives off a mere '$10 a day'... despite being worth $26million
          







          Kris Jenner tries to steal the limelight from daughter Kendall in VERY short dress as she cosies up to Balmain designer Olivier Rousteing at dinner
          







          Sienna Miller displays her trademark kooky style in two different ensembles as she cosies up to hunky male at store opening
          







          Kesha shows off her bikini-body while posing for a photoshoot on the stunning beaches of Hawaii
          







          'America's sexiest woman!' Jennifer Lawrence stuffs her face with marshmallows and reveals she doesn't wash her hands after using the bathroom
          







          Jennifer Garner goes casual in a checked top as she cools off with an iced tea after picking up daughter Violet from school
          







          Smiling through the pain! Brave Bindi Irwin grins as she hobbles to her car after Dancing With The Stars rehearsals and reveals bandage on her foot
          







          'One day I'll stop wearing so many hats': Blake Lively jokes about the demise of her Preserve website in playful Instagram post
          







          Lady Gaga oozes retro glamour in Gothic black gown and pin-tuck curls for American Horror Story press conference ahead of her new role as blood-thirsty Countess
          







          Cindy Crawford joins husband Rande Gerber and George Clooney at tequila launch... after actor admits he ended up in bed with her following boozy party
          







          That's an interesting formula! Lewis Hamilton wears pork pie hat, leather jacket and jersey pants for Cindy Crawford's book launch in London
          







          Busted! USA Network pulls crime drama Graceland after just three seasons as ratings drop
          







          Matthew McConaughey is feeling 'alright' as he steps out for a date with his gorgeous wife Camila Alves in NYC
          







          EXCLUSIVE: Naomie Harris admits she only wants to work alongside Daniel Craig on Bond... as she shows off her slender frame in pleated crepe dress in London
          







          Kate Hudson, 36, flaunts her fabulous figure in skimpy Daisy Dukes after Nick Jonas, 23, keeps coy about their rumored hook up
          







          He won't be back! Nicole Kidman takes over from Arnold Schwarzenegger as latest signing for price comparison ad... and dates a meerkat
          







          Best supporting beau: Nicole Kidman beams as she exits theater with husband Keith Urban following performance
          







          Jaden Smith's girlfriend Sarah Snyder defiantly wears T-shirt with her mugshot on it as she attends court hearing in New York
          







          Undercover mother! Hilaria Baldwin goes incognito in a silver padded hoodie vest and skintight leggings while working out in NY
          







          Buffy The Vampire Slayer actor Nicholas Brendon faces multiple charges after 'choking girlfriend during fight'
          







          Can fashion week designs REALLY work off the runway? FEMAIL takes to the street to put the best, worst and weirdest trends to the test... 
          







          'I was a fearful kid who felt powerless': Hugh Jackman compares his childhood self to Peter Pan... as he admits his parents split left him feeling 'volatile'
          







          Dead cool! Rita Ora goes gothic in leather trousers as she cosies up to 'zombies' at Knott's Scary Farm event in California
          







          'Often I feel like an idiot talking to her': George Clooney jokes about comparisons between him and his human rights lawyer wife Amal
          







          Topshop heiress Chloe Green leaves nothing to the imagination in a slinky mesh bustier as she enjoys a night on the tiles with BFF Vas J Morgan
          







          Love Actually actress Martine McCutcheon reveals she's happier with her curves since becoming a mom as she poses for smouldering shoot
          







          A sunny disposition: Lara Bingle shows off her model legs in a sophisticated all-black outfit as she soaks up some rays on a roof
          







          Cara Santana turns up the heat in denim hot pants and sexy knee-high boots as she proves heels are no problem while lifting heavy goods
          







          OJ Simpson 'contemplated killing himself in Kim Kardashian's childhood bedroom' after he was accused of killing his ex-wife 
          







          'That's hot': Miley Cyrus reveals her style secret is to add 17 accessories in promo clip with Leslie Jones for SNL hosting gig
          







          Feeling all white! Newly-single Christina Milian steps out in bizarre sweater dress as she runs errands
          







          Working around the cluck! Alyson Hannigan wears a polka dot blouse and ripped jeans as she delivers a box of baby chickens to her daughters' school
          







          Back together! Eva Longoria jumps on her Desperate Housewives husband Ricardo Chavira for their new show Hot & Bothered
          







          Hippie chic! LeAnn Rimes is a stylish traveler in a pink tie-dye dress and suede ankle boots as she arrives at LAX
          







          Donna Air keeps it chic as she steps out for first time since denying rumors she's split from the Duchess of Cambridge's brother James Middleton
          







          Inside Shannon Beador's call with her husband's mistress: RHOC star claims the other woman said David was 'obsessed' with her
          







          Meet the Marilyn Monroe lookalike, 50, who has made $4 MILLION impersonating the buxom blonde bombshell in movies, TV shows and adverts
          







          Cindy Crawford admits her 14-year-old daughter Kaia is 'embarrassed' by her as the teen interviews her supermodel mom during intimate photoshoot
          







          Daddy day care! Josh Duhamel and son Axl wear their team's colors as they attend American football game
          







          Making the airport her catwalk! Kate Bosworth is runway ready showing off her fashion savvy and sylph like figure at LAX
          







          Love and peace out, man! Zendaya flips a famous hand sign and puckers up as she jets out of Los Angeles
          







          Jesse Eisenberg clasps a gold urn as he films first Woody Allen movie to be shot on location in New York City in 10 years
          







          Sandra Bullock 'adopts a baby girl as sister for son Louis'... as romance with model Bryan Randall heats up
          







          Obese woman who lost 200lbs reveals her new body on Tyra Banks' show six days after undergoing NINE-HOUR surgery to remove unsightly excess skin 
          







          Kendall Jenner draws attention to her pert derriere in tight suede trousers as she joins Olivier Rousteing for a shoot after stunning Balmain PFW show
          







          Ivanka Trump is all business as she heads to work in diamonds and heels after announcing third pregnancy 
          







          Former NFL great Warren Sapp pleads guilty to domestic violence after he 'bit and grabbed his girlfriend and stepped on her head'
          







          Is this the laziest shirt around? Bra-free AnnaLynne McCord wears a top that fails to cover her shoulders and tummy as she hugs mystery man
          







          Playboy pinup Bridget Marquardt, 42, accepts proposal from beau of seven years Nick Carpenter after he gives her a diamond SPIDER ring 
          







          The heart break diet! Gamer who shed 80lb reveals how being dumped drove him to the gym in self-deprecating rant sweeping the internet
          







          Out of this world: In Ridley Scott's best film for years, Matt Damon brings Mars mesmerisingly to life
          







          Check her out! Lily Collins keeps cool in a sheer black and white gingham blouse and baggy harem pants as she enjoys a solo shopping spree
          







          Size 32 'secret eater' who would binge on 10,000 calories a DAY loses 196lbs after battling eating disorders for 30 years
          







          'It was the least I could do': Toni Collette says she would have 'done anything' for cancer sufferer film role
          







          'Why aren't I Sir Michael?': Jacko was desperate to receive a knighthood from the Queen, claims his former bodyguard 
          







          De Niro's Intern gets the job done: The Intern is an affable role-reversal drama 
          







          Batman v Superman director Zack Snyder in early talks with HBO to develop iconic comic book The Watchmen into a TV series
          







          Oasis rocker Noel Gallagher can't take his eyes off stunning wife Sara Macdonald as they put on a loved-up display during star-studded date night
          







          Tori Spelling reveals she has slept with TWO of her former Beverly Hills 90210 co-stars while taking a lie detector test for TV
          







          'It makes me sick to my stomach': Kim Kardashian fumes at Khloe for 'flirting' with ex-husband Lamar Odom in KUWTK clip
          







          Kourtney Kardashian reminisces about babysitting as she and mom Kris reunite with the Jackson family in Next Generation
          







          Claire Danes adds a little edge to patterned red dress with a black leather biker jacket as she heads to Stephen Colbert appearance
          







          Dr Phil's wife Robin McGraw launches campaign to support victims of domestic abuse after being 'moved' by those on her husband's show
          







          Talk about pressure! 380lb My Big Fat Fabulous Life star Whitney Thore takes her new boyfriend home to meet her parents on their SECOND date
          







          LAPD turns Bill Cosby's 2008 Playboy Mansion sexual assault case to the DA
          







          Ashanti comes face-to-face with stalker who thought he was in a relationship with the star during his re-trial for sending sexually explicit messages
          







          Game Of Thrones' Sophie Turner and pal Hailee Steinfeld get VERY excited as they're mobbed by fans in random meet-and-greet
          







          Selena Gomez gets fired up in sexy fashions as she talks about body image and why she doesn't need a boyfriend in Flare magazine 
          







          Jada Pinkett Smith, 44, shows off her enviable figure in abs-flashing crop top after wowing in racy sheer skirt as she continues day of style hits at PFW 
          







          Pierre Cardin puts his bizarre 'sensual' Bubble Palace in the South of France - the scene of many a celeb party and photoshoot - on the market for $450m 
          







          Julia Louis-Dreyfus' son, Charlie Hall, is a Northwestern University basketball walk-on
          







          'A man called Jeremy who won't be in the job for long!' Clarkson takes a pounding in first British TV appearance since being sacked from Top Gear
          







          Jennifer Lawrence says if Donald Trump becomes president 'it will be the end of the world'
          







          More fashion! Gigi Hadid turns heads as she indulges in quick shopping spree with handsome boyfriend Joe Jonas during PFW
          







          Scott Disick's all-night bender with mystery blonde: Troubled reality star bar hops until 6am with new girl while Kourtney takes care of the kids
          







          'Horrible AND scary': Chrissy Teigen leads mass outrage over 'Yelp for humans' app Peeple which lets users rate anyone they want
          







          'Cabbage Patch days': Reflective Miranda Kerr is unrecognizable as she shares cute flashback snap from her childhood
          







          Is the stress of a difficult few months catching up with Gisele? Bundchen has off day as she looks downcast with minimal makeup and unruly locks
          







          A model double act! Bella Hadid and Stella Maxwell show off their svelte figures in chic off-duty looks as they leave Paris Fashion Week show 
          







          Behind the scenes with the Balmain Army: Lily Donaldson goes braless in a sheer dress as she cosies up to catwalk stars in stunning backstage shots at PFW
          







          Just your average working mom! Liv Tyler shares a snap where she's cradling son Sailor on the set of her TV series The Leftovers
          







          Got a craving? A very pregnant Kristin Cavallari shows off her growing bump on frozen yoghurt run with son Camden 
          







          Models take to the runway wearing motorcycle helmets, mesh masks and EACH OTHER at Paris Fashion Week 
          







          Sex therapist goes undercover to get strangers to dish salacious details about their intimate relationships and hook-ups
          







          Lupita Nyong'o puts her best foot forward in a figure-hugging dress as she promotes Off-Broadway role in Eclipsed on The View
          







          Elizabeth Hurley, 50, stuns in a strapless fitted dress as she turns the Empire State Building pink to kick-start Breast Cancer Awareness month
          







          Now that's an ace throwback picture! Amy Schumer serves up a cute childhood photo of her playing tennis to her Instagram fans
          




































 


 


DON'T MISS







          Fan-girl or flirt? 5SOS drummer Ashton Irwin, 21, leans in to SMELL Aussie presenter during a TV interview... and then asks for a cheeky selfie
          







          Kendall Jenner shows off her incredible body in a very sexy cut-out dress as she steals the show at star-studded Balmain catwalk at PFW
          







          Bella Hadid ditches her bra and slips her enviable curves into a tight black dress as she struts her stuff on the runway alongside sister Gigi for Balmain at PFW
          







          Gigi Hadid flashes her toned tum in a crop top and chain mail pencil skirt as she rocks the runway at the Balmain Paris Fashion Week show
          







          Kate Moss looks stunning as she showcases her trademark boho style in shaggy fur coat and folksy dress during shopping trip
          







          'I keep some things to myself': Nick Jonas, 23, plays coy on rumours he 'hooked up' with Kate Hudson, 36, in Florida
          







          Roxy's off duty! Rumer Willis takes a break from Chicago performances to enjoy a low-key outing with sister Scout in NYC
          







          Pajama envy! Make-up free Heidi Klum has that just rolled out of bed look in VERY comfy attire as she jets out of New York
          







          Doutzen Kroes leads Alessandra Ambrosio and Jourdan Dunn down the runway as Balmain brings together a stellar line-up of supermodels at Paris Fashion Week
          







          Amber Rose plants kisses on son Sebastian over lunch... after flashing her voluptuous figure in a low-cut top and ripped jeans
          







          'He snuggled me in that hospital bed all night!': Kim Zolciak thanks husband Kroy Biermann for his support after stroke as she shares rare wedding photo
          







          Sarah Jessica Parker recreates iconic Carrie Bradshaw moment as she poses outside Lincoln Center in a glittering thigh-split gown
          







          'I was selling coke and smoked crack': Tom Hanks' son Chet reveals depth of his addiction in a series of videos and says he checked into rehab to battle it
          







          Kris Jenner, 59, highlights her svelte frame in a unitard as she and toyboy Corey Gamble, 34, support catwalk queen Kendall at Balmain PFW show
          







          Hailey Baldwin displays her long legs in a nude minidress with gold pin detailing as she hits Paris Fashion Week
          







          That's awkward! Kris Jenner steps out in the SAME bold knit as Italian fashion blogger Chiara Ferragni at Balmain show at Paris Fashion Week
          







          Bethenny Frankel shows off her Skinnygirl figure in a tight pencil skirt as she appears on CEO panel in NYC
          







          Clint Eastwood's daughter Francesca beams with delight on night out after her new Heroes reboot premieres
          







          Gwyneth Paltrow urges Goop followers to splash $6,000 on designer T-shirts after insisting she's close to the common woman
          







          Jennifer Connelly displays her svelte frame in a thigh-skimming LBD as she dazzles on the cover of Tatler magazine
          







          Jim Carrey's tragic ex 'kept involvement with Scientology a secret from her family - and never hinted at suicide'
          







          Joker with Hollywood's most TOXIC love life: A-list conquests. A devastating tragedy. And how Jim Carrey has left a trail of emotional mayhem 
          







          EXCLUSIVE PICTURES: Jim Carrey and Cathriona White deep in conversation in final photos of the pair together - two weeks before her tragic suicide
          







          Pierre Cardin puts his bizarre 'sensual' Bubble Palace in the South of France - the scene of many a celeb party and photoshoot - on the market for $450 million
          







          Jessa Duggar is 'cherishing every moment' of pregnancy she counts down her last month of before birth
          







          The mane attraction! North West and Ellen DeGeneres brush My Little Pony's hair in heartwarming snap posted by proud Kim Kardashian
          







          Bill Cosby stripped of ANOTHER honorary degree: USF follows Brown, Fordham and Marquette Universities in rescinding diploma over rape allegations
          







          Queen Letizia displays her worryingly thin arms in a clinging burgundy dress as she launches vocational courses at secondary school
          







          Empire spin-off 'could debut next season on Fox' as second season of Lee Daniels' drama continues to be huge ratings winner for network
          







          Make-up free Kendall Jenner flashes her abs in a very sexy bra top as she dashes to Balmain PFW show in vintage quilted jacket
          







          'I could outsmart you!' Kate Winslet reveals she turned her back on therapy as she believed she was more intelligent than her counselor as she poses for new shoot
          







          John Gotti's grandson marries in 'ceremony worthy of The Godfather with mobsters, Hollywood A-listers, and partying until dawn at Long Island castle'
          







          EJ Johnson shows off his newly-slender build in leather trousers as he brandishes a hot pink Chanel handbag on shopping spree
          







          Breast cancer survivor, 47, unveiled as face of Estée Lauder campaign aiming to highlight the long-term psychological challenges faced by women with disease 
          







          Jenna Dewan puts on a leggy display in tiny denim hotpants and a boho bardot crop top as she enjoys a spot of retail therapy 
          







          Naomi Campbell exposes her envy-inducing physique as she strips naked for a series of raunchy magazine shoots
          







          Simon Cowell's ex Sinitta, 51, puts on a VERY daring display in a completely sheer gown at British TV Awards ceremony
          







          Looking classy baby! Ivanka Trump shows off the beginnings of a bump in an elegant black gown at ballet gala
          







          Cadet to lady! Kris Jenner wears military-inspired jacket to go shopping with toyboy Corey Gamble in Paris
          







          Clear as black and white! Joanna Krupa shows some skin as Ireland Baldwin goes Gothic for PETA's 35th anniversary party
          







          A Marilyn moment! Blonde Courtney Stodden mimics legend Monroe and covers up her copious curves in an all-orange ensemble for PETA bash in LA
          







          She's grown so big! Cate Blanchett's adorable daughter Edith reveals a full head of hair as the actress carries her through Sydney's airport
          







          'They have been together every day': Rita Ora romancing Blink 182 drummer Travis Barker as the pair enjoy cosy dates
          







          Joaquin Phoenix joins his three sisters and mother Arlyn as they gather to honor his late brother River at PETA anniversary event
          







          Brittney Griner gets estranged wife Glory Johnson kicked out of their Arizona home - despite the fact that she is pregnant with twins and due in January
          







          Lady in red! Queen Maxima stands out from the crowd in a bold dress for university meeting as she and her husband prepare for their state visit to China
          







          'Age is but a number': Tom Daley, 21, shows off his engagement ring from new fiancé Dustin Lance Black, 41, as diver's mother insists  age gap isn't an issue
          







          Natalie Portman highlights her effortless beauty with minimal make-up and period attire whilst filming new pre-war movie Planetarium in Paris
          







          'It's complicated': Emily Blunt talks about her ex-boyfriend Michael Buble's infidelity rumors on Howard Stern show
          







          Back on! Million Dollar Listing's Josh Altman and fiancée Heather Bilyeu set to walk down the aisle again after previously postponing nuptials
          







          'You were my first kiss!' Kylie Jenner phones childhood flame after reminiscing about their romance... but has to jog his memory
          







          Rihanna makes the ultimate fashion faux pas with socks and sandals as she swamps her fabulous figure in baggy black layers
          







          Wild Kendall Jenner goes braless and flashes her peachy derriere in a sexy sheer ensemble for late night dinner in Paris
          







          Worst apology ever! Andy Cohen reveals on The Tonight Show that he told Tori Spelling to 'EAT SOMETHING' while saying sorry
          







          Amanda Seyfried flashes a smile while showing off her lean legs... amid news she has split from longtime love Justin Long
          







          Hilaria Baldwin shows off her slim figure in a navy number as she and Alec leave the children at home for a night out at the Clio Awards
          







          The case is up in smoke! Khloe Kardashian and Kris Jenner 'won't be prosecuted for huge fireworks display at yacht party'
          







          Inseparable! Kris Jenner, 59, and beau Corey Gamble, 34, wear matching black ensembles as they attend Pat McGrath event in Paris
          







          That's a Potter money! Daniel Radcliffe puts his New York apartment up for rent at a whopping $19k a month
          







          Scottish actor John Hannah on why he'd like to let his dementia-suffering mother die because she has 'no quality of life'
          







          As if being a supermodel wasn't enough! Bella Hadid reveals 'passion' for horse riding has inspired her to compete in 2016 Rio Olympics
          







          British actress Tina Malone shows off the gruesome scars caused by $75K surgery after '20 years as a fat bird' as she unveils her slimline new figure
          







          Belle of the ballet! Sarah Jessica Parker stuns in a glittering grey ball gown for New York gala
          







          Jaime King shows off her slim post-pregnancy figure in a chic patterned jumpsuit as she enjoys some downtime with her baby boy Leo
          







          There's something fishy going on! Jaime King feeds husband Kyle Newman with chopsticks during romantic sushi date
          







          'Our kids are BFFs': Drew Barrymore and Toni Collette reveal how playing pals in their new movie Miss You Already led to their families becoming inseparable 
          







          How child model in Target's new campaign has Down syndrome and was adopted from a Colombian orphanage before being brought to live in the US as a baby 
          







          Daisy Lowe shows off her bra in a white semi-sheer top paired with skinny jeans as she enjoys casual day out with friends
          







          Miranda Kerr flaunts her flat stomach in a black crop top and floral trousers as she takes her pet pooch for a walk
          







          'Exhausted but determined': Yolanda Foster shares a photo while getting IV treatment as she continues battle against Lyme Disease
          







          Fresh-faced Anne Hathaway goes make-up free as she touches down at LAX with husband Adam Shulman
          







          Latex-clad Lorde seduces a married man and then sets him on fire as she embraces her dark side in raunchy new music video Disclosure
          







          George Clooney reveals he didn't buy wife Amal a first wedding anniversary gift, saying there's no need for 'fireworks' 
          







          'There is resistance and resentment': Homeland star Claire Danes talks about playing a character with postnatal depression after becoming a mother
          




















 


 








 


 






































































































































































































































































































































































































































From the Makers of Candy Crush

















































































	SHARE PICTURE
      






























Copy link to paste in your message






































































































 


 






































































































































































































Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd


Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group




































 
























 


 



































