Calculated killing of Christians in Roseburg? Column Calculated killing of Christians in Roseburg? Column
Weather
Icon
Humidity
Precip.
Winds
Open settings
Settings
Enter City, State or Zip
Cancel
Set
Close settings
More
User
 You are logged in as 
Get the news

                            34
                        
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Facebook
Email
Calculated killing of Christians in Roseburg? Column
When religion draws fire, look to God and the heroic example of Charleston's forgiveness
Post to Facebook
Calculated killing of Christians in Roseburg? Column  When religion draws fire, look to God and the heroic example of Charleston's forgiveness   Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1L8FhCG

                    {#
                    

                    #}
                
Cancel
Send
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the 
Calculated killing of Christians in Roseburg? Column

        Ed Stetzer
    
10:18 a.m. EDT October 2, 2015
When religion draws fire, look to God and the heroic example of Charleston's forgiveness
Denizens of Roseburg gather at a candlelight vigil for the victims of a shooting October 1, 2015 in Roseburg, Ore.
(Photo: Michael Lloyd, Getty Images)

            34
        
CONNECT
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
According to 
, Chris Harper Mercer, the alleged Oregon community college gunman, asked students to stand and state their religion before shooting them.
Stacy Boylen, identified by CNN as the parent of a wounded student, said the killer asked " 'Are you a Christian?’ " He then asked Christians to stand  and said, " ‘Good, because you’re a Christian, you are going to see God in just about one second,’ " before opening fire. Others have reported Mercer “
” in his online writings.
Such 
 and often end up being wrong. And, I hope this one is incorrect — although the same general narrative does continue to surface. Regardless, the conversation gives us a moment to consider this reality because, well, it is not that far fetched.
Not persecuted, but targeted
I’m not one who believes Christians in America are persecuted.
I agree with 
 that Christians in the West who feel they are persecuted need to "grow up" and not claim persecution when they are simply made "mildly uncomfortable.” The alleged “War on Christmas” hasn’t cost any lives.
Yet, there is in fact a disturbing pattern to 
, 
, and 
. Though Charleston was clearly connected to race, in all cases, Christians were targeted. We already have a research 
.
If this report turns out to be wrong, as others have, the tragedy will remain, as will this reality: people of faith, in some cases Christians, have been targeted in mass shootings.
Compelled to Action
I don’t have all the political answers at this moment. Calls for more gun control resonate with many right now. However, Americans 
 and 
.
Still, understandably, moments like this make us want to do 
something. 
Since this involves Christians and society as a whole, perhaps we should ask what, at this moment, Christians 
should 
do, and our society 
must
 do.
These things can be done now.
How should Christians respond?
First, Christians need to be ready to give an answer for the hope that they have (1 Peter 3:15), yes, even if that causes our own deaths. As Christians we know trust in the gospel means hope in a greater story, since Christ came into the world to give life that is eternal, not just temporal.
Second, Christians can follow the beautiful example of our brothers and sisters in Christ in Charleston. When evil came knocking, forgiveness answered. The entire nation was touched by the words of victims’ family members toward Dylann Roof just days after that awful tragedy, offering forgiveness and the gospel they knew. We saw a picture of grace — a picture that should look familiar to Christians. Even through pain and confusion we can and should do likewise.
Third, we have to trust God when we don’t understand. The fact is, no one can (nor should they try) to explain this tragedy on this side of eternity. Evil is real and terrible and God does not give us all the answers — but He does give us Himself. And, in times like this, God is all we have — and He is enough.
Fourth, we can work for a more just society. Isaiah 1:17 instructs us to learn to do good, seek justice and correct oppression. God values justice, so we should, too. As we work for justice in the midst of tragedy, we demonstrate a world as God desires it to be.
How must society respond?
I understand the United States’ cultural tension in which Christian-held values do not always align with current popular opinion. But the truth is, the irreligious in our culture must de-escalate hateful rhetoric toward Christians, no matter how vehement the disagreements between us.
We are quick to point out the deadly consequences of enraged right-wingers (
) and the emotional terrorism of organizations like the Westboro protest cult. Yet, Christians seem to be one of the few groups you can denigrate with impunity, regardless of how the unbalanced in the population are influenced — dare we say 
radicalized 
— by such rhetoric.
If Christians are labeled as “haters” simply because they hold views derived from their Scriptures, the elevated rhetoric can, and indeed does lead to violent actions. It is inevitable.
I am not saying we don’t criticize, but we must not demonize. When we demonize others — Christians, Muslims, gays, African-Americans or whomever — we give mentally unstable or hate-filled people additional justification to kill. Such actions are not our fault. But, everyone should remember the influence our words can have.
Calculated Killings of Christians
The calculated killing of Christians in America is not widespread, but it does exist.
We are not living under the persecution we see under ISIS and we must not pretend we are. Yet, moments like this remind us that our time may come, and, perhaps on a vacation or business trip, we may face a moment like Egyptian Coptic believers did on a beach in Libya.
Or, due to a madman at a community college in Oregon.
May Christians be ready.

As we grieve with the families of the murdered and we pray that the peace of God will guard their hearts and their minds in this difficult time, let’s also do something in light of this tragedy to honor the lives of the victims.
Ed Stetzer is the executive director of LifeWay Research.
In addition to its own editorials, USA TODAY publishes diverse opinions from outside writers, including our 
. To read more columns like this, go to the 
.

            34
        
CONNECT
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1L8FhCG

TOP VIDEOS


                    01:37
                

                    04:15
                

                    05:40
                

                    04:13
                

                    04:18
                

                    03:49
                

                    02:17
                

                    03:17
                

                    02:32
                

                    04:15
                

                    03:15
                

                    03:37
                

                    04:45
                

                    04:35
                

                    02:33
                