Chris Harper Mercer, Oregon college gunman, 'originally from the UK' | US news | The Guardian 



Chris Harper Mercer, Oregon college gunman, 'originally from the UK' | US news | The Guardian
































Close






















 














 


























































from the guardian:














change edition:






















































































›








































































































browse 
 sections



















































Chris Harper Mercer, Oregon college gunman, 'originally from the UK'



















Stepsister of gunman, who killed at least nine people before being fatally shot by police, told CBS Los Angeles he moved to US as a young boy



























Chris Harper Mercer apparently demanded to know his victims’ religious beliefs before opening fire at Umpqua Community College.
Photograph: myspace.com/PA







Staff and agencies





Friday 2 October 2015 
04.25 EDT





Last modified on Friday 2 October 2015 
10.19 EDT














































































The man named as the US college gunman who killed at least nine people before being fatally shot in a standoff with police was originally from the UK, it has been reported. 


Chris Harper Mercer was said to have been born in England before moving across the Atlantic as a child, according to US reports: his stepsister Carmen Nesnick 
 that he travelled to the US as a young boy.


The 26-year-old, 
, apparently demanded to know his victims’ religious beliefs before opening fire at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. 


Authorities, who initially refused to name the gunman, shed no light on his motive and said they were investigating. Several people remain injured in hospital. 


. 


















 
 
 
 Sorry, your browser is unable to play this video. 





























Chris Harper Mercer’s father devastated by Oregon shooting.





The gunman’s father, Ian Harper, said he was “just as shocked as everybody” at his son’s actions. Speaking from his home in the US, Harper, who has an English accent, told reporters: “I’ve just been talking to the police and the FBI and all the details I have right now is what you guys [reporters] have already.


“I can’t answer any questions right now, I don’t want to answer any questions right now. It’s been a devastating day, devastating for me and my family. Shocked is all I can say.”












Topics




















































































































 








































 


































































































































 sections






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































›


















































© 2015 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.






































 



