Oregon Shooting Survivor Ana Boylan Has Bullet Near Spine: Mom - NBC News 

Oregon Shooting Survivor Ana Boylan Has Bullet Near Spine: Mom - NBC News








































































NBC News














More 










Ongoing:




































Search




















Primary Navigation




































More 




































Secondary Navigation










Sections












































Top Ongoing






TV














Featured






























Multimedia










More From NBC






















































 NBC News works best with JavaScript turned on
            
























 










 























                  Oregon College Shooting
                
















































Oct 2 2015, 6:45 am ET










Oregon Shooting Survivor Ana Boylan Has Bullet Near Spine: Mom






by
 
Lauren Prince
 
and
 
F. Brinley Bruton 


















Share
























Print




























 




























Embed






 


3:28




autoplay 


autoplay 








Copy this code to your website or blog














 A teenage victim of 
 rampage underwent surgery after doctors discovered a bullet lodged near her spine, her mother told NBC News. 










Ana Boylan.
 
Courtesy Deanna Boylan






 "We are waiting to see," Deanna Boylan said via text message, adding that daughter Ana Boylan was able to talk with them before her operation. "I will be better when she is out and we know more information." 








 




 The 
reported that Ana Boylan was in a classroom at Umpqua Community College when the attacker — who law enforcement sources have identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer — came in and shot her professor. 


 
Related:
 
 


 "They just laid on the ground and pretended they were dead," her grandmother Janet Willis told the newspaper, citing her granddaughter's account. "If they said they were Christians, they were shot again." 


 At least 10 people were killed and seven others injured when a gunman who demanded to know his victims' religions opened fire at the college. 


 The gunman was killed in a firefight with Douglas County sheriff's deputies, Sheriff John Hanlin said. While sources pointed to Mercer as the shooter, the sheriff wouldn't confirm that identity, saying he didn't want to "glorify" the man's actions. 








 




 




























Embed






 


0:45




autoplay 


autoplay 








Copy this code to your website or blog
































Lauren Prince


























F. Brinley Bruton 


















Topics 




First Published
 
Oct 2 2015, 6:41 am ET
















 Next Story






























































 










































New


























© 2015 NBCnews.com









































































































