 Shooting in Oregon: 11 essential facts about guns and mass shootings in America - The Washington Post  
 Shooting in Oregon: 11 essential facts about guns and mass shootings in America - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Share via Email
More Options
 
Share on Whatsapp
Share on Pinterest
Share on Google Plus
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Share on Google Plus
Share on Pinterest
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Book mark article
 
Read later list
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saved to Reading List
 
 Saved
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Too busy to read this now?
 
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
 
 
 
 
 
Sign in to your account to save this article.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shooting in Oregon: 11 essential facts about guns and mass shootings in America
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
Print Article
Comments
31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
 
October 1 at 3:33 PM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 of 17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Screen
 
Autoplay
 
 
Close
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skip Ad
 
 
 
×
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scenes from campus of deadly shooting at Oregon college
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Photos
 
 
 
Multiple casualties have been reported at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., authorities said.
 
 
 
 
Caption
 
 
 
Multiple casualties have been reported at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., authorities said.
 
 
Oct. 1, 2015
 
Students, staff members and faculty are evacuated from Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.
 
Michael Sullivan/News-Review via AP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wait 1 second to continue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numerous people are reportedly dead in a 
 on the campus of a community college in rural Oregon. It's the latest incident of gun violence in a series this year, including a shooting at 
 and another at 
 
It is not yet clear how many people have been killed in Thursday morning's incident at Umqua Community College in Douglas County or the full circumstances of the shooting.
 
In this post, adapted from 
 after mass killings in the past, we explore America's unique role among advanced countries as a place where support for guns is widespread -- as is violence involving firearms. There are some perhaps surprising findings -- gun ownership in the United States is declining overall, for instance. But although mass killings have occurred with increasing frequency in recent years, support for gun rights is still resolute in America.
 
Here are answers to a few questions you might have about guns and mass shootings, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. Shooting sprees are not rare in the United States. 
 
Mother Jones 
 shooting sprees over the three decades from 1982 to May of last year. They counted "at least 61 mass murders carried out with firearms across the country, with the killings unfolding in 30 states from Massachusetts to Hawaii," they found.
 
A 
 report published in 2013 counted 78 incidents over roughly the same period, in which 547 were killed. Definitions of mass shootings vary. The report excludes those for whom terrorist ideology or criminal profit was a motivation. The Mother Jones staff limited themselves to indiscriminate killings of at least four people in public places by lone shooters.
 
It's too early to say how this latest incident will alter the counts.
 
 
 
 
In most cases, the Mother Jones staff found, the killers had obtained their weapons legally: 
 
2. Gun ownership in the United States is declining overall, but nearly a third of households still have a gun.
 
The General Social Survey 
 Americans about whether they have a gun in their home for decades, and last year essential tied the record low level of gun ownership reached in 2010. As you can see the chart below, 31 percent of adults reporting having a firearm in their household in 2014. That is 17 percentage points below the peak gun ownership from 1977 to 1980.
 
 
 by the Pew Research Center broke down the demographics of gun ownership more broadly. They wrote:
 
Overall, about a third of all Americans with children under 18 at home have a gun in their household, including 34% of families with children younger than 12. That’s nearly identical to the share of childless adults or those with older children who have a firearm at home.
 
The new research also suggests a paradox: While blacks are significantly more likely than whites 
, blacks are only about half as likely as whites to have a firearm in their home (41% vs. 19%). Hispanics are less likely than blacks to be gun homicide victims and half as likely as whites to have a gun at home (20%).
 
 
 
 
 
Pew found that gun ownership is concentrated among older adults, rural residents, and whites, especially white Southerners. Whites in the South are more likely to own guns than whites in other regions.
 
Authorities have yet to identify the shooter or shooters in Thursday's incident.
 
 
 3. Active shooter events have become more common in recent years.
 
, studying active shooting situations between 2000 and 2013, found that these kinds of incidents were happening more and more recently. The first seven years of the study found an average of 6.4 active shootings per year, while the last seven years of the study found that number jumped up to 16.4 incidents per year.
 
Active shooting incidents are defined by federal agencies as "an individual actively engaged in killing or attempting to kill people in a confined and populated area." (This is different from mass killings, which are episodes in which three or more people are killed, according to the FBI. While many active shooting incidents wind up being mass killings, more than half of the episodes in the FBI study did not meet that definition.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4. Of the 12 deadliest shootings in the United States, at least half 
 after 2007.
 
As 
 by The Washington Post shows, several of the deadliest shootings ever in the United States have happened in just the past few years -- including the massacres at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. and at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg. These were the two shootings that claimed the most lives, and the third deadliest shooting was in 1991 in Killeen, Tex.
 
 5. America is an unusually violent country. But we're not as violent as we used to be.
 
 
 
 
Kieran Healy, a sociologist at Duke University, made this 
 of deaths due to assault in the United States and other developed countries. We are a clear outlier -- along with Estonia and Mexico. Yet this country is a far less violent place than it was 40 years ago, with the rate of deaths due to assault declining by roughly half.
 
 As Healy writes, "The most striking features of the data are (1) how much more violent the U.S. is than other OECD countries (except possibly Estonia and Mexico, not shown here), and (2) the degree of change—and recently, decline—there has been in the U.S. time series considered by itself."
 
 6. The South is the most violent region in the United States.
 
 
 
 
In a subsequent 
, Healy looked at deaths due to assault in different regions of the country. Just as the United States is a clear outlier in the international context, the South is a clear outlier in the national context:
 
 
 7. More guns tend to mean more homicide.
 
The Harvard Injury Control Research Center assessed the literature on guns and homicide and found that there's substantial evidence that indicates more guns means more murders.
 
This holds true whether you're looking at different countries or different states. Citations 
.
 
 8. States with stricter gun control laws have fewer deaths from gun-related violence.
 
 
 
 
In 2011, economist Richard Florida 
 into the correlations between gun deaths and other kinds of social indicators. Some of what he found was, perhaps, unexpected: Higher populations, more stress, more immigrants, and more mental illness were not correlated with more deaths from gun violence. But one thing he found was, perhaps, perfectly predictable: States with tighter gun control laws appear to have fewer gun-related deaths. The disclaimer here is that correlation is not causation. But correlations can be suggestive:
 
 "The map overlays the map of firearm deaths above with gun control restrictions by state," Florida wrote in 2012. "It highlights states which have one of three gun control restrictions in place - assault weapons' bans, trigger locks, or safe storage requirements. Firearm deaths are significantly lower in states with stricter gun control legislation. Though the sample sizes are small, we find substantial negative correlations between firearm deaths and states that ban assault weapons (-.45), require trigger locks (-.42), and mandate safe storage requirements for guns (-.48)."
 
 
 9. Gun control, in general, has not been politically popular -- and its popularity has been declining lately.
 
Since 1990, Gallup has been asking Americans whether they think gun control laws should be stricter.
 
The answer, increasingly, is that they don't.
 
"Less than half of Americans, 47%, say they favor stricter laws covering the sale of firearms, similar to views found last year," Gallup 
. "But this percentage is significantly below the 58% recorded in 2012 after the school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, spurred a nationwide debate about the possibility of more stringent gun control laws. Thirty-eight percent of Americans say these laws should be kept as they are now, and 14% say they should be made less strict."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10. While general gun control isn't that popular, particular policies are.
 
While many Americans strongly support the right to bear arms, they also support specific restrictions, such as background checks, assault weapons bans and a federal database to track guns. Here's 
 from Pew Research Center.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11. Shootings don't tend to substantially affect views on gun control.
 
That is what the 
 found after polling Americans after mass shootings in the United States. In fact, Pew 
 late last year that for the first in more than 20 years, Americans showed more support for gun rights than gun control. That's what Pew found after Newtown.
 
 
 
 
 
And before other mass shootings, as well:
 
 
 
 
 
In fact, more people say gun ownership protects people from a crime.
 
 
 
 
 
*Earlier versions of this post were authored by Ezra Klein and Zachary Goldfarb, with contributions from Mark Berman
.
 
 
 
 
Max Ehrenfreund writes for Wonkblog and compiles Wonkbook, a daily policy newsletter. You can subscribe 
. Before joining The Washington Post, Ehrenfreund wrote for the Washington Monthly and The Sacramento Bee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
business
 
 
wonkblog
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
 | 
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Joyful, Illiterate Kindergartners of Finland
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 40 Lucky Children, an Escape From Congo's Diamond Mines
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That asteroid might have needed help wiping out the dinosaurs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amazon Will Stop Selling Google and Apple Streaming Devices at the End of the Month
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marco Rubio: Putin is a 'gangster' and a 'thug' — and here's how I'd take him on
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solar Panels Are About To Get Way, Way Better
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I'm a librarian who banned a book. Here's why.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sieren's China: No more fiddling, more slog
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 things Planned Parenthood's president admitted under oath
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ted Cruz is toast: It's not just that he won't be president -- his days in the Senate are numbered, too
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DARPA is testing implanting chips in soldiers' brains
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to Protect Yourself From Peeple, the ‘Yelp for People' App
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Is it safe to cook with hot tap water?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Election 2016 Is 'Feeling The Bern'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five Things We Learned from the Ravens 23-20 win over the Pittsburgh Steelers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paige: Memories of Mom keep me company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gunman in Oregon college shooting identified
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Germany: Hamburg can now seize commercial property to accommodate migrants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
business
 
 
wonkblog
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Next Story
Christopher Ingraham
 · 
19 hours ago
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
business
 
 
wonkblog
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
 and 
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 