Oregon sheriff who ‘will never’ say shooter’s name is no fan of gun control | FOX2now.com  


Oregon sheriff who ‘will never’ say shooter’s name is no fan of gun control | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































51°






Low 
48°


High 
69°












Sat





					49° 
 67°
					






Sun





					48° 
 66°
					






Mon





					55° 
 75°
					
















 








 






















 








Oregon sheriff who ‘will never’ say shooter’s name is no fan of gun control




Posted 6:31 am, October 2, 2015, by 
 




 


















Students hug after a shooting at Oregon's Umpqua Community College in Roseburg on Thursday. 

http://registerguard.com/rg/news/local/33566342-75/13-reported-dead-20-injured-in-shooting-at-umpqua-community-college-in-roseburg-male-gunman-dead.html.csp
 






×


Oregon sheriff who ‘will never’ say shooter’s name is no fan of gun control






 
Students hug after a shooting at Oregon's Umpqua Community College in Roseburg on Thursday. 

http://registerguard.com/rg/news/local/33566342-75/13-reported-dead-20-injured-in-shooting-at-umpqua-community-college-in-roseburg-male-gunman-dead.html.csp






When Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin stood in front of reporters and declared he would never utter the name of the man who opened fire at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College, he was immediately hailed — and criticized — for his stance.


But Hanlin, who’s been Douglas County sheriff since 2009, isn’t a stranger to garnering headlines with his steadfast declarations.


A staunch believer in the Second Amendment, he fired off a letter two years ago to the Vice President saying he would never comply with any gun control law coming from the Obama administration.


Now that he’s having to contend with a shooting by a man clothed in body armor who carried four guns and killed 10 people, some analysts wonder if he will change his tune.


Not saying it


Hanlin said he has a perfectly good reason to not publicize the shooter.


“I will not name the shooter,” Hanlin said Thursday. “I will not give him the credit he probably sought prior to this horrific and cowardly act. You will never hear me mention his name. We would encourage media to avoid using it, to not repeat it. We encourage you not to glorify and create sensationalism for him. He in no way deserves this. Focus your attention on the victims, on the families, helping them get through this difficult time.”


Multiple law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation identified the gunman as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer.


Social media lit up with cheers and scorn after his remarks.


One Twitter user expressed “serious respect” for Hanlin for not naming the shooter.


Another person said Hanlin’s decision was gutsy and an example for others in law enforcement.


“We need more lawmen and lawwomen like Sheriff John Hanlin. Courageous, tough and fair. We support and stand with you,” wrote Matt Sere.


But not everyone on Twitter was supportive. Colleen C said Hanlin “fought against universal background checks & gun sense laws. He is part of the problem”


Sheriff’s strong stands


In January 2013 — just weeks after the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, left 20 children dead — Hanlin sent a letter to Vice President Joe Biden, strongly expressing his displeasure at the Obama administration’s efforts to pass gun control legislation.


“Gun control is NOT the answer to preventing heinous crimes like school shootings,” Hanlin wrote. “Any actions against, or in disregard for our U.S. Constitution and 2nd Amendment rights by the current administration would be irresponsible and an indisputable insult to the American people.”


Hanlin also told the Vice President that as sheriff he would not enforce any gun control laws or executive orders coming from the Obama administration.


Obama’s post-Sandy Hook gun control push later died in Congress.


Hanlin also spoke out earlier this year against legislation in Oregon — Senate Bill 941 — that would require criminal background checks on private gun sales. Hanlin said the measure wouldn’t keep guns out of the hands of criminals and his department didn’t have the resources to properly enforce it.


Despite his opposition the bill became law and went into effect in August, according to The Oregonian newspaper.


Jeff Zelney, CNN’s Senior Washington Correspondent, wondered if Hanlin would change his stance as the gun control debate is revived in the wake of the shootings.


“It will be interesting to see if this sheriff keeps opposing (background checks),” Zelney said on “Anderson Cooper 360” Thursday night. “What we need here if you talk to experts is a change of minds here, people to come together. So let’s check in with that sheriff in a couple of days to see if he’s still opposing that.”


By Doug Criss








Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
, 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps






































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































