‘Our hearts are broken’: TV reporter, photographer shot to death during live interview | fox8.com  


‘Our hearts are broken’: TV reporter, photographer shot to death during live interview | fox8.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu
































Cleveland












53°






Low 
49°


High 
59°








Akron/Canton












47°






Low 
45°


High 
61°


















 








 






















 








‘Our hearts are broken’: TV reporter, photographer shot to death during live interview




Posted 9:10 am, August 26, 2015, by 
, 
Updated at 12:28pm, August 26, 2015
 




 
















MONETA, Va. — 
 with today’s killings of two WDBJ journalists shot himself after authorities confronted him on Interstate 66 in Virginia, officials told CNN’s Pamela Brown.


While police originally told WDBJ that the suspect was dead, they have since said a pulse was found and he is in critical condition.


Police were seeking the former WDBJ-TV reporter in connection with the shooting deaths of a reporter and photographer on live television Wednesday, a representative of the Augusta County Sheriff’s Department said.


Vester Flanagan was driving a 2009 gray Ford Mustang, the sheriff’s representative said.


Flanagan worked at WDBJ as a reporter for about a year using the on-air name, Bryce Williams, according to a former WDBJ employee.


Flanagan was fired from the station, though the reason was not made public, the ex-employee said.


Two videos posted on a Twitter account under the name, Bryce Williams, show someone walking up to the WDBJ news crew and pointing a gun at them.


Another tweet says, “I filmed the shooting.” The Facebook and Twitter account were suspended shortly after the tweets.


One of the videos shows the gunman approaching WDBJ reporter Alison Parker and photographer Adam Ward as Parker conducted a routine interview about a local story outside Moneta, Virginia.


Ward’s back is to the gunman. Parker is in profile, and the interviewee is facing the gunman. The shooter appears to take his time aiming the gun, presenting it and then withdrawing it, before composing the angle of his video. He opens fire on Parker first. Both Parker and the interviewee scream.


On air, the audience saw the camera fall to the ground and caught the briefest glimpse of a man who appeared to point a gun toward the downed cameraman.


The station cut away to a shocked anchor, Kimberly McBroom, back in the studio.


Parker, 24, and photographer Adam Ward, 27, were killed at Bridgewater Plaza near Moneta, the station reported later.


Ward’s fiancée was in the control room and saw the shooting, WDBJ General Manager Jeff Marks told CNN.


The woman being interviewed, Vicki Gardner, executive director of the Smith Mountain Lake Regional Chamber of Commerce, was shot in the back and is in surgery, said Barb Nocera, the chamber’s special projects manager said.


The gunman is believed to have fired six or seven times, Marks said.


He remains on the loose. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives has joined in the manhunt, while the ATF and FBI are participating in the investigation. Area schools are on lockdown.


Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe told WTOP radio in Washington that the suspected gunman may be a disgruntled employee of the TV station.


Authorities know the identity of the man believed to be the shooter, a law enforcement official told CNN.


“We do not know the motive,” Marks said. “We do know the Franklin County sheriff … they are working very diligently to track down both the motive and the person responsible for this terrible crime against two fine journalists,” he said during the station’s coverage of the shooting.


“Our hearts are broken,” Marks also said. “We have people walking around here in tears, lots of hugs.”


McBroom described Parker as a “rock star” and said, “You throw anything at that girl and she could do it.”


Another journalist at the anchor’s desk said Ward was engaged to be married to morning show producer at WDBJ, Melissa Ott, and Ward recently told her, “I’m going to get out of news. I think I’m going to do something else.”


Ward joined WDBJ in 2011 after graduating from Virginia Tech with a degree in communication and media studies, according to his Facebook page. He enrolled at the university in 2007, the same year a gunman went on a deadly rampage, leaving 32 people dead.


In April, days before the eighth anniversary of the campus massacre, Ward changed his Facebook profile photo to an image of the Virginia Tech logo with a black ribbon.


Parker was the morning reporter for the Roanoke station and a native of Virginia, having spent most of her life outside Martinsville. She started with WDBJ as an intern, her biography on the station’s website says.


She previously worked with another CNN affiliate, WCTI-TV, in Jacksonville, North Carolina, near Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune.


She was a graduate of James Madison University’s School of Media Arts and Design in Harrisonburg, Virginia.


Chris Hurst, a reporter for the station, tweeted that he and Parker “were very much in love” and had just moved in together after dating nine months, “the best nine months of our lives. We wanted to get married. We just celebrated her 24th birthday.”


He continued, “She was the most radiant woman I ever met. And for some reason she loved me back. She loved her family, her parents and her brother.”


Hurst described himself as “numb.”


Parker and Ward worked together every day, Hurst tweeted. “They were a team. I am heartbroken for his fiancee,” he wrote.


“You know, you send people into war zones, you send people into dangerous situations and into riots, and you worry that they are going to get hurt. You send somebody out to do a story on tourism and — how can you expect something like this to happen?” Marks told CNN.


A local pastor, “a friend of the newsroom,” is at the station, consoling Parker’s and Ward’s co-workers, he said.






 




We didn’t share this publicly, but 
 and I were very much in love. We just moved in together. I am numb. 


— Chris Hurst (@chrishurstwdbj) 


We were together almost nine months. It was the best nine months of our lives. We wanted to get married.We just celebrated her 24th birthday — Chris Hurst (@chrishurstwdbj) 




I am comforted by everyone at 
. We are a family. She worked with Adam every day. They were a team. I am heartbroken for his fiancee.


— Chris Hurst (@chrishurstwdbj) 


Stick with Fox 8 and Fox8.com for more.




It is with extreme sadness that we report WDBJ7’s Alison Parker and Adam Ward were killed in an attack this morning. 


— WDBJ7 (@WDBJ7) 


 


We love you, Alison and Adam. 


— WDBJ7 (@WDBJ7) 


 




Update: Allison Parker and photographer Adam Ward have been killed in the shooting at Bridgewater Plaza at SML. 


— Brent Watts (@wattsupbrent) 




 






Please enable Javascript to watch this video








37.181254


-79.617254




















Trademark and Copyright 2015 
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Clickable Weather
Click here to get up to date weather.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps










































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		5800 South Marginal Road, Cleveland, OH 44103 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WJW		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































