Was Chris Mercer Harper Inspired by Vester Flanagan? | Heavy.com 

Was Chris Mercer Harper Inspired by Vester Flanagan? | Heavy.com














































































































































































 




































Was Chris Mercer Harper Inspired by Vester Flanagan?






Published
 
10:25 pm EDT, October 1, 2015






Updated
 10:34 pm EDT, October 1, 2015			




 



							By 






9.5k		




























(Twitter)


A blog post allegedly written by reported Umpqua Community College gunman Chris Mercer Harper seems to idolize 
, the man who killed two WDBJ7 TV reporters on-camera last month. A post written on August 31, in a blog allegedly operated by Harper, states:




(kat.cr)




A transcript reads:


As I’m sure you all know, a few days ago there was a shooting in Virginia. A man named Vester Flanagan opened fire on two former colleagues on live tv. He also recorded his own footage of the event. While reading about the event, I read some excerpts of his manifesto the media was releasing. And I have to say, anyone who knew him could have seen this coming. People like him have nothing left to live for, and the only thing left to do is lash out at a society that has abandoned them.


His family described him as alone, no partner/lover. A victim not only of his own perception but also of our social media soaked enviroment. He posted the footage on facebook and twitter as well tweeting while he was running from the cops because he wanted the world to see his actions, much like many others post menial and trivial details of their life online and expect us to see it. Only his was at least a bit more interesting. 


On an interesting note, I have noticed that so many people like him are all alone and unknown, yet when they spill a little blood, the whole world knows who they are. A man who was known by no one, is now known by everyone. His face splashed across every screen, his name across the lips of every person on the planet, all in the course of one day. Seems the more people you kill, the more your’re in the limelight. 


Sorry if this seems a bit disjointed, but these are just my thoughts on the matter. I thought I’d post this seeing as how my last blog post generated some good comments. 


Also, if anyone gets the chance, go on youtube and see the footage of him shooting those people. It’s a short video but good nonetheless. Will post more later


Flanagan opened fire during a live interview with a member of the local Chamber of Commerce. 
, 27, and 
, 23, of WDBJ 7 TV, were killed. The woman being interviewed, Vicki Gardner, was also shot and wounded, 
, but recovered. Gardner is the executive director at the Smith Mountain Lake Regional Chamber of Commerce.


Most notably, Flanagan posted video of the shooting on his Facebook and Twitter pages. The video shows him approaching the victims, and pointing a gun at them. He is behind them for several moments as Parker interviews Gardner. He holds the gun out until Ward turns the camera back toward Parker and Gardner, and then begins firing. The camera then shakes and drops as he opens fire. The camera continues recording, with a black screen, as screams and several more gunshots are heard. Flanagan fired 15 times, emptying the entire magazine of the Glock handgun he was carrying. He purchased the gun legally two weeks before the shooting.


Flanagan was later confronted by police in Fauquier County, about three hours away from where the shooting occurred. 


Chris Harper Mercer has been identified as the gunman in the shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon that left 10 dead.


Chris Harper Mercer is the alleged gunman who killed 10 at Umpqua Community College. But did he say he was going to on a shooting spree on 4Chan the night before?




Sam Prince


covers social media trends and breaking news for Heavy. He is a New York City-based actor and singer who tours internationally with a Four Seasons tribute band and has appeared on various television shows and Broadway. Email him at 
 and find him on Twitter 
. Read and subscribe to 
.




October 1, 2015 10:34 pm
 
































Related Items
 






Related posts from this category


















Leave a comment








Leave a Reply 










Enter your comment here...










Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:








































 






Email 
(Address never made public)








Name








Website






























 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Twitter account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Facebook account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Google+ account. 
( 
 / 
 )












Connecting to %s










 
Notify me of new comments via email.
 
Notify me of new posts via email.


 








 







			1 comment		












 
Anonymous
 
says:
 












”>>Look Here Now…my neighbor’s sister-in-law makes $68 /hour on the internet . She has ℬeen fired for ten months ℬut last month her income was $18319 just working on the internet for a few hours. hop over to here………{{{{:{{{{{{{{{{{…….korta.nu/Mv8…….Copy Now




 




























	Copyright © 2015 Heavy, Inc. All rights reserved. Powered by 








Related posts from this category



































































