Umpqua CC student: 'People are getting shot. This is real' 

Umpqua CC student: 'People are getting shot. This is real'










































































































































































































 
























51° 
F




Broken Clouds




Hi: 68° F


Lo: 51° F
















 










Menu




 










News




































Featured:




 
 


Latest Headlines













	Updated: 
10 mins
 ago








WASHINGTON (AP) — House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy says he regrets suggesting the House special committee on Benghazi has political goal…

























	Updated: 
20 mins
 ago








CINCINNATI (AP) — A federal court filing shows that a plea deal has been reached in the case of an accountant arrested along the Appalachian…























	Updated: 
20 mins
 ago

















	Updated: 
20 mins
 ago

















	Updated: 
40 mins
 ago






















Weather






































 


Current Conditions










51° 
F


Broken Clouds






Feels Like: 
51° F


Wind: 
 0


Humidity: 
92%


Dewpoint: 
49° F


Sunrise: 
7:09 AM


Sunset: 
6:49 PM










Portland Weather


































 
Sponsored by:
 












































































































 




Search for:




















51° 
F




Broken Clouds




Hi: 68° F


Lo: 51° F


























Umpqua CC student: ‘People are getting shot. This is real’


A mass shooting left at least 10 dead at Umqua Community College






KOIN 6 News Staff



	Published: 
October 1, 2015, 12:55 pm



	Updated: 
October 1, 2015, 10:40 pm





































				Hannah Miles, a student at Umqua Community College, speaks with reporters in Roseburg, Ore., Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. Miles says she was in the classroom next door to a deadly shooting on the campus. (AP Photo/Ryan Kang)			








Related Coverage
































































ROSEBURG, Ore. (KOIN) — Eyewitness accounts of the 
 painted a chilling picture of what happened mid-morning on October 1, 2015.


A student and her mother


Hannah was in the class next to where the shooting began. The 19-year-old, who is in her first week at the school, told KOIN 6 News that hours later she was still in shock.


She spent time with the Red Cross and her parents.


Sandy Miles, who is a respiratory therapist at local hospital, heard about the shooting at UCC. She tried to call Hannah, but couldn’t get hold of her and began to fear the worst.


Hannah Miles, a student at Umqua Community College, speaks with reporters in Roseburg, Ore., Thursday, Oct. 1, 2015. (AP Photo/Ryan Kang)


Miles was at work at the time and thought, “Is this going to be Hannah coming in on a stretcher?”


But her husband contacted her and said Hannah was OK.


“We did not know how many were coming in, we were just trying to get prepared,” Miles said. “All hands on deck. We had rooms lined up with doctors and nurses, so forth and so on. I just wanted to get to her, but I know I had a job to do as well. We got through it there. Now, I’m out here taking care of her, my baby.”








































Student in the library


Umpqua Community College student Lacey Gregory, who is in her first week at the school, told KOIN 6 News she was sitting in the library when the shooting began that left 10 dead, including the shooter, and 7 wounded.


“I am pretty shaken up,” she said. “I saw my friend Alex. He apparently ran past the shooting that was happening into the library to let us know that what was going on was real and people were being shot. I saw people running from the English hall across the courtyard toward every direction. It was crazy.


Authorities carry a shooting victim away from the scene of a shooting at Umpqua Community College. (Mike Sullivan/Roseburg News-Review via AP)


“I remember getting out of my seat, grabbing by backpack and I was next to my boyfriend. We all got moved to a different location in the library, a more secure one. I just remember standing there. It was scary.”


Gregory told KOIN 6 News she was maybe 100 yards from the shooter and where the shots were fired.


Her friend, she said, “was yelling through the library, ‘People are getting shot. This is real. It is a shooting. You need to get down!’ We all got escorted into the back of the library and it was really scary.”


She stayed there for as much as a half-hour “crammed together before we were cleared by officers.”








































Gregory said the Roseburg police banged on the door. “He had a key to the door and (told us to come out) with our hands up. Our hands came out first and then went over our head as we walked out single-file to where they had claimed a safe zone. From then on we had our hands up and then they searched us one at a time, moved us to a clear zone to be transported out of the area.”


The shooting took place, she said, in the English hall that is not subdivided inside. The fall term at Umpqua Community College just began Monday. It is Lacey Gregory’s first week on the campus.


Another eyewitness


Another student was inside his classroom when the shooting began.


“Our teacher got an email that was sent to him and he started to lock down the room. All we knew at the time was that there was a shooter. We did not not know where or waht was going on,” he told KOIN 6 News.


Friends and family are reunited with students at the local fairgrounds after a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College. (AP Photo/Ryan Kang)


They gathered in a small area that was not reachable by windows, he said, and stayed there until the sheriff showed up.


“It was kind of intense,” he said. “You are anticipating the end and what will happen. I don’t really know, other than that. I was doing a lot of pacing, waiting for answers.”


He and about 14 others were in a building on the other side of campus from the shooting. When the sheriff’s deputies arrived, “they told everyone to raise their hands so they could see and make sure no one had a weapon. Then they proceeded to escort us all out to an area where we could be searched and make sure none of us had weapons. Then get us on the buses and get us out.”








































Friend of a victim


Christina Baynardo, a friend of one of the victims, told KOIN 6 News her friend was Life Flighted and was undergoing surgery. Baynardo said, as far as she knew, that victim was expected to survive a gunshot wound that missed her spine and lungs but ripped through muscle tissue.


Baynardo said there was nothing out of the ordinary when the day began.


“I drove to school and was jamming to Taylor Swift. This was just going to be a regular biology lab day.”








































Student in the science building 


Kayleen Holm was in the science building when the shooting happened, about 100 feet away.


“When we found out, it was terrifying, it was so close,” Holm told KOIN 6 News. One of her friends told her she heard something that sounded like a car backfiring or a bb gun.


“When we found out it was a gunman it was hard to imagine, and then we found out the gun was silenced.”


Holm also said somebody was in their car, getting ready to go to class, but someone else told that person to stay in their car.


“He saved her life.”


Share this:
Like this:
Like
 
Loading...




Related






Advertisement












More Headlines




















Photo Galleries
























Oregon






















Advertisement
Trending Stories on KOIN.com
 
 








































More Crime Stories
 

















	Updated: 
23 mins
 ago








Paul Jackson, who fled Oregon in 1990 after being indicted for kidnapping and rape, was returned to the Washington County Jail early Friday …


























October 1, 2015








Hundreds gathered in Roseburg and in Portland in vigils for the victims of the Umpqua Community College shooting.












Recent Recommendations
Advertisement
 






Advertisement
 






Advertisement
















© 2000-2015 LIN Television Corporation, a Media General company. All rights reserved



Powered by 






Sections




























Weather














Station


















Business










 






Follow




















 
Contact Us!


Go to our 
 to send us your news tips, investigations and weather pictures. You can also ask us programming questions and provide feedback on our digital products. 




Thank you!


 






























































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			












%d
 bloggers like this:








































 



