Randleman victim in Oregon community college shooting tried to stop gunman, family says | myfox8.com  


Randleman victim in Oregon community college shooting tried to stop gunman, family says | myfox8.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu














































55°






Low 
54°


High 
56°












Sat





					52° 
 58°
					






Sun





					58° 
 63°
					






Mon





					56° 
 65°
					




















 








 




























 








Randleman victim in Oregon community college shooting tried to stop gunman, family says




Posted 5:52 pm, October 1, 2015, by 
 and 
 




 














 










Please enable Javascript to watch this video








RANDLEMAN, N.C. -- A man originally from Randleman was shot and injured in the Oregon community college shooting Thursday that resulted in 10 fatalities.


Seven other people were injured when a gunman -- identified as Chris Harper Mercer-- opened fire at Oregon's Umpqua Community College in Roseburg.


Chris Mintz graduated from Randleman High School in 2003 and had been in Oregon for at least 10 years, according to family members.


Mintz spent most of Thursday in surgery after receiving seven gunshots during the attack. Family members said Mintz was able to talk to loved ones before going into surgery. He told them that he heard gunshots in another classroom and tried to keep the gunman from entering his classroom.


“He could have very easily died,” said Wanda Mintz, the victim’s aunt. “I really think that if he wasn't such a strong, young guy, he may have died.”


Family members said both of Mintz’s legs are broken and he will have to relearn to walk, but he is now recovering and expected to survive. No vital organs were hit.


Mintz has been in the military for at least 10 years and was in Oregon, primarily, to raise his son, according to his family.


Even though there’s a nearly-3,000-mile separation, family members in the Piedmont remain close.


“My brother talked to Chris on the phone while Chris was walking into school to tell him to remind his grandson that grandpa said, ‘Happy Birthday,’” said Wanda Mintz.


Grandfather, father and son spent a week together before Chris began his second year of classes at Umpqua Community College. Thursday was his fourth day back.


The Mintz family in the Piedmont spent Thursday praying for Chris and consoling each other. They remain upbeat about his chances at a full recovery.


“His vital signs are OK he's going to have to learn to walk again but he walked away with his life and that's more than so many other people did,” said Ariana Earnhardt, Chris’ cousin.




35.817914


-79.803087










Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.










 




 






Popular








































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 


































 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts


































































Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 56,825 other followers






































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

































