Chris Harper Mercer: Umpqua Community College shooter identified | myfox8.com  


Chris Harper Mercer: Umpqua Community College shooter identified | myfox8.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu














































55°






Low 
54°


High 
56°












Sat





					52° 
 58°
					






Sun





					58° 
 63°
					






Mon





					56° 
 65°
					




















 








 




























 








Chris Harper Mercer: Umpqua Community College shooter identified




Posted 9:11 pm, October 1, 2015, by 
 and 
, 
Updated at 09:45pm, October 1, 2015
 




 


















The scene after a shooting at Oregon's Umpqua Community College in Roseburg on Thursday. (Credit: The Register-Guard)
 






×


Chris Harper Mercer: Umpqua Community College shooter identified






 
The scene after a shooting at Oregon's Umpqua Community College in Roseburg on Thursday. (Credit: The Register-Guard)






ROSEBURG, Ore. — The shooter who opened fire at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College on Thursday has been identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer.


Officers and the gunman exchanged fire at the Roseburg campus.


Mercer is dead, according to Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin.


The shooter was asking people to stand up and state their religion and then started firing away, witness Kortney Moore 
.


Preliminary information indicates 10 people were killed and several others were injured in the shooting, according to Oregon State Police spokesman Bill Fugate.


The shooting appears to have started in one building before the gunman moved to the school’s science building, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN. Those killed and wounded were found in at least two classrooms.


Harper is a former resident of Torrance, Calif., 
.


Prior story


ROSEBURG, Ore. — The man who opened fire at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College on Thursday is dead, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin told reporters.


No police officers were injured, but preliminary information indicates 10 people were killed and several others were injured in the shooting, according to Oregon State Police spokesman Bill Fugate.


Officers and the gunman exchanged fire at the Roseburg campus.


Cassandra Welding is a student at the college and was in class when the shooting started.


“I heard a popping noise, almost like a balloon popping,” she told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer. “I knew something wasn’t right and so I get down.”


She said all of the students in her classroom dropped to the ground. They huddled together behind backpacks and chairs, underneath tables.


“We locked the doors, turned off the lights, and we were all pretty much in panic mode,” Welding said.


“We called 911 and called our parents, our loved ones … We didn’t know what was going to happen, if those were our last words or not.”


The shooting


The shooting appears to have started in one building before the gunman moved to the school’s science building, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN. Those killed and wounded were found in at least two classrooms.


“We arrived to find multiple patients in multiple classrooms. Law enforcement was on scene and had the shooter neutralized,” said Douglas County Fire Marshal Ray Shoufler.


He told CNN that two patients died while being transported to a hospital.


Mercy Medical Center posted on Facebook that it had received 10 patients. The extent of their injuries was not known.


Three female victims were at PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend in Springfield, according to a hospital spokeswoman.


A law enforcement official told CNN three pistols and one rifle believed to have belonged to the suspect were recovered at the scene.


ATF agents were also on scene and canine teams were en route to search for explosives, fire arms casings and ammunition, a spokesman said. FBI agents were en route.


The investigation


According to the source with knowledge of the investigation, authorities are looking at social media posts between a person they believe may have been the shooter, and others.


The conversation happened Wednesday night on 4chan.


In it, the writer talks about planning to carry out a shooting. Others egg him on, giving him suggestions on how to do it, and the type of weapons to use.


The responses are mixed — with some users characterizing the would-be gunman as a pathetic loser. Others called him a twisted hero.


In the posts, there is a reference to the UC Santa Barbara shooter, who wrote a manifesto and videoed himself before opening fire a year ago.


“This is the only time I’ll ever be in the news. I’m so insignificant,” read an apparent post by the would-be Oregon gunman.


The community


Roseburg is a city of about 22,000 people about 70 miles south of Eugene, Oregon, and some 180 miles south of Portland.


The school itself is up on a hill outside the city center, according to Rick Francona, a CNN military analyst who lives nearby. Francona said that logging is a big industry in the region, which is fairly rural but easily accessible from Interstate 5.


“This is so out of character for this whole area,” he said.


News of the shooting quickly reached Washington, with the state’s senior senator, Ron Wyden, visibly shaken and Sen. Jeff Merkley tweeting that he was praying for the victims and their families.


U.S. President Barack Obama was briefed on the situation and will continue to receive updates throughout the day.


He pushed for a change in gun laws when he spoke to reporters about the shooting Thursday.


“Our thoughts and prayers are not enough. It’s not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel, and it does nothing to prevent this carnage from being inflicted someplace else in America — next week, or a couple months from now,” he said.


The school


A picturesque campus in the North Umpqua River Valley, Umpqua Community College prides itself on a “a peaceful, safe atmosphere, and year-round recreational activities,” according to its website.


It’s not a traditional institution of higher learning, as the average age of its 13,600 students was 38 during the 2013-2014 school year. Only 740 of those were full time, 2,437 were part time and more than 10,000 fell under the umbrella of “community education.”


It first began teaching classes out of rented facilities in 1961. Elton and Ruth Jackson donated 98.5 acres to house the campus in 1965.


The school will be closed until Monday as a result of the shooting.


The interim leader of Umpqua Community College called Thursday “the saddest day in the history of the college.”






"The shooter was asking people to stand up and state their religion and then started firing away” — via 
 


— Scott Gustin (@ScottGustin) 








EMS is on the scene at Umpqua Community College | 
 (Photo credit: NR Today) 


— Fox News (@FoxNews) 








Authorities check bags as students and staff are moved off campus at Umpqua Community College after shooting report. 


— Michael Sullivan (@MikeSullPhoto) 








Expecting at least three victims from 
. We ask media to avoid RiverBend; briefing later at RIverBend Annex


— PeaceHealth Oregon  (@PeaceHealth_Ore) 








We have received 9 patients from the UCC tragedy and 3 more enroute. 

Please continue to pray.


— MMC Health (@MMCHealth) 








So Thankful our son is safe. He was just outside Snyder hall and saw it start and jumped in his rig and sped off


— Louise Ungerman  (@LouiseUngerman) 












Active shooter scene is code 4. Multiple casualties all pt's transported. Media requests are being handled by Douglas County Major Crimes


— Fire Dist No.2 (@DCFD2) 








Hi all, I appreciate the texts and messages. I'm okay. My prayers and thoughts go out to all that were affected.


— Roger Sanchez (Raj) (@RogerSanchez11) 








At about 10:38 AM, the 911 center received a report of a shooting at Umpqua Community College. Police units from… 


— Douglas Co Sheriff (@DouglasCoSO) 
















43.216505


-123.341738










Filed in:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.










 




 






Popular








































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 


































 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts


































































Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 56,825 other followers






































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

































