After shooting, Virginia gunman details grievances in ‘suicide note’ faxed to ABC News | myfox8.com  


After shooting, Virginia gunman details grievances in ‘suicide note’ faxed to ABC News | myfox8.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu














































55°






Low 
54°


High 
56°












Sat





					52° 
 58°
					






Sun





					58° 
 63°
					






Mon





					56° 
 65°
					




















 








 




























 








After shooting, Virginia gunman details grievances in ‘suicide note’ faxed to ABC News




Posted 2:46 pm, August 26, 2015, by 
 




 


















Vester Flanagan, known on-air as Bryce Williams
 






×


After shooting, Virginia gunman details grievances in ‘suicide note’ faxed to ABC News






 
Vester Flanagan, known on-air as Bryce Williams






A man who claimed to be “Bryce Williams” called ABC News over the past few weeks, saying he wanted to pitch a story and fax information.


, this morning, a fax was sent to the news station at 8:26 a.m. — almost two hours after the 
 of WDBJ reporter Alison Parker and photographer Adam Ward in Moneta, Va.


A little after 10 a.m., ABC says he called the station again and identified himself as “Bryce,” also saying his legal name was Vester Lee Flanagan. He told the station he shot two people and that authorities were after him. He then hung up.


ABC said they contacted authorities and immediately provided them with the fax.


In the 23-page document, the writer claiming to be Flanagan said the Charleston church shooting in June triggered today’s shootings.


“Why did I do it? I put down a deposit for a gun on 6/19/15. The Church shooting in Charleston happened on 6/17/15…”


“What sent me over the top was the church shooting. And my hollow point bullets have the victims’ initials on them.”


The writer continued, “As for Dylann Roof? You [deleted]! You want a race war [deleted]? BRING IT THEN YOU WHITE …[deleted]!!!” He said in the document sent to ABC that Jehovah spoke to him, telling him to act.


ABC said later in the manifesto, the writer quotes the Virginia Tech mass killer, Seung Hui Cho, and calls him “his boy.”


“Also, I was influenced by Seung–Hui Cho. That’s my boy right there. He got NEARLY double the amount that Eric Harris and Dylann Klebold got…just sayin’.”


Harris and Klebold were the teens responsible for the Columbine High School massacre on April 20, 1999.


ABC described the document as an “often rambling letter to the authorities, family and friends.” The man claiming to be Flanagan wrote a long list of grievances, the station said. In one part of the document, the writer calls it a “Suicide Note for Friends and Family.”


The writer claimed he suffered racial discrimination, sexual harassment and bullying at work. He said he was attacked by black men and white females, and said he was attacked for being a gay, black man.


“The church shooting was the tipping point…but my anger has been building steadily…I’ve been a human powder keg for a while…just waiting to go BOOM!!!!”


Flanagan shot himself after being confronted by authorities on Interstate 66 in Virginia. He was flown to the hospital and died at approximately 1:30 p.m.




37.181254


-79.617254










Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
, 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage










 




 






Popular








































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 












































 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts


































































Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 56,825 other followers






































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

































