Va. shooter posted tweets, video of shooting on social media | myfox8.com  


Va. shooter posted tweets, video of shooting on social media | myfox8.com














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu














































55°






Low 
54°


High 
56°












Sat





					52° 
 58°
					






Sun





					58° 
 63°
					






Mon





					56° 
 65°
					




















 








 




























 








Va. shooter posted tweets, video of shooting on social media




Posted 11:32 am, August 26, 2015, by 
 




 














MONETA, Va. — The shooter believed to have 
 and shoot a third person Wednesday morning during an on-air live interview posted tweets of the shooting — including video of the shooting. Twitter has since suspended the account. FOX8 will not be showing the video out of respect for the victims.


Vester Flanagan, known on-air as Bryce Williams




Vester Lee Flanagan formerly worked as a reporter at WDBJ, where he went on-air by the name of Bryce Williams. He has worked as a reporter at a number of stations throughout the South, including WNCT in Greenville, North Carolina; WTWC in Tallahassee, Florida; and WTOC in Savannah, Georgia.


In the Tweets, video clearly filmed by Flanagan (his Twitter account name was Bryce Williams) shows him aiming a gun at WDBJ reporter Alison Parker and firing. The video stops before all of the shots are fired. Photographer Adam Ward also was killed.


In additional Tweets Flanagan accused Alison of making racist comments and said “They  hired her after that!?” In another Tweet he accused Adam of going to “hr on me after working with me one time!”


He also posted the videos to Facebook and YouTube.


Parker’s father, Andy, told the Washington Post he was horrified to learn that the gunman had filmed the shooting and posted footage of it online.


“It’s like showing those beheadings,” he said. “I am not going to watch it. I can’t watch it. I can’t watch any news. All it would do is rip out my heart further than it already it is.”


FOX8 has learned that Flanagan filed a racism complaint against WDBJ.


His LinkedIn account states that he began his career as a news intern in 1993, before working as a reporter and production assistant at various stations in the 1990s.


ABC News is reporting that they have received a 23-page fax from someone claiming to be Bryce Williams. The document has been handed over to investigators, ABC said.


Parker was interviewing and Ward was filming during a live television report at Smith Mountain Lake in Moneta, Virginia. The shooting happened at about 6:45 a.m.


Posted on the Twitter account of “Bryce Williams” just days before the shooting


Flanagan shot himself after being confronted by authorities on Interstate 66 in Virginia. He was flown to the hospital and died at approximately 1:30 p.m.






: Our ND hired and fired VA shooting suspect in FL in 2000.  Fired for bizarre behavior and threatening employees. 


— Heather Myers (@HeatherMyersSD6) 




 








Filed in:
 
 
Topics:
 
, 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage










 




 






Popular








































 






Latest News












































 














































































 







































		1 hour ago	






















 












































 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts


































































Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 56,825 other followers






































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

































