3 students shot, 1 killed, on Sacramento college campus; gunman being sought | Q13 FOX News  


3 students shot, 1 killed, on Sacramento college campus; gunman being sought | Q13 FOX News














Go
Search
























 Search




















 
Menu








































56°






Low 
53°


High 
64°












Sat





					53° 
 68°
					






Sun





					52° 
 74°
					






Mon





					53° 
 74°
					
















 








 




























 








3 students shot, 1 killed, on Sacramento college campus; gunman being sought




Posted 4:53 PM, September 3, 2015, by 
, 
Updated at 08:46pm, September 3, 2015
 




 














 










Please enable Javascript to watch this video








SACRAMENTO, Calif.  — A gunman shot three students, killing one, on the Sacramento City College campus Thursday afternoon.


Rick Brewer, with the school's public information office, confirmed to FOX40 that all of the victims were students.




Dustin Poore of Los Rios police, who patrol the campus, says the shooting Thursday afternoon began as a verbal dispute near the baseball field between a group of men, one of whom pulled out a gun and fired.


One person was killed, and another person was taken to a hospital. Poore says a third victim was only grazed by a bullet and required no treatment. He's being questioned by investigators.


Sacramento city police say the campus and its buildings have been cleared of students and staff. But they did not find the gunman, who they say fled the shooting scene on foot wearing a white T-shirt and cargo shorts.






Police say the campus is on lockdown Thursday night while they search for a suspect with no shirt wearing cargo shorts.


Classes were in session at the college with a student body of about 25,000. The fall semester began Aug. 22.








Update: Three male shooting victims, one pronounced deceased, two vics transported to the hospital, occurred near baseball field on campus.


— Sacramento Police  (@SacPolice) 








Update suspect desc:male pacific islander, no shirt, cargo shorts - we 
will continue to update


— Sacramento Police  (@SacPolice) 




No other details were immediately available. This breaking story will be updated as more information becomes available.


 


 


 








Filed in:
 
 














×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 










Weather Team
Watch the Q13 FOX News weather team for the most useful and accurate forecasts and get weather ready.










 




 






Popular
















































 






Latest News












































 














































































 


























































 
















 




























 












Mobile Apps








































 • 				
 •
		
 
 •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		
 • 
 •
		Powered by 
 












×


Email Alerts










































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































