Two people dead in Cheshire shooting 

Two people dead in Cheshire shooting




















































































































































































 
























50° 
F




Overcast




Hi: 54° F


Lo: 47° F
















 
















Menu




 










News












































Featured:




 
 


Latest Headlines



















	Updated: 
4 mins
 ago








Crews are still working to repair an intersection in the capital city today following a massive water main break last night.


























9:10 am








HARTFORD, Conn. (WTNH) — A Hartford mother heads to court after being charged with manslaughter in her child’s death. 27-year-old Tamara Lee…
























7:52 am


















7:42 am


















9:15 am






















Weather






























 


Current Conditions










50° 
F


Overcast






Feels Like: 
50° F


Wind: 
N 10


Humidity: 
77%


Dewpoint: 
43° F


Sunrise: 
6:48 AM


Sunset: 
6:31 PM






































 






















































































 




Search for:




















50° 
F




Overcast




Hi: 54° F


Lo: 47° F


























Two people dead in Cheshire shooting






Stephanie Simoni, WTNH Reporter



	Published: 
December 16, 2014, 4:37 pm



	Updated: 
December 16, 2014, 11:23 pm











































CHESHIRE, Conn. (WTNH)– Two are found dead in a home on Cheshire’s Cornwall Avenue Tuesday afternoon. 


“I really hope it’s not somebody that I knew,” said neighbor Lina Junaedi. 


“I know so many people up and down this street, so I’m making sure everyone is ok,” said Cheshire’s Daniel Byrd. 


Police said a 911 call came from the home about reports of a shooting.


“There’s no ongoing danger to the community,” said Cheshire Police Chief Neil Dryfe. “We believe we have everyone involved in the incident accounted for.” 


Police said they’re waiting for family to be notified before they’ll identify the deceased. They are releasing limited details about the investigation, but said two adults are dead. While the medical examiner is working to find out their exact cause of death, State Police Major crimes is assisting in the investigation.


When Chief Dryfe was asked if anyone else was home when the shooting happened, he said that’s unclear.


Neighbors say a family of six lived in the home. There were two parents and their four children. 


“The neighbors have been very good with assisting with the immediate family who was here,” said Dryfe. “We have a crisis intervention staff involved with the family right now.”


Neighbors say the family has lived in the home for several years. They’re well-known and well-liked. Everyone we spoke to said it’s tragic, especially at this time of year.


“The family is very nice, if this is the one,” said Junaedi. “They are very, very nice, and very friendly to everybody.”


“When anything like this happens in Cheshire or anywhere, you know nothing good can come out of it and it’s just really sad,” said Byrd.


Cheshire Public Schools Superintendent Greg Florio said schools “will have plans in place to address any concerns” students may have as a result of the incident.  Counseling services will also be available.


Share this:
Like this:
Like
 
Loading...




Advertisement












More Headlines




















Crime News


















Connecticut
















WTNH NEWS8 provides commenting to allow for constructive discussion on the stories we cover. In order to comment here, you acknowledge you have read and agreed to our Terms of Service. Commenters who violate these terms, including use of vulgar language or racial slurs, will be banned. Please be respectful of the opinions of others. If you see an inappropriate comment, please flag it for our moderators to review.
































Advertisement
More Hurricane Joaquin Headlines






















































































































































Most Popular Stories
 
 








































 
 










Advertisement
 






Advertisement
 






Advertisement
















© 2000-2015 LIN Television Corporation, a Media General company. All rights reserved


Powered by 






Sitemap
















Station






















Sign Up for Alerts




Legal




Partners










 






Follow






















 
 
 
 


 


































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			










%d
 bloggers like this:












































 



