Gunman identified; among 10 dead at Umpqua Community College | WTNH Connecticut News 

Gunman identified; among 10 dead at Umpqua Community College | WTNH Connecticut News




















































































































































































 
























50° 
F




Overcast




Hi: 54° F


Lo: 47° F
















 
















Menu




 










News












































Featured:




 
 


Latest Headlines



















	Updated: 
4 mins
 ago








Crews are still working to repair an intersection in the capital city today following a massive water main break last night.


























9:10 am








HARTFORD, Conn. (WTNH) — A Hartford mother heads to court after being charged with manslaughter in her child’s death. 27-year-old Tamara Lee…
























7:52 am


















7:42 am


















9:15 am






















Weather






























 


Current Conditions










50° 
F


Overcast






Feels Like: 
50° F


Wind: 
N 10


Humidity: 
77%


Dewpoint: 
43° F


Sunrise: 
6:48 AM


Sunset: 
6:31 PM






































 






















































































 




Search for:




















50° 
F




Overcast




Hi: 54° F


Lo: 47° F


























Gunman identified; among 10 dead at Umpqua Community College


At least 20 others wounded






KOIN 6 News Staff



	Published: 
October 1, 2015, 2:30 pm



	Updated: 
October 1, 2015, 10:17 pm





































				A patient is wheeled into the Emergency Room at Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, Oregon. Mercy was under extreme stress dealing with victims from the shooting at Umpqua Community College. (Aaron Yost/The News-Review via KOIN)			










Related Coverage























PORTLAND, Ore. (KOIN) — At least 10 people were killed and 7 others injured in a shooting at Umpqua Community College, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin said Thursday night.


Multiple law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation identified the gunman as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer according to WCVB via CNN. 


President Barack Obama spoke during the aftermath of the shooting, saying that the US is becoming numb to mass shootings and that perpetrators have sickness in their minds.


Kortney Moore, a student at Umpqua Community College, said the gunman shot her teacher and asked others in her classroom about their religion before spraying more bullets.


Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin said there was one male shooter and that when officers arrived on scene he fired at them and they engaged in gunfire. He was then neutralized. It is unknown if he is a student.




The first call about the shooting came into the Douglas County Sheriff’s Office at 10:37 a.m.


Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin says authorities responded and exchanged gunfire with the man. He says the shooter died at the scene, but he didn’t say whether the man killed himself or was shot by police.


During a press conference following the incident, Governor Kate Brown said the shooter was a 20-year-old man. She said she was leaving to go to Roseburg to be briefed on the situation.


It is unknown if the gunman was a student at the school. CNN reports 3 pistols and one long-rifle were recovered at the scene.


A student at the college says the gunman shot her teacher and asked others in her classroom about their religion before spraying more bullets.


Eighteen-year-old Kortney Moore of Rogue River tells the Roseburg News-Review newspaper that she was in a writing class at Umpqua Community College when a shot came through a window.


The gunman entered her classroom and told people to get on the ground.


Moore says the man started asking people to stand up and state their religion and then opened fire.

The Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg said they had received 9 patients from the shooting.


PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at Riverbend in Eugene confirmed they received 3 patients via Life Flight medical helicopter. Two of the patients were females. All three had gunshot wounds.


The campus was on lock down after the reports came in. The shooting reportedly started in Snyder Hall.


Senator Jeff Kruse spoke to KOIN 6 about the shooting, saying many facts are unconfirmed and that he had gotten conflicting reports about the shooter’s identity. He said one of the main issues officials faced was that the campus is very rural and the buildings have great distances between each other, so clearing out the buildings was difficult.


He praised the work of the first responders.


Former Umpqua Community College president Joe Olson, who retired in June, says the school has only one security officer on duty at a time, and that person isn’t armed.


Counselors are available at the Douglas County Fair Grounds where students are gathering. About 3,000 students attend the college, where classes began earlier this week after a summer break.


President Barack Obama has been briefed on the situation. At his request, he’ll continue to receive updates throughout the day.


KOIN 6 will have more information when it becomes available.


The Associated Press contributed to this report.












































Share this:
Like this:
Like
 
Loading...




Advertisement












More Headlines




















US National News and Video
























Photo Galleries
















WTNH NEWS8 provides commenting to allow for constructive discussion on the stories we cover. In order to comment here, you acknowledge you have read and agreed to our Terms of Service. Commenters who violate these terms, including use of vulgar language or racial slurs, will be banned. Please be respectful of the opinions of others. If you see an inappropriate comment, please flag it for our moderators to review.
































Advertisement
More Hurricane Joaquin Headlines






















































































































































Most Popular Stories
 
 








































 
 










Advertisement
 






Advertisement
 






Advertisement
















© 2000-2015 LIN Television Corporation, a Media General company. All rights reserved


Powered by 






Sitemap
















Station






















Sign Up for Alerts




Legal




Partners










 






Follow






















 
 
 
 


 


































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address

















				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			










%d
 bloggers like this:












































 



