Oregon Mall Shooting Update: Jacob Tyler Roberts, accused gunman, planned Hawaii move, ex says - CBS News Oregon Mall Shooting Update: Jacob Tyler Roberts, accused gunman, planned Hawaii move, ex says - CBS News




















































GO






















Sign in with


 


 


 


 












 








 






















































By


Crimesider Staff


CBS News


December 13, 2012, 1:18 PM


Oregon Mall Shooting Update: Jacob Tyler Roberts, accused gunman, planned Hawaii move, ex says







                                Jacob Tyler Roberts is seen in this undated photo
                            



                                Personal photo
                            


























   Shares
        


















  Tweets
        








































































Jacob Tyler Roberts, undated photo

                                            Personal photo
                                        
(CBS/AP) PORTLAND, Ore. - To police and witnesses, Jacob Tyler Roberts was a gunman on a mission, shooting numerous rounds from a semiautomatic rifle as he stalked through a Portland mall, ultimately killing two people and seriously injuring another. To Roberts' shocked friends and family, he was just Jake, a happy, easygoing 22-year-old who liked video games and talked about moving to Hawaii.


"Jake was never the violent type," Roberts' ex-girlfriend, Hannah Patricia Sansburn, told ABC News. "His main goal was to make you laugh, smile, make you feel comfortable. You can't reconcile the differences. 


"I hate him for what he did, but I can't hate the person I knew because it was nothing like the person who would go into a mall and go on a rampage," she said.


The Clackamas County sheriff's office said Roberts arrived at the mall with several fully loaded magazines. He parked his 1996 green Volkswagen Jetta in front of Macy's and walked through the store into the mall where he began firing randomly in the food court.


He fatally shot 45-year-old Steven Mathew Forsyth and 54-year-old Cindy Ann Yuille, 54, the sheriff said. Kristina Shevchenko, 15, was wounded and in serious condition Wednesday.


Sansburn said Roberts recently quit his job at a gyro shop in Portland and sold all of his belongings, telling her he was moving to Hawaii. He was supposed to take a flight Saturday but told her he got drunk and missed it.


"And then this happens. ... It makes me think, was he even planning on going to Hawaii?" Sansburn told ABC News.


On a Facebook page that a friend identified as Roberts', he wrote: "I may be young but I have lived one crazy life so far."


"I'm the kind of person that is going to do what I want," he wrote. "There is no reason for another person to tell you what to do, I'm the conductor of my choo choo train."


He added he was "a bit of an adrenaline junkie" who was "just looking to meet new people and see the world."


A former neighbor of Roberts said he liked to play video games and never seemed troubled.


"We knocked on each other's door every morning. Every day to hang out, to talk," said Samantha Bennett, who added she went to middle school with Roberts but wasn't close to him until he moved in with a girlfriend across the hall from her at an apartment complex in summer 2011.


"If me and my boyfriend were fighting, he was there to talk to me," Bennett said. "We would go to the bar together. I don't get it."


Bennett said Roberts once showed her a black handgun that she believed he purchased legally. He then dropped out of sight earlier this year, and his phone was disconnected.


Neighbor Bobbi Bates said Roberts recently rented a basement room in a modest, single-story Portland home and hadn't lived there long. She said she saw him leave at 1:30 p.m. Tuesday wearing a dark jacket and jeans, carrying a guitar case.


Police said the suspect had stolen an AR-15 rifle from someone he knew.


The first 911 call came in at 3:29 p.m. Officers arrived a minute later. Instead of waiting for SWAT teams, police immediately entered the crowded mall.


Police told people inside to put their hands in the air, to make sure an armed person wasn't among them. Police spent hours clearing the 1.4 million-square-foot mall, as some workers and shoppers continued to hide in fear.


Wearing a hockey-style face mask and dark clothing, Roberts fled along a mall corridor and into a back hallway, down stairs and into a corner where police found him dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot, authorities said.


Clackamas County Sheriff Craig Roberts said the fact that more people weren't killed was due to several factors. The suspect's gun jammed at one point; the mall implemented an immediate lockdown; and a large number of officers arrived on-scene quickly, "curtailing the suspect's ability to move around the mall."


"Ten thousand people in the mall at one time kept a level head. They got themselves out of the mall. They helped others get out, and there are just a number of heroes that took the time to help people get out," the sheriff said. "It was really about a full group of people coming together to make a difference."









                                        © 2012 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
                    
























   Shares
        


















  Tweets
        
















































































Featured in Crimesider
















 




Popular
















 








Follow Us


 
 


 
 






















Read


Story




Bipartisan Senators unveil criminal justice overhaul






 


























Read


Story




Life as a Public Defender






 


























Read


Story




Lawsuit: Ill. police arrest man as retaliation






 


























Read


Story




Cops: Fla. security guard shot alleged shoplifter






 


























Read


Story




Attempted murder charge in S.D. principal's shooting






 


















Watch CBSN Live






Watch CBS News anytime, anywhere with the new 24/7 digital news network.  Stream CBSN live or on demand for FREE on your TV, computer, tablet, or smartphone.
































CBSNews.com




















CBS Interactive




















Follow Us
























Copyright © 2015 CBS Interactive Inc.
All rights reserved.






Search














for Android
®
for iPad
®
for iPhone
®





