KEZI.com |  Officials React to UCC Shooting 

KEZI.com |  Officials React to UCC Shooting




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































UCC Shooting: How to Locate Family Members
by Laura Campbell


UCC Shooting: 911 Dispatch Call
































Officials React to UCC Shooting












Officials React to UCC Shooting












By 
KEZI 9 News
 Oct. 1, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




 Map




















 












 










 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- Federal and state officials are reacting to the shooting at Umpqua Community college that left 13 people dead and 20 people injured.




Senator Wyden said: “Oregonians everywhere want Roseburg to know we're praying for them.”




Statement from Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum: “I am heartbroken by the magnitude of today’s event at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. In Oregon, we are a family, and today is unspeakably difficult. Our hearts go out to all of the families affected by another senseless gun tragedy.  As always, Oregon’s first responders, medical community and law enforcement have stepped up without hesitation to assist.  The Oregon Department of Justice will provide any additional resources that we can. I have members of my Criminal Justice and Crime Victims’ Services divisions on the scene offering assistance to law enforcement, students and families.”


















House Speaker Tina Kotek said, "Today's tragic shooting at Umpqua Community College is heartbreaking for all Oregonians. My thoughts are with the victims, their families, and the first responders in Roseburg today."




Oregon’s Senator Jeff Merkley released the following statement: “I am absolutely heartbroken by today’s news. I have been in touch with local officials to express my deepest condolences and offer my assistance in any way possible and I will continue to monitor this tragedy and its response. The hearts and thoughts of all Oregonians are with the victims, their families and the entire UCC and Roseburg communities.”




Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) said, “Today’s shooting in Roseburg is a heartbreaking tragedy, and my thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. I want to extend my deepest gratitude to Roseburg’s first responders for their work in responding to the event. Once we know more about what happened today, I plan to work with my colleagues in Congress to find ways to prevent tragedies such as these.”




Representative Knute Buehler (R-Bend) issued the following statement: “As someone who grew up in Roseburg and experienced many special times as a youth at Umpqua Community College, I am devastated by the horrific events that took place there today. I stand together with Oregonians across the state in offering my most heartfelt thoughts and prayers. There will be very difficult days ahead, but I know the people of the Roseburg community, as we always do, will emerge stronger and more united than ever before.”




House Republican Leader Mike McLane (R-Powell Butte) issued the following statement: “I am deeply saddened by the terrible tragedy that took place today at Umpqua Community College. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims, our first responders and the people of Roseburg. Oregonians across the state are united in grief with the Roseburg community and resolved to bring help and healing to those impacted by today’s horrible events.”




Statement from Dr. Patty Scott, President Southwestern Oregon Community College: Coos Bay, OR -- All of us at Southwestern Oregon Community College are deeply saddened by the incident at Umpqua Community College. We want to share our heartfelt condolences and support with the campus, the staff and faculty, students and families, and the community of Roseburg.




Southwestern and our sister colleges in Oregon have been proactive in training for campus shooting events. At Southwestern, we continue to take measures with staff and faculty to prepare for such an event.




Specifically at Southwestern, the Coos Bay Police Department provided an officer to come to the Coos Bay campus today to support our security department and increase the protective presence. Our own Southwestern Security Staff also is increasing its presence and visibility on campus.




We are reaching out to our students, staff and faculty. We’ve encouraged individuals who need to leave work and campus to comfort loved ones to immediately take care of their needs.  The Southwestern Counseling department is available and will continue to be available to assist our students, staff and faculty, who need support in dealing with this tragic event at UCC.




Community colleges provide access to everyone who seeks learning. Providing that open access, puts us at additional risks for such events, so we take our preparations seriously. All of the preparations and thought, however, do not completely prepare us for what can take place.




Community colleges exist to help people pursue education to improve and enrich their lives. Even in the wake of such tragic events as a campus shooting, our mission must continue to carry us forward.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













