KEZI.com |  Small Dog Attacked Near Umpqua Community College 

KEZI.com |  Small Dog Attacked Near Umpqua Community College




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Small Dog Attacked Near Umpqua Community College












Small Dog Attacked Near Umpqua Community College












By 
Amber Wilmarth
 Sep. 17, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- The Douglas County Sheriff's Office is working to quarantine two German Shepherds, after the dogs attacked a smaller dog and bit an elderly man.




The incident happened on Sunday night at around 7:30 p.m. near the Umpqua Community College parking lot. The Sheriff's Office says a Roseburg couple was walking their small dog when two German Shepherds ran up and attacked it.




The Douglas County Environmental Health Program says the two dogs are apparently owned by a transient woman.


















The Sheriff's Office says they've been in contact with her and are working to get her dogs quarantined.




"We can accomplish that in a couple of different ways. We can take the dog into custody and keep if confined for the required period or a lot of times we get cooperative owners and we just have them quarantine the dog at home, and typically that's how we handle it," said Officer Dwes Hutson.




The quarantine is to make sure the German Shepherds don't have rabies.




The owner of the little dog, a 75-year-old man, was bitten while trying to break up the fight. The Sheriff's Office says he suffered minor injuries and adds that the small dog is recovering.




The Sheriff's Office says citations are issued on a case by case basis depending on the violation. They say at this time, no citations have been issued.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













