KEZI.com |  Possible Drowning on Umpqua River 

KEZI.com |  Possible Drowning on Umpqua River




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Possible Drowning on Umpqua River












Possible Drowning on Umpqua River












By 
KEZI 9 News
 Apr. 13, 2015










































 Photos




 Map














 










 












DOUGLAS COUNTY, Ore. -- The Douglas County Sheriff's Office is searching for a Sutherlin resident who may have drowned in the Umpqua River.




On Sunday around 11:30 a.m., emergency crews responded to a water rescue near 11000 block of Garden Valley Road.




The sheriff's office says two people were in a canoe on the river in a section known as Crow Rapids when the canoe capsized.  Deputies say there were life jackets in the boat but neither of the them was wearing one.


















Daniel M. Kissinger, of Sutherlin, tried to pull Shaun C. Laughlin onto the boat, but was unable to reach the boat and then swam to the shore.  Deputies say when Kissinger turned around, he did not see Laughlin.  Kissinger flagged down a passing driver for help.




Searchers found the canoe, a tackle box and one life jacked. They say Laughlin is still missing and presumed drowned. They say they will continue to search for Laughlin on Monday.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













