KEZI.com |  Locals on Umpqua River safety 

KEZI.com |  Locals on Umpqua River safety




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Locals on Umpqua River safety












Locals on Umpqua River safety












By 
 May. 26, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- A tragic weekend in Roseburg, after emergency crews pulled the bodies of two teenagers from the South Umpqua River Sunday morning.




Douglas County Fire District No. 2 says tragedies similar to this happen nearly every year in the Umpqua River. They say that the two teens did know how to swim, but that the cold temperature of the water and fatigue may have played roles in the double drowning.




The Douglas County Sheriff's Office says 16 year old Dustin Conopa and 17 year old Froylan Carrion-Estrada drowned in the river near Charter Oaks Drive Saturday night.


















Investigators say the teens were at a birthday party and at the party, there was a challenge to swim across the river. When one of the teens began to struggle, the other went back to help him; neither one resurfaced. Their bodies were recovered at 10:45 Sunday morning.




Locals say they are all too familiar with the dangers of the river. They say they try to take extra precautions before getting into the water.




"Recently, me some friends have started kayaking. We're definitely making sure we're wearing our life jackets if we're out on our kayaks. We have whistles attached so we can communicate in case something were to happen," says Hannah Kasal.




Kasal grew up in the Roseburg area and says she has been visiting the rivers every summer all her life.




She was out with friends Monday looking possibly take a swim, but said the water was too cold after they checked the water temperature.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













