KEZI.com |  Roseburg Man Helps Stop Shooter 

KEZI.com |  Roseburg Man Helps Stop Shooter




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Roseburg Man Helps Stop Shooter












Roseburg Man Helps Stop Shooter












By 
Amber Wilmarth
 Aug. 22, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- A violent attack on a high speed train in Europe could have ended much differently, if not for the swift actions of a Roseburg man and his two friends.




Alek Skarlatos, a National Guard soldier, was on vacation with two friends when they decided to catch a train to France. Part way into their trip, things took a scary turn when a gunman got on the train. That's when the three friends jumped into action, stopping him before he could do any serious harm.




"I knew we had to do something. Or he was just going to kill people. He wasn’t shooting at the time, so I knew it was a good time to do it," said Skarlatos.


















The 22-year-old along with two friends, Spencer and Anthony, were three days into a European vacation, starting in Amsterdam.




On their way to Paris, their trip turned into a nightmare, when they heard a gunshot and glass breaking.




"I looked back and saw a guy with an AK and a hand gun entering our cab. Spencer and I ducked down," said Skarlatos.




Skarlatos says the shooter, a 26-year-old Moroccan man, had emerged from a train bathroom and says their cab was the closest to the man.




"I said to Spencer, 'let’s go get him.' And Spencer ran up and got at the guy about 10 meters away. And I followed right behind him, grabbed the hand gun and wrestled it away from him," said Skarlatos.




Skarlatos returned home two months ago from a yearlong deployment in Afghanistan. His parents say they couldn't be more proud of his heroic actions.




Three people were hurt during the ordeal, none of the injuries are considered life threatening. Meantime, authorities are investigating the gunman's motive.








a violent attack on a high speed train in europe could have ended much differently -- if not for the swift actions of a roseburg man and his two friends.




alek skarlatos , a national guard soldier... was on vacation with two friends when they decided to catch a train to france.




but, part way into their trip...




things took a scary turn...




when a gunman got on the train...




but, the three friends jumped into action --




stopping him before he could do any serious harm.




<skarlatos, "i knew we had to do something. or he was just gonna kill people. he wasnt shooting at the time - so i knew it was a good time to do it.">




hailed a hero...




22 year old alekskarlatos..




recounts the minutes leading up to an attack on a train bound for france.




the roseburg man..




along with two friends -- spencer and anthony..




were three days into a european vacation.. starting in amsterdam.




on their way to paris --- their trip turned into a nightmare...




when they heard a gunshot and glass breaking.




<skarlatos, "i looked back and saw a guy with an ak and a hand gun entering our cab. spencer and i ducked down.">




skarlatos says the shooter, a 26 year old moroccan man, had emerged from a train bathroom --




and says their cab was the closest to the man.




<skarlatos, "spencer and i ducked down. so i said to spencer lets go get em and spencer ran up and got at the guy about 10 meters away. and i followed right behind him - grabbed the hand gun and wrestled it away from him.">




this is video from a train passenger... shows the suspect on the floor with his hands and feet tied.




<skarlatos, "once i cleared the ak, i found that the primer was struck -- which means he tried to fire it but it was a bad primer.">




skarlatos returned home two months ago from a year long deployment in afghanistan.




his parents say they couldn't be more proud of his heroic actions.




<karen, "and i don't doubt for a minute that when push comes to shove, alek could handle it.">




<karen, "the three of them in our eyes are just heroes."




three people were hurt during the ordeal-- none of the injuries are considered life threatening.




meantime, authorities are investigating the gunman's motive.




 


















































Related Stories


























































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













