KEZI.com |  Oregon Guardsman Who Helped Stop Train Attack Returns Home 

KEZI.com |  Oregon Guardsman Who Helped Stop Train Attack Returns Home




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Oregon Guardsman Who Helped Stop Train Attack Returns Home












Oregon Guardsman Who Helped Stop Train Attack Returns Home












By 
The Associated Press
 Aug. 31, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - The Oregon Army National Guard specialist who helped stop a gunman on a train bound for Paris has returned home.




The Oregonian reports that 22-year-old Alek Skarlatos of Roseburg arrived in Oregon Sunday night. He says he's looking forward to returning to normal life and plans to keep a low profile.




Ten days ago, Skarlatos was on a high-speed train passing through Belgium with his childhood friends when the three men worked together to stop a terrorist attack. They helped subdue Ayoub El-Khazzani, a man with ties to radical Islam who was carrying a handgun and an assault weapon on the train Friday.


















In the days since the attack, Skarlatos has been awarded France's highest honor, appeared on television and received international attention.




The experience, he said, has been "pretty unreal."


















































Related Stories


























































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













