KEZI.com |  Roseburg Hero Honored in France 

KEZI.com |  Roseburg Hero Honored in France




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Roseburg Hero Honored in France












Roseburg Hero Honored in France












By 
Amber Wilmarth
 Aug. 24, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- A Roseburg man receives France's highest honor Monday, for helping to stop a potential massacre on a Paris bound train.




The French President awarded him and three other men the Legion of Honor after they subdued a gunman on board the packed train.




22-year-old Alek Skarlatos, a soldier in the Oregon National Guard in Roseburg, says he's just thankful to be alive. He says he's extremely grateful for the response he and his two longtime friends are getting from France and from the leaders around the world.


















It all started on Friday when Skarlatos says he and his two friends, Spencer Stone and Anthony Sadler, were on vacation and a heavily armed gunman boarded their train.




The three friends and one British citizen, Chris Norman, jumped into action, tackling the shooter.




The French President thanked them for their courage, which, he says, saved lives.




A lawyer for the alleged suspect, identified as a Moroccan national claims he only intended to rob passengers, not carry out a terror attack.




Skarlatos and Stone, both U.S. service members, may be in line for an additional award. A Pentagon Spokesperson says that the military is considering giving them an award for their heroic actions as well.


















































Related Stories


























































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













