KEZI.com |  Roseburg Hero Joins Dancing with the Stars 

KEZI.com |  Roseburg Hero Joins Dancing with the Stars




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Roseburg Hero Joins Dancing with the Stars












Roseburg Hero Joins Dancing with the Stars












By 
Amber Wilmarth
 Sep. 2, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- The Roseburg man who was transformed into in an international icon when he helped stopped an alleged terrorist, is about to raise his profile again.




Alek Skarlatos will appear on the upcoming season of Dancing with the Stars. The announcement was made on Good Morning America Wednesday.




Skarlatos has become known around the world, after he and several others stopped an alleged armed terrorist on a train bound for Paris nearly two weeks ago.


















Skarlatos's family in Roseburg says they're so excited to see him hit the dance floor. Karen Skarlatos is his Stepmother. She says Skarlatos checked with his two friends, also on that train, before accepting the position.




"I think it's going to be great and it's great fun for him. I think he's putting it in the proper perspective. He knows he's going to have a good time and he's not taking himself too seriously, remembering who he is," said Karen.




Karen says Skarlatos isn't a big dancer, so they're excited to see his first performance. She adds that she and Skarlatos's father are very proud of him.




Karen says that she and most of their family will be watching when the show premieres September 14th.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













