KEZI.com |  Roseburg Man Receives French Legion of Honor Medal 

KEZI.com |  Roseburg Man Receives French Legion of Honor Medal




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Roseburg Man Receives French Legion of Honor Medal












Roseburg Man Receives French Legion of Honor Medal












By 
 Aug. 24, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












PARIS (AP) - Three Americans and a British man who took down a heavily armed man on a passenger train speeding through Belgium have received France's top honor.




French President Francois Hollande on Monday pinned the Legion of Honor medal on U.S. Airman Spencer Stone, National Guardsman Alek Skarlatos, and their years-long friend Anthony Sadler, who subdued the gunman as he moved through the train with an assault rifle strapped to his bare chest. The British businessman, Chris Norman, also jumped into the fray.




Hollande said the men showed "that faced with terror, we have the power to resist. You also gave a lesson in courage, in will, and thus in hope."


















The gunman, identified as 26-year-old Moroccan Ayoub El-Khazzani, is detained and being questioned by French counterterrorism police outside Paris.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













