KEZI.com |  UPDATE: Roseburg Man Involved in Stopping Train Shooting 

KEZI.com |  UPDATE: Roseburg Man Involved in Stopping Train Shooting




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































UPDATE: Roseburg Man Involved in Stopping Train Shooting












UPDATE: Roseburg Man Involved in Stopping Train Shooting












By 
Amber Wilmarth
 Aug. 21, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- A violent attack on a high speed train in Europe could have ended much differently, if not for a Roseburg man traveling with his two childhood friends.




In his first U.S. interview, Alek Skarlatos, who's also a part of the Oregon National Guard, says that he knew that he had to do something when a gunman entered their cab.




The 22-year-old was on vacation in Europe with two childhood friends, Spencer Stone and Anthony Sadler. He says Stone and Sadler were asleep when he heard a gunshot and glass breaking.


















He says that's when the shooter went into their cab. Skarlatos says he and Stone jumped into action and took the suspect down.




"I looked back and saw a guy with an AK and a hand gun entering our cab, so Spencer and I ducked down. I said to Spencer, let’s go get him and Spencer ran up and got at the guy about 10 meters away and grabbed him. I followed right behind him, grabbed the hand gun and wrestled it away from him,” said Skarlatos.




Stone is in the hospital recovering from some cuts, but Skarlatos says he's in good spirits.




Skarlatos adds that after all this happened, he found out one the suspect's guns didn't go off.




"Once I cleared the AK, I found that the primer was struck by the firing pin, which means he tried to fire it, but it had a bad primer, so it didn’t go off,” said Skarlatos.




Skarlatos just returned from Afghanistan after a yearlong deployment about 2 months ago, and says his military training kicked in after the incident.




Three people were hurt in the incident. None of the injuries are considered life threatening. The suspects is a 26-year-old Moroccan.




The White House also issued a statement Friday night, saying it’s clear their heroic actions may have prevented a far worse tragedy.


















































Related Stories


























































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













