KEZI.com |  Students and Community Members Gather at Stewart Park for Vigil 

KEZI.com |  Students and Community Members Gather at Stewart Park for Vigil




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































10 Dead in Shooting at Umpqua Community College


UCC Shooting: Father of Victim Speaks Out
by Marisa Woloszyn
































Students and Community Members Gather at Stewart Park for Vigil












Students and Community Members Gather at Stewart Park for Vigil












By 
Amber Wilmarth
 Oct. 2, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- Community members and Umpqua Community College students gathered at Stewart Park Thursday night for a vigil. People gathered to show support for one another.




Chris Jewell is a student at Umpqua Community College and a soldier in the National Guard. Jewell was on campus when the shooting took place. He says he was in the veteran's center with several other people when someone came by and said there was an active shooter on campus.




"At that point, myself and about 15 to 20 other individuals secured ourselves in the back of the building. We were there for about 45 minutes until law enforcement came and escorted us out. They did an effective and efficient job,” Jewell said.


















Jewell says students were then bused out to the Douglas County Fair Grounds.




He helped hand out waters. He also wanted to add he's extremely grateful to the first responders.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













