Chris Mintz: 5 Fast Facts You Need to Know | Heavy.com 

Chris Mintz: 5 Fast Facts You Need to Know | Heavy.com














































































































































































 




















































Chris Mintz: 5 Fast Facts You Need to Know






Published
 
1:37 am EDT, October 2, 2015






Updated
 10:00 am EDT, October 2, 2015			




 



							By 






16.4k		




























Chris Mintz was shot five times at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. (Facebook)


An Army veteran was shot five times while 
 Thursday morning,


Chris Mintz, 30, 
 with serious injuries. The gunman, 
, 26, killed nine people and wounded Mintz and nine others before he was fatally shot during a gun fight with police.


Mintz was shot in the upper back, left hand, abdomen and each leg, his 
 but he is in stable condition.


Here’s what you need to know about Mintz:




1. He Moved to Oregon After Serving in the Army for 10 Years


Mintz served in the Army for 10 years, his family says. (Facebook)


Chris Mintz moved to Oregon a few years ago after serving in the Army, where he was based at Fort Lewis in Washington state and was deployed overseas, his cousin, Derek Bourgeois,






Here's your hero! Chris Mintz, Army vet used to live in Tacoma. He rushed the gunman and survived being shot 7 times 


— John R. Knicely (@KnicelyKIRO7) 




Originally from Randleman, North Carolina, Mintz is living in Oregon to raise his son and is in his second year at Umpqua Community College. He also fought as an amateur mixed martial arts fighter in Oregon. Bourgeois said he isn’t surprised his cousin stood in front of the shooter.


“It sounds like something he would do,” Bourgeois he told The Daily Beast.


A friend posted on Mintz’s Facebook page for him, saying, “This is Chris’s friend, Chris asked me to thank everyone for their support, he is grateful and keeping our community and all victims in his thoughts.”


Ten people were killed and seven others wounded in a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, authorities say.




2. His Family Says He Is Going to Have to Learn to Walk Again








































Mintz underwent surgery for leg injuries on Thursday, his cousin said on Facebook. He was shot five times, but the bullets missed vital organs, his cousin, Derek Bourgeois, 






Today my cousin Chris Mintz stood in front of the shooter in Oregon and took 5 shots on his sons birthday. I'm… 


— Derek Bourgeois (@dbourgeois23) 




“He is very upset that people had to die and he wishes that he could have saved everyone. That was about all he was able to get out before he broke down. Hang in there brother,” Bourgeois said in a Facebook post after talking with Mintz.


“He could have very easily died,” Wanda Mintz, Chris’ aunt, 
 “I really think that if he wasn’t such a strong, young guy, he may have died.”




Chris Mintz  was shot five times rushing the gunman at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. See pictures of the hero, student, father, and Army vet here.




3. He Was Celebrating His Son’s 6th Birthday on Thursday 


(Facebook)


Mintz was celebrating his son’s sixth birthday on Thursday. He posted on Facebook about it just hours before the shooting.


His 
 that after he was shot, he looked up at the gunman and said “it’s my son’s birthday today,” and was shot again.


His aunt, Wanda Mintz, 
that Chris Mintz had talked to his father in North Carolina as he was walking into class. 


“My brother talked to Chris on the phone while Chris was walking into school to tell him to remind his grandson that grandpa said, ‘Happy Birthday,’” Wanda Mintz told the news station.


4. He Enlisted in the Army After Graduating From High School in North Carolina


Mintz posted this “throwback” photo from his high school football days. (Facebook)


After graduating from Randleman High School in 2003, Mintz enlisted in the Army.


He was a football player at Randleman. His family still lives in North Carolina.




5. It Was His Fourth Day Back in Classes at Umpqua






Army vet Chris Mintz tried to stop the shooter In Oregon. He got shot 5 times. 
 for his recover! 
 
 


— Jonas Christensen (@JonasChr88) 




Mintz was in just his fourth day of classes back at Umpqua Community College. 


His aunt says he her brother, Mintz’s father, had spent the week before in Oregon with his son and grandson, 


Mintz was working at the local YMCA in Oregonand was studying to be a fitness trainer, his cousin 


The Umpqua Community College shooting may have started in professor Larry Levine's classroom. Find out more about the professor here. 




Tom Cleary


is a reporter and editor for 
. Tom was a breaking news reporter at the 
 and an editor at the 
 and 
. He can be reached by email at 
. Follow him on Twitter 
.




October 2, 2015 10:00 am
 
































Related Items
 






Related posts from this category


















Leave a comment








Leave a Reply 










Enter your comment here...










Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:








































 






Email 
(Address never made public)








Name








Website






























 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Twitter account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Facebook account. 
( 
 / 
 )


























 You are commenting using your Google+ account. 
( 
 / 
 )












Connecting to %s










 
Notify me of new comments via email.
 
Notify me of new posts via email.


 








 







			1 comment		












 
Anonymous
 
says:
 












”>>Look Here Now…my neighbor’s sister-in-law makes $68 /hour on the internet . She has ℬeen fired for ten months ℬut last month her income was $18319 just working on the internet for a few hours. hop over to here………{{{{:{{{{{{{{{{{…….korta.nu/Mv8…….Copy Now




 




























	Copyright © 2015 Heavy, Inc. All rights reserved. Powered by 








Related posts from this category



































































