KEZI.com |  Community Members Raise Awareness About Parkinson's 

KEZI.com |  Community Members Raise Awareness About Parkinson's




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Community Members Raise Awareness About Parkinson's












Community Members Raise Awareness About Parkinson's












By 
Amber Wilmarth
 Sep. 20, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












EUGENE, Ore. -- Community members came together in Eugene Sunday, to raise awareness about Parkinson's disease.




The 11th annual "Sole Support for Parkinson's Awareness and Fundraiser Walk" was held at Alton Baker Park. There was a 1k and 5k walk.




Laurie Watts says her father has Parkinson's disease and says this event raises money for the Parkinson’s Resources of Oregon.


















"The Parkinson's Resources of Oregon is a fantastic organization and they raise funds from donations only. So it's events like this that they bring everybody together and raise money and that’s what pays for support groups and the different classes and resources for those with Parkinson's disease,” said Watts.




Watts says the organization offers different Parkinson’s programs and services locally, including exercise classes, counseling, and support groups for caregivers.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













