KEZI.com |  9 Killed in Church Shooting 

KEZI.com |  9 Killed in Church Shooting




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































9 Killed in Church Shooting












9 Killed in Church Shooting












By 
Brian Richardson
 Jun. 18, 2015










































 Video




 Photos












 












 












UPDATE 5:40 a.m.




 




CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) - Police in Charleston, South Carolina have released photos of the suspect they believe opened fire in a historic black church last night, killing six women and three men, including the pastor of Emanuel AME Church.


 


The photos, taken from surveillance video, are also of a vehicle police believe the gunman used.


 


Authorities say a white man in his early 20s, 5' 9" with sandy blonde hair and wearing a distinctive sweatshirt, walked into the historically black Emanuel AME Church during a prayer service and stayed for nearly an hour before he started shooting.


















 




CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) - Police in Charleston, South Carolina have released photos of the suspect they believe opened fire in a historic black church last night, killing six women and three men, including the pastor of Emanuel AME Church.




 
The photos, taken from surveillance video, are also of a vehicle police believe the gunman used.




Authorities say a white man in his early 20s, 5' 9" with sandy blonde hair and wearing a distinctive sweatshirt, walked into the historically black Emanuel AME Church during a prayer service and stayed for nearly an hour before he started shooting.




- - - -




CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) - The mayor of Charleston, South Carolina says he believes it was a hate crime.
    
A man described as white, about 21 years old with sandy blonde hair, walked into a historic black church and opened fire Wednesday night.
    
Eight people were found dead at Emanuel AME Church in downtown Charleston. Another person died at a hospital.
    
Police say the shooting happened during a prayer meeting.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













