KEZI.com |  Cottage Grove Shooting Suspect Arrested  

KEZI.com |  Cottage Grove Shooting Suspect Arrested 




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































First Supermoon Eclipse Since 1982
by Grace Lim


Friends Say LCSO Deputy Shot Is In Good Spirits
by Grace Lim
































Cottage Grove Shooting Suspect Arrested 












Cottage Grove Shooting Suspect Arrested 












By 
Grace Lim
 Sep. 26, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












COTTAGE GROVE, Ore.-- The Lane County Sheriff's Office has arrested the suspect wanted for shooting a deputy Friday night. He's identified as 38 year old Carlos Roa, of Cottage Grove. He was taken into custody at 2:30am Saturday.




Deputies responded to shots fired near the 75000 block of London Road at 7:50pm Friday. When deputies approached the property, investigators say Roa fired at them, striking one deputy. Deputies returned fire and Roa fled on foot. Officers found Roa in the same area as the shooting incident with an apparent gunshot wound. He was transported to the hospital.




Investigators don't believe there any other suspects and say there are no ongoing threats to the community. The injured deputy is an 18 year veteran with the sheriff's office. He was treated and is in stable condition.
































































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













