KEZI.com |  Cottage Grove Residents Asking Questions About Shooting 

KEZI.com |  Cottage Grove Residents Asking Questions About Shooting




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Cottage Grove Residents Asking Questions About Shooting












Cottage Grove Residents Asking Questions About Shooting












By 
Chenue Her
 May. 4, 2015










































 Video




















 












COTTAGE GROVE, Ore. -- The Lane County Sheriff's Office is now on day three of a shooting investigation that happened in Cottage Grove over the weekend.




The investigation continues on the 1600 block of Curry Avenue and the sheriff's office isn't releasing many details.




The crime tape and law enforcement vehicles no longer swarmed the neighborhood Monday but investigators are still trying to figure out what happened.


















They say they responded to reports of gunshots just after 6:00 p.m. Saturday night.




When they arrived, they found one man with gunshot wounds and another man dead near a location of a possible suspect. Neighbors say they still have questions and want answers as to what happened on their quiet street.




"I'm just, I don't know, really confused on what's going on, why, and who shot who," said resident, Kristine Bird.




The sheriff's office says they ancticipate it will be a few more days before they release more information. 




Cottage Grove Police and Oregon State Police are also helping in the investigation.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













