KEZI.com |  Fatal, Double Shooting in Cottage Grove  

KEZI.com |  Fatal, Double Shooting in Cottage Grove 




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Fatal, Double Shooting in Cottage Grove 












Fatal, Double Shooting in Cottage Grove 












By 
Cyd Dutcher
 May. 3, 2015










































 Photos














 












COTTAGE GROVE, Ore. -- Cottage Grove Police say one man is dead and another is in the hospital following a double shooting. The situation started just after 6:00 p.m. Saturday night, near the corner of Pritchett Place and Curry Avenue.




Police weren't releasing many details about the circumstances of the shooting, and they didn't call either one of the men a victim or a suspect.




Little is known about the man who died, but we've learned the man who was injured was taken by helicopter to a Portland hospital.


















Family and friends of the wounded man say he was shot in the eye and in the arm. They also say the two men knew each other.




"We know him, but we never expected anything like this," said Heather Hoffman, the daughter-in-law of the wounded man.




"They are friends. I know that for a fact," said Mike Burney, a friend of the wounded man.  "They lived across the street from each other for many years. They were always just best buddies, I'd guess you'd say, but don't know what caused this."




Police from several area law enforcement agencies responded to the scene. The Lane County Sheriff's Office is leading the investigation.




Police planned to stay on scene through the night Sauturday, continuing to look into what happened.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













