KEZI.com |  Flags to be Flown at Half-Staff in Honor of Chattanooga Shootings Victims 

KEZI.com |  Flags to be Flown at Half-Staff in Honor of Chattanooga Shootings Victims




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Flags to be Flown at Half-Staff in Honor of Chattanooga Shootings Victims












Flags to be Flown at Half-Staff in Honor of Chattanooga Shootings Victims












By 
KEZI 9 News
 Jul. 21, 2015










































 Video




 Photos












 












 












SALEM, Ore. -- Governor Kate Brown has ordered flags lowered to half-staff at all public institutions from Tuesday, July 21 until sunset on Saturday, July 25 in honor of the victims of the Chattanooga shootings, at request of President Obama.




"It is becoming all too frequent that we mourn lives lost to gun violence within the borders of our country," Governor Brown said Tuesday. "On behalf of Oregonians, I send condolences to the loved ones of Sgt. Carson A. Holmquist; Petty Officer 2nd Class Randall Smith; Gunnery Sgt. Thomas J. Sullivan; Lance Cpl. Squire K. Wells; and Staff Sgt. David A. Wyatt. These victims were fathers, sons, and friends, and their untimely deaths are tragic."




































































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













