KEZI.com |  Officer Involved Shooting Sparks Change at EPD 

KEZI.com |  Officer Involved Shooting Sparks Change at EPD




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Officer Involved Shooting Sparks Change at EPD












Officer Involved Shooting Sparks Change at EPD












By 
Brian Richardson
 Apr. 30, 2015










































 Photos














 












EUGENE, Ore. -- Eugene police are exploring changes after the deadly officer involved shooting that left a veteran dead.




An officer shot and killed Brian Babb at a Bethel area home on March 30. Police were responding to a report of an armed suicidal man. Police say Babb pointed a gun towards an officer. That's when an officer shot and killed the 49-year-old.




The Lane County District Attorney is still looking into the shooting and is expected to make a ruling on the case.


















In the meantime, the Eugene Police Department says it's evaluated how it handles responding to incidents involving veterans.




In a letter to Eugene City Manager Jon Ruiz, Chief Pete Kerns outlined these changes: 




*   After the incident, I met with Brian’s family members to provide the few details that were releasable at the time that would help explain how he died.




*   Our department’s senior staff team met with a representative from the Veteran’s Administration.  The point of our discussion with the VA was to ask how the incident could be used to encourage people in crisis to seek help and to ask what we should be considering in the evaluation of our response.




*   We also met with a group comprised of representatives from the Vet Center and the Lane County Veterans Court.  The Vet Center provides VA services to all combat veterans and the Veterans court is a State court tailored to the needs of veterans. The objective of the meeting was to ask for advice as we learn from this experience.  We asked how best to engage with the local military community to hear their fears, concerns and recommendations so that they can inform our process.




*   We are coordinating with the Vet Center to plan for ways, either in the listening session model or others, to effectively connect with our local military community and to learn from it.




*   Mark Gissiner will be a member of the shooting review board.




*   We are looking for a use-of-force expert to be a member of the board who has expertise in police response to veterans in crisis.




*   We have scheduled training for May in-service on the subject of Police Interaction with Veterans that will be taught by members of the Vet Center.




There is no timetable on when the Lane Co. DA could make a ruling on the shooting.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













