KEZI.com |  Two Dead Following Shooting in S. Eugene 

KEZI.com |  Two Dead Following Shooting in S. Eugene




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Two Dead Following Shooting in S. Eugene












Two Dead Following Shooting in S. Eugene












By 
KEZI 9 News
 Aug. 28, 2015










































 Photos




 Map




































McKendrick and McClean are blocked off. We're told Eugene police are still searching for shooter.
 






 










 












EUGENE, Ore.— Two men are dead following an apparent murder-suicide in south Eugene, however details surrounding the deadly encounter remain limited.




Police responded to reports of shots fired around 3:30 p.m. Friday, at a home on the 2100 block of McLean Blvd. They found a man dead in the road. Paramedics dragged him down the street as they tried to administer aid.




Eugene police locked down the area, bring in SWAT and a crisis negotiation team. Residents were not allowed to return home. Police told others to stay inside their homes as they tried convince the suspect to come outside. Officers could be heard throughout the area using a loud speaker, trying to convince the suspect to come outside.


















Investigators later used a robotic camera to enter the home and around 10:40 had announced there was no danger to the public. Police entered the home and say they found the suspect dead of an apparent suicide, however a medical examiner will have to confirm the cause of death. Police say they never fired any shots.




Investigators did not release any details about the circumstances of how the original shooting occured. They say the suspect chose this target specifically and intended to harm him. Police have not identified the suspect or the victim, nor did they explain their possible connection.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













