KEZI.com |  Teen Gets 10 Years for Gang Shooting Outside Portland School 

KEZI.com |  Teen Gets 10 Years for Gang Shooting Outside Portland School




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Teen Gets 10 Years for Gang Shooting Outside Portland School












Teen Gets 10 Years for Gang Shooting Outside Portland School












By 
The Associated Press
 May. 14, 2015










































 Photos














 












PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - A 16-year-old boy will serve 10 years in prison for opening fire outside North Portland's Rosemary Anderson High School last December in a gang-related shooting that injured four students.




The Oregonian reports that the boy was wearing chains around his waist Wednesday as he pleaded guilty to attempted murder, assault and unlawful use of a firearm in Multnomah County Circuit Court.




He apologized to victims' families.


















Defense attorney Russell Barnett says the evidence doesn't prove his client was the shooter, but recommended the teen agree to the plea deal to avoid getting more time in prison if convicted.




The boy can be released in eight and a half years if it's determined he has reformed in youth prison.




Unlike two other defendants in the shootings, he does not have a prior criminal history.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













