KEZI.com |  UCC Shooting: How to Locate Family Members 

KEZI.com |  UCC Shooting: How to Locate Family Members




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































UCC: Local Pastors Offering Grief Counseling
by Sean Cuellar


Officials React to UCC Shooting
































UCC Shooting: How to Locate Family Members












UCC Shooting: How to Locate Family Members












By 
KEZI 9 News
 Oct. 1, 2015










































 Photos














 












From the Douglas County Sheriff's Office:




On October 1, 2015 at approximately 10:38 AM, Douglas County Emergency Communications received a report of an active shooter in a classroom on the campus of Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. Law enforcement officers from all parts of Douglas County responded to the scene. Responding officers encountered the suspect and exchanged gunfire. The male shooter is deceased.




Law enforcement officers swept the campus for additional threats and determined that the scene was secure.


















There were multiple injuries and fatalities.




We have activated the Douglas County Major Crimes Team and have received law enforcement assistance from other jurisdictions all over the state. This is an active and ongoing investigation. There will be a media update at 3 PM.




UCC Students and staff have been bussed to the Douglas County Fairgrounds. The Red Cross is assisting in reunited those people with family members. Family member can go to 
 to check on their family members.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













