KEZI.com |  Veteran's Family Seeks Change Following Deadly Officer Involved Shooting 

KEZI.com |  Veteran's Family Seeks Change Following Deadly Officer Involved Shooting




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































$nextStory.title
































Veteran's Family Seeks Change Following Deadly Officer Involved Shooting












Veteran's Family Seeks Change Following Deadly Officer Involved Shooting












By 
Brian Richardson
 May. 5, 2015










































 Photos














 












EUGENE, Ore. -- The family of a Eugene veteran, shot and killed by police, is speaking out as they push for change.




 




They held a news conference Monday afternoon, at Brian Babb's house in the Bethel area.


















 




Eugene police shot and killed Babb in late March. They say he pointed a gun at an officer.




 




The Army veteran suffered from PTSD, which is part of the reason why his family is now pursuing a bill in his name, Brian's Bill.




 




They would like to make it mandatory for police nationwide to have specialized officers on staff to handle crisis situations with veterans.




 




"If your kid's afraid of the dark, do you dress up as a boogey man and scare them in the middle of the night," asked Stephanie Babb-Hackett, Brian's sister. "No, you dont. That's what's happening to veterans with PTSD. That's just the bottom line."




 




The Lane County District Attorney ruled last week the shooting was justified.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













