KEZI.com |  UCC Shooting: Father of Victim Speaks Out 

KEZI.com |  UCC Shooting: Father of Victim Speaks Out




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































Students and Community Members Gather at Stewart Park for Vigil
by Marisa Woloszyn


UCC Shooting: More Ways You Can Help
by Marisa Woloszyn
































UCC Shooting: Father of Victim Speaks Out












UCC Shooting: Father of Victim Speaks Out












By 
KEZI 9 News
 Oct. 2, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. – Family members of Umpqua Community College victims are speaking out Thursday.




Stacy Boylan, the father of Anastasia Boylen, 18, who was injured in today's shooting, says she underwent surgery to remove a bullet that was lodged against her spine. He says Anastasia was able to tell him what happened before she was taken in. She told him the shooter was targeting Christians.




"From what I understood what she said is he shot the professor, point blank, right one shot killed him, took him right out of it, and others had been injured and then he, this man, had enough time, I don't know how much time elapsed, before he was able to stand there and start asking people one by one what their religion was. ‘Are you a Christian?’ he would ask them. ‘And if you're a Christian, stand-up." And they would stand up and he said, ‘good, because you're a Christian, you're going to see God in just about one second" and then he shot and killed them,” said Stacy Boylan. (Courtesy of CNN)


















Anastasia told her dad she played dead on the floor so the gunman would leave her alone.




She is expected to survive.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













