KEZI.com |  UCC President Reacts to Campus Shooting 

KEZI.com |  UCC President Reacts to Campus Shooting




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































UCC Shooting: More Ways You Can Help
by Marisa Woloszyn


Lane Blood Center in Need of Blood
by Marisa Woloszyn
































UCC President Reacts to Campus Shooting












UCC President Reacts to Campus Shooting












By 
Bob Schaper
 Oct. 1, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- Umpqua Community College recently celebrated its 50th anniversary, and Thursday Interim President Dr. Rita Cavin said it was easily the saddest day in the school's history.




Cavin spoke around 4 p.m. but avoided discussing specifics of the shooting.




While patients were evacuated to Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, Cavin said the focus was on the surviving students.


















The campus has around 3,000 students, and mornings are the busiest time she said.




Cavin said there is no armed security on campus, and when asked how many security officers were on duty at the time, she said it was an interesting question.




"We have a campus security officer. We have the head of that program which schedule officers 24 hours a day and another person supervised all of them were in campus," Dr. Cavin said.




Dr. Cavin told KEZI 9 News she is working hard to organize a vigil Thursday evening.




The challenge is finidng a location because the entire campus is considered a crime scene in Roseburg.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













