KEZI.com |  UCC Shooting: Update on Patients at Mercy Medical Center 

KEZI.com |  UCC Shooting: Update on Patients at Mercy Medical Center




























KEZI.com


Live. Local. Late Breaking.




























































































































































































































































































 






















BREAKING NEWS:
















































UCC Shooting: Update on Patients at Mercy Medical Center
by Melissa Frey


Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin: 'We're Getting By' after UCC Shooting
































UCC Shooting: Update on Patients at Mercy Medical Center












UCC Shooting: Update on Patients at Mercy Medical Center












By 
Melissa Frey
 Oct. 2, 2015










































 Video




 Photos




















 












 












ROSEBURG, Ore. -- We now know the condition of the Umpqua Community College victims who were transported to Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg.




In a live press conference Friday morning Dr. Jason Gray, Chief Medical Officer at Mercy Medical Center said 10 people were transported to the hospital in Roseburg following the shooting Thursday. 




Of those 10, Dr. Gray said three were transported to the higher level trauma center, Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend.


















Dr. Gray said of the seven remaining in Roseburg, one died in the emergency room. two were treated and released and four need operating room procedures from gun shot wounds. 




Of the four patients that were admitted to the hospital, one is in critical condition, one is in stable condition, one was discharged Thursday and one is expected to be discharged Friday.


















































Related Stories
















































 









































































































        	
        	Copyright © 2015 Heartland Media, LLC | All rights reserved.
        













