Umpqua shooting could be among deadliest in American history - KPTV - FOX 12 Umpqua shooting could be among deadliest in American history - KPTV - FOX 12






Umpqua shooting could be among deadliest in American history - KPTV - FOX 12
Member Center:
|
|




SITE SEARCH






























Umpqua shooting could be among deadliest in American history


Posted: 



Thursday, October 1, 2015 5:37 PM EDT


Updated: 



Thursday, October 1, 2015 6:25 PM EDT


By Tom Ensey




The Bath Community School  was the pride of the tiny community because it served all the students in the area. But a disgruntled school board member set off bombs in the school, killing dozens. (Source: Wikimedia Commons)






The shootings at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, OR, may wind up ranking among the worst school shootings in U.S. history. The lone killer who attacked students in a classroom fit the profile of similar killers who attacked schools they either attended or were familiar with and committed multiple murders.
Here is a list of the deadliest such incidents:
The Bath School
The 
 in U.S. history happened in 1927 at an elementary school in Bath, MI. A school board member wired the school and set off multiple dynamite blasts because he didn’t like paying high property taxes.
He killed 45 people, 38 of them children.
Virginia Tech
A mentally deranged male student at Virginia Tech killed 32 and wounded 17 in two separate attacks about two hours apart. He eventually shot himself to death. In the two hours between the incidents, he mailed news agencies packages of videos confessing to the crimes and describing his rambling motives.
The 2007 crime is the deadliest shooting incident by a lone gunman in U.S. history.
Sandy Hook
A mentally ill 20-year-old in Newtown, CT, took guns from his mother’s collection and killed her at their home, then traveled to Sandy Hook Elementary School where he murdered 26 people, including 20 children. He shot himself to death when police arrived.
The 2014 massacre was the second-deadliest mass murder by a single shooter in U.S. history.
The Texas tower sniper
In 1966, an engineering student and former U.S. Marine shot and killed his wife and mother at home, then took rifles, pistols and a shotgun to the clock tower on the University of Texas in Austin where he killed 14 and wounded 32 in a 90-minute rampage.
He killed three people as he took control of the tower, then fired down on the campus from the observation deck.
Columbine
Two troubled male students carefully planned for more than a year their 1999 attack on Columbine High School in Colorado. They had planned to firebomb the school, then shoot classmates as they fled. When the bombs didn't explode, they took multiple firearms and started shooting students at random.
They killed 15, including one teacher, and wounded 24 more before killing themselves.
The 1999 killings sparked wild speculation and inaccurate reports that persisted for years: included that the pair were driven to madness by violent video games, that they were outcasts taking revenge against bullies and that they murdered a girl for saying she was a Christian. None of these were true.
FBI psychiatrists and other mental health professionals studied from diaries and other clues the killers left behind, and concluded the leader was a psychopath with a superiority complex and a lack of compassion. The other was a severe depressive prone to outbursts of rage.
Many movies and books have been produced about the incident, among the first to be reported live on national TV.
Copyright 2015 Raycom News Network. All rights reserved.


























































































































Online Public File: 
  






Children's Programming: 
 

















      All content © 2015, 
KPTV-KPDX Broadcasting Corporation, Portland, OR
 and WorldNow. All Rights Reserved.

      For more information on this site, please read our 
 and 
.
    







