Oregon college shooting updates: Gunman identified as Chris Harper Mercer reportedly targeted Christians - LA Times 

Oregon college shooting updates: Gunman identified as Chris Harper Mercer reportedly targeted Christians - LA Times

















                      Nation






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oregon college shooting updates: Gunman identified as Chris Harper Mercer reportedly targeted Christians
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key details on the mass shooting
10 people, including the gunman, are dead 
after the shooting at Umpqua Community College Thursday morning.   
The shooting suspect was identified as Chris Harper Mercer, who died after a shootout with police. He was 26. Mercer was living in Oregon, but had previously lived in Torrance, Calif. 
A spokesman for Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, Ore., said that 10 people were taken to the hospital following the shooting. One person died in the emgergency room. . 
 
 
7:38 A.M.
College entrance blocked
 
 
 
7:11 A.M.
'Disbelief' and raw emotion
(Marisa Gerber / Los Angeles Times)
At a Friday morning news conference, Dr. Jason Gray, chief medical officer of Mercy Medical Center, said the average age of the Umpqua Community College shooting victims skewed young. Some of the victims' injuries, he said, included gunshot wounds to the abdomen and head.
"The initial emotions are disbelief," Gray said, wincing. "It's still very raw."
But he'd found some comfort, he said, in the outpouring of support from across the country.
Retired physicians came in Thursday to offer help, he said, and people in Louisiana and Georgia had pizzas delivered to the hospital staff. Someone else sent coffee.
Mercy Medical Center Chief Executive Kelly Morgan said many people on the hospital's staff trained at UCC and that he expected many employees knew victims.
"I assure you," he said, "every single person at the hospital will be impacted."
                                    --
 
 
 
6:30 A.M.
Hospital reports 10 admitted after shooting
Dr. Jason Gray, chief medical officer of Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg has updated the status of 10 patients who were admitted to the hospital after the Umpqua Community College shooting.
-- 1 person died in the ER
-- 4 went into surgery
-- 3 were transferred to another hospital for a higher level of care
-- 2 were treated and released Thursday. One person currently hospitalized is expected to be released today.
 
 
 
10:04 P.M.
'If they said they were Christians, they were shot again'
Ana Boylan, 18, was in her classroom at Umpqua Community College when the gunman entered and shot her professor, she told family members Thursday afternoon.
Boylan, who had started attending the college this week, was shot in the back, said her grandmother, Janet Willis. A girl standing next to her was shot, too, Willis said.
"They just laid on the ground and pretended they were dead," Willis said her granddaughter told her and other family members. Boylan tearfully recounted her ordeal from a hospital bed after she'd been airlifted to a Eugene hospital. As she lay wounded in the classroom, she told her grandmother, she heard the gunman ask others to rise and state their religion. "If they said they were Christians, they were shot again," Willis said.
                                    --
 
 
 
9:51 P.M.
Ian Mercer, gunman's dad: 'Shocked is all I can say'
(Mel Melcon / Los Angeles Times)
Ian Mercer, father of Chris Harper Mercer, briefly stepped outside his Tarzana home Thursday night and said he had spent the day speaking with police and other authorities.
Mercer said he couldn't answer any questions about his son or the shooting.
"Shocked is all I can say," he told reporters. "It's been a devastating day."
                                    --
 
 
 
9:44 P.M.
Police search Mercer's Oregon apartment
By Thursday afternoon, police had blocked off Chris Harper Mercer's apartment complex in nearby Winchester.
Neighbor Bronte Hart told the Associated Press that he would "sit by himself in the dark in the balcony with this little light."
She said Mercer's mother could be seen "crying her eyes out" Thursday.
Mercer's L.A.-area neighbor Derrick McClendon, 42, similarly described a "bashful" and "timid" man who kept to himself.
"I wouldn't have suspected for him to be a troubled person," McClendon said.
 
 
 
9:05 P.M.
Emotion pours out at vigil
Local journalists posted these photos from the vigil tonight in Roseburg, Ore.
 
 
 
8:49 P.M.
Bryan Clay, 18, talks about his former neighbor Chris Harper Mercer, who is suspected of opening fire at Umpqua Community College in Oregon.
(Robert Chamberlin / Los Angeles Times)
Chris Harper Mercer and his mother were familiar faces in the tight-knit Torrance apartment complex where they lived for several years before moving to Oregon a year or two ago, a neighbor said.
Former neighbors described them as quiet people who kept to themselves and rarely socialized with each other. Mercer was often seen riding a red beach cruiser bike and wearing military-style, green pants with black boots.
Several said they sometimes noticed the mother and son carrying black cases that appeared to hold firearms.
David Westly, 45, said some neighbors asked him about the weapons at a community BBQ. Westly said Mercer didn't respond to that question but said he enjoyed going target shooting.
Westly and others on Arlington Avenue expressed shock that Mercer, 26, has been identified by law enforcement sources as the gunman who went on the rampage.
"It's hard to believe," he said.
"I wouldn't have suspected for him to be a troubled person," said neighbor Derrick McClendon, 42. "I'm surprised and shocked. I really am."
In Tarzana, where his father, Ian Mercer, lives with his wife and stepdaughter, neighbors said they only saw him visit a few times. Mercer's father came home around 9:15 Thursday night and quickly stepped inside without saying a word. Three police officers stood across the street, 
                                    --Ruben Vives, Matt Hamilton and Richard Winton                            
 
 
 
8:12 P.M.
7 times the president has responded to a mass shooting, including today
                Somehow this has become routine. The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine, the conversation in the aftermath of it.... We have become numb to this.            
 
 
 
7:56 P.M.
A crowd is gathering for a vigil
 
 
 
7:46 P.M.
Sheriff helping lead Oregon shooting investigation previously fought against gun control
While Thursday's mass shooting at a southwestern Oregon college has sparked a wide-ranging call for stiffer gun safety laws, including an impassioned plea from President Obama, one of the lead investigators into the killings vowed to fight the Obama administration on gun control years ago.
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin, whose agency was one of the first to respond to the attack at Umpqua Community College on Thursday, was one of nearly 500 sheriffs who took an oath to protect 2nd Amendment rights in the wake of the Newtown, Conn., school massacre in 2012, according to the 
, which spearheaded the effort.
In a letter Hanlin wrote to Vice President Joe Biden in 2013, the sheriff argued that gun control "is NOT the answer to preventing heinous crimes like school shootings," according to a copy of the letter 
 on Thursday.
Each sheriff who signed the organization's pledge said he would refuse to enforce any additional gun control measures passed after the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School, which left 20 children and six adults dead.
                                    -- 
 
 
 
7:38 P.M.
Oregon sheriff: 'You will never hear me mention his name'
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin said Thursday night that police have confirmed the identity of the gunman who opened fire at Umpqua Community College in Oregon, but refused to say the man's name aloud.
Law enforcement sources previously told the Los Angeles Times that the gunman was 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer, but a visibly emotional Hanlin said he wouldn't give the gunman the attention he probably craved.
"Let me be very clear: I will not name the shooter. I will not give him the credit he probably sought prior to this horrific and cowardly act," Hanlin said. "You will never hear me mention his name."
Police have not commented on a motive in the attack, and Hanlin said the identities of the victims may not be released until Friday at the earliest.
Officers have completed a sweep of campus buildings and found no explosives or other weapons, according to Hanlin. A search of vehicles in the school's parking lot is continuing, he said.
Mercer previously resided in Torrance, according to a law enforcement source.
 
 
 
7:06 P.M.
There have been 142 school shootings in the U.S. since 20 children and six adults were killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., on Dec. 14, 2012.
                                    --Priya Krishnakumar and Len Degroot                            
 
 
 
6:46 P.M.
Shooter identified as Chris Harper Mercer
The Oregon school shooter was area resident Chris Harper Mercer, 26, said a law enforcement official speaking on condition of anonymity because the case is new and still under investigation. Mercer formerly lived in the South Bay area of Los Angeles County, and has relatives in the San Fernando Valley, according to another law enforcement source.
He added the gunman was armed with three handguns and an assault rifle. The official did not know whether all the guns were fired, or where or how they were obtained.
Officials said they did not believe Mercer was connected to the school as a student or staff member at this time.
The law enforcement official said Mercer's motive was "not immediately clear."
 
 
 
5:08 P.M.
There's a tip line
Additionally, people who were on campus at the time of the shooting and have emerged safely are encouraged to register on the 
 Their loved ones can then check the site and know their status.
 
 
 
5:07 P.M.
Updated numbers: 10 killed and 7 injured
(Mike Sullivan / Roseburg News-Review)
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin said 10 people were killed and seven others injured in the attack at Umpqua Community College.
Acknowledging that the numbers provided have varied throughout the day, Hanlin said his figures were the most accurate ones available to him.
The state medical examiner's office will be in charge of identifying the dead and notifying their relatives. Hanlin said officials may need up to 48 hours before they make that information public.
Of the seven people injured, three were taken to a hospital in Eugene in critical condition, Hanlin said. The other four were taken to a local hospital.
The identity of the shooter has yet to be released. Hanlin would not comment on a motive in the attack.
Earlier on Thursday, the Oregon attorney general's office told several media outlets that 13 people had been killed in the shooting. A spokeswoman for the office has since told the Los Angeles Times by email that the number was "unconfirmed."
                                    -- 
 
 
 
4:50 P.M.
Mix of grief, outrage mark notable reactions to shooting
 
 
 
4:50 P.M.
(Justin Sullivan / Getty Images)
Annoyed by the "he said-she said" reporting when it comes to firearms and safety, I decided to determine objectively, through polling, whether there was scientific consensus. What I found won't please the National Rifle Assn.
I found widespread confidence that, for example, a gun in the home increases the risk that a woman living in the home will be a victim of homicide (72% agree, 11% disagree) and that a gun in the home makes it a more dangerous place to be (64%) rather than a safer place (5%). There is consensus that guns are not used in self-defense far more often than they are used in crime (73% vs. 8%) and that the change to more permissive gun-carrying laws has not reduced crime rates (62% vs. 9%). There is consensus that strong gun laws reduce homicide (71% vs. 12%).
Of course it's possible to find researchers who side with the NRA in believing that guns make our society safer, rather than more dangerous. But they're in the minority.
                                    -- David Hemenway                            
 
 
 
4:13 P.M.
Campus' no-guns policy applies to security guards too
The attack on Umpqua Community College was both a "tragedy and an anomaly," college President Rita Calvin said.
"I feel awful. To witness the families that were waiting for the students in the last bus and to see all of the hugs and weeping and trauma that has gone on," Calvin told reporters. "More people were hurt than just the ones that were shot."
Calvin said that the school was not aware of any threatening messages the shooter may have left on social media in recent days, and that no threats had been made against the campus recently.
The campus employs at least one security officer, and several faculty members are retired law enforcement personnel, according to the college.
But none of them are allowed to be armed.
"We have a no-guns-on-campus policy," Calvin said.
                                    --
 
 
 
4:10 P.M.
'I was so terrified for my life'
Cassandra Welding's writing class was nearly over when she heard a noise that seemed to be coming from next door.
A classmate opened the door to look. She was shot.
"We were screaming, 'Close the door! Close the door!'" said Welding, 20.
Another classmate dragged the woman into the room and locked the door. Someone else turned off the lights.
Classmates performed CPR on the woman, who appeared to be shot in the torso.
The sounds kept coming.
Students crawled along the floor to the back right corner of the classroom, getting as far away from the door as possible.
"I was so terrified for my life and I was shaking," she said.
Blood covered the walls near the student who'd been shot. The wounded woman's broken glasses lay on the floor.
Someone called 911. Welding called her mother.
"Hey, Mom, there's a shooting at school," she whispered, afraid the shooter could come in at any minute. "I just heard other people in tears, crying, calling their loved ones and telling them, 'I love you.'"
"It was such a heart-wrenching thing."
                                    -- 
 
 
Copyright                      © 2015, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Loading












 











