UCC Was Not A 'Gun Free Zone' Because Public Colleges In Oregon Can't Ban Guns | ThinkProgress 

UCC Was Not A 'Gun Free Zone' Because Public Colleges In Oregon Can't Ban Guns | ThinkProgress






 








































































Comment






 










































































































 














































Justice


UCC Was Not A ‘Gun Free Zone’ Because Public Colleges In Oregon Can’t Ban Guns




 by 
 
Oct 1, 2015 4:39pm










CREDIT: Screenshot




























Comment






On Thursday, a shooter reported 
 and injured many others at a community college in Oregon. Just minutes after the incident, commentators sought to attribute the incident to the fact that Umpqua Community College was a “gun free zone.”


“The gun free zones are the areas that tell licensed gun owners that you are not allowed to carry your weapon in this facility…If you’re going to perpetrate some act, 
,” CNN “military analyst” Rick Francona said a few minutes after the shooting. 


A retired Navy Seal,  Jonathan Gilliam, 
, went even further. Blaming the “gun free zone” for the scope of the tragedy and adding “the only thing that’s going to stop a gun is another gun.” 




Umpqua Community College, however, was not a gun free zone. A 2011, state court decision 
 on campus. The decision stemmed from a suit filed by the Oregon Firearm Education Foundation, a gun rights group. There was an effort to pass a new law to reinstate the ability of public colleges to ban guns. That measure was 
.






UPDATE


OCT 1, 2015 8:09 PM




The 
 and others assert that guns were banned at UCC. This is not true. The student code of conduct bans guns "without written authorization." Under Oregon law, the university could not ban people with a valid concealed carry license from bringing their weapons on campus. (They could ban gun from 
.) Conservative writer Dana Loesch, who initially claimed the campus was a "gun free zone," updated her article to clarify that 
. 



There was, in fact, someone on campus with a concealed carry weapon at the time of the massacre. A local reporter explained to CNN that it was legal for him to have such a weapon on campus.




For those 
 gun loons talking about gun free zones...UCC was not a gun free zone. 
 
 
— Bimm #StandwithPP (@bimmerella) 






Share Update
















Tags








 






















Comment






























Get ThinkProgress email alerts


















 


 


















































































@2005-2015 CENTER FOR AMERICAN PROGRESS ACTION FUND






 




































 


 
 












































 



















