Mass Shooting At Oregon Community College, At Least 13 Dead | ThinkProgress 

Mass Shooting At Oregon Community College, At Least 13 Dead | ThinkProgress






 








































































Comment






 










































































































 














































Justice


Mass Shooting At Oregon Community College, At Least 13 Dead




 by 
 & 
 
Oct 1, 2015 2:28pm










CREDIT: Screenshot




























Comment






A mass shooting at Umpqua Community College has left at least 13 people dead and 20 injured. 


UPDATE: 13 dead in 
 according to OR Attorney General 


— KGW News (@KGWNews) 




The shooter is among the dead, CBS reported. The 911 calls after the shooting began around 10:30 Pacific time said that the gunman went down 
. The Douglas County Sheriff, John Hanlin, said the 
 shot at police near some classrooms. The gunman has not yet been identified but Gov. Kate Brown said the shooter was a 20-year-old man.






Shooter among the dead, CBS reports, citing Oregon attorney general 


— KVAL News (@KVALnews) 




Kortney Moore, an 18-year-old student, 
 that she saw her teacher shot in the head after the gunman burst into her writing classroom. He then told students to state their religion and started firing at random, she said. 


Students say they were locked down in the library. Once the active threat was over, they were 
 to the Douglas County fairgrounds, where counselors are waiting to talk to students, families and staff. 


President Obama has been briefed and is receiving updates from Homeland Security as the situation develops. The FBI and ATF have sent agents across the state to investigate. Former Attorney General Eric Holder weighed in on the shooting as well, calling for more 


"Now Oregon."

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder comments on 
 and gun violence in the United States: 


— AJ+ (@ajplus) 




The Oregonian 
 that Roseburg, where UCC is located, is no stranger to school shootings. A Roseburg High School student shot a fellow student in the school courtyard in 2006, prompting UCC and other schools to develop active shooter plans. 


This is the 
 and the 
 since the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.


This post will be updated as more information becomes available. 




Tags








 






















Comment






























Get ThinkProgress email alerts


















 


 


















































































@2005-2015 CENTER FOR AMERICAN PROGRESS ACTION FUND






 




































 


 
 












































 



















