 Less than 90 minutes after Oregon shooting, CNN analyst suggests school’s ‘gun free zone’ to blame  


 Less than 90 minutes after Oregon shooting, CNN analyst suggests school’s ‘gun free zone’ to blame








 
 
















 
 








 
 






 
 






 
 






 
 






 
 








 
 






 
 






 
 






 
 






 






 
 




 








 


























 


















































Details emerge about Oregon killer — a self-described conservative who loved guns and conspiracy theories
Umpqua College terrorist identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer: report
‘Let the little homo sue': TN official bashes teen who wanted to bring boyfriend to homecoming dance
Vatican feels ‘sense of regret’ for pope’s meeting with Kim Davis
Alabama to stop issuing driver’s licenses in counties with 75% black registered voters
Favorite Duggar pastor John Piper: Sex is only for Christians and everyone else is a prostitute
Ted Cruz’s radio buddy blames blacks for racism: ‘Black people are obsessed with white people’
Trevor Noah proves Donald Trump is ‘presidential’ by comparing him to Gadhafi and Idi Amin
Bristol Palin: ‘Hillary fears my mom’s power’ because she mentioned her name in an email
Less than 90 minutes after Oregon shooting, CNN analyst suggests school’s ‘gun free zone’ to blame
, 
, 
Less than 90 minutes after Oregon shooting, CNN analyst suggests school’s ‘gun free zone’ to blame
 
                   






CNN military analyst Rick Francona (screen grab)




Don't miss stories. Follow Raw Story!


























Less than two hours after massacre at Umpqua Community College on Thursday, CNN military analyst Rick Francona suggested that the shooter had chosen the location because it was a gun free zone. 


“We were talking earlier about these gun free zones in Oregon,” Francona told CNN host Brooke Baldwin. “Oregon is a shall issue permit state. A lot of Oregonians do have concealed handgun licenses, that’s what we call them here.”










“The gun free zones are the areas that tell licensed gun owners that you are not allowed to carry your weapon in this facility,” he continued. “So, they do serve a purpose to let everyone know that this is a gun free zone.”


“If you’re going to perpetrate some act, you know that most people are not going to be armed.”


Update: Retired Navy SEAL Jonathan Gilliam echoed Francona’s comments moments later on CNN.


“You are really setting people up — and law enforcement — for somewhat of a failure when you have an active shooter scenario,” Gilliam insisted. “Clearly, policy has to be looked at and what’s effective.”


“This shows you how quickly these things can go bad, and these gun free zones, just like happened in Tennessee that this shooter that went onto a military installation, which was a gun free zone,” he added. “We see that the only thing that’s going to stop a gun is another gun.”


“And I think these are things we need to look at instead of saying we need to look at mental illness, we need to stop people from having guns. We need to start looking at what’s effective in stopping a shooter. And I think just saying, ‘Hey, nobody carry a gun here’ is not effective.”


Watch the videos below from CNN, broadcast Oct. 1, 2015.






















About the Author
David Edwards has served as an editor at Raw Story since 2006. His work can also be found at Crooks & Liars, and he's also been published at The BRAD BLOG. He came to Raw Story after working as a network manager for the state of North Carolina and as as engineer developing enterprise resource planning software. Follow him on Twitter at @DavidEdwards.






Next on Raw Story >




































By commenting, you agree to our 
 and to abide by our 
.


 


SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
Get the best of Raw Story, delivered daily










Email Address














 










 




Sponsored Links








New Stories
















































 








 








 


New Videos
























 








 


 


 
















 


 














SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
Get the best of Raw Story, delivered daily










Email Address


















 






 



































