Submit News - Submit Shooting News and Events FREE at Ammoland.com Submit News - Submit Shooting News and Events FREE at Ammoland.com
AmmoLand Shooting Sports News
Menu
 
 | 
Search Ammoland:
 
 
 
Today is Friday, October 02, 2015 
 
 
 
Firearms Industry Press Announcements
Ammoland.com is committed to publishing the firearms industry press announcement and news absolutely FREE. Firearms, Ammunition, Optics, Shooting accessories and Hunting gear manufactures and licensed distributors should submit their press announcements in their full form to News@ammoland.com . On topic industry press announcements will be published in their entirety including rich media files images and embedded text links. All press announcements must Include contact details and embargo release dates if immediate publishing is not desired.
Industry News and press announcements submitted too ammoland.com will be distributed to our daily “double opt in” email subscriber list as a text link and written excerpt. Ammoland will also syndicate all press announcements to web content syndication partners such as Google News, Yahoo News, Topix, Technorati, Newstex, Amazon Kindle, Lexus Nexus, Zimbio, Beforeitsnews, Bloglines, NetNewsWire, NewsGator and several more.
Ammoland.com is the firearms industry social media engine delivering your press announcements to Facebook, Digg, Stumbleupon, Feedburner, Reddit, LinkedIn, Delecious, Twitter and several more.
Ammoland’s website content partners pull our RSS news feeds and you may find your press announcement on gunnewsdaily.com, freerepublic.com, survivalblog.com, mcrgo.org, keepandbeararms.com, outdoorsunlimited.net, and hundreds more friendly down stream web sites.
Firearms, Shooting Sports, Hunting, Gun Rights, Conceal and Carry and Political Editorial
 Ammoland.com values the opinions and thoughts of firearms owners, gun enthusiasts and those citizens who put themselves on the front line to protect our individual gun rights. Our editors welcome opinion based articles for submission and syndication through ammoland news. Writers, webmasters and editors who have on topic editorial should submit their news to news@ammoland.com. We urge writers to become a regular contributor to Ammoland.
Promotional information or informational advertising
 Retailers, distributors, e-commerce websites looking to build web site visibility with search engines and generate visitor traffic through high value search marketing keyword links. AmmoLand’s unique 
 is ideal for your business to reach more readers in your target market. Develop a standing as the go to expert in your field and the brand recognition needed to deliver high value customer traffic too your website.
How too Submit:
 You can easily submit your news by use of the following link where we will publish your news to our growing list of consumers and industry insiders both by email and on our website. 
 
Press Tips:
 Be sure and include with your email submission a title, your article or news, an image and complete contact information. You can also send your shooting sports news as a Microsoft Word Attachment IE: (yournews.doc)
Title:
 Should be a brief statement getting right to the heart of your Gun & Ammo news.
 
Article: 
 This is the body of your news story and should contain a complete description of the product, news or event. What is exciting about it and links to websites for more information.
 
Image:
 Include a great image of your product, news or event that you would like us to republish along with your news story.
 
Contact Info:
 Send us your complete contact information including your Name, Position or Job Title, Company Name, Complete Address, Phone number and Email address. 
 
Have more news that you would like to see published? Ammoland.com also has a dedicated Shooting, Guns and Ammunition Article base that you can submit to and receive personal credit as Author along with a high value link to your place on the web. Click here to Register as an Author and Submit Guns and Ammo Articles Here..
– AMMOLAND.COM
 – Free News Service for the Shooting Industry! 
 
 
 
 
 | 
 | 
 
 
 
Information
 
Contributors
 
Follow Us
Follow Us
Add Us
Linkedin
RSS feed
Google+
Pinterest
Youtube
Copyright 2015 AmmoLand.com Shooting Sports News | 
 | Μολὼν λαβέ
 
 
 
 