Who Is  Oregon College Gunman Chris Harper Mercer? | Mediaite 



Who Is  Oregon College Gunman Chris Harper Mercer? | Mediaite
 




















































































































 


 Menu














 


 


 


 


 














































Who Is Alleged Oregon College Gunman Chris Harper Mercer? (UPDATED)


by 
 | 10:08 pm, October 1st, 2015




























































 




Multiple news outlets tonight have 
 of the Oregon college shooter as 
Chris Harper Mercer
, and already there are some details coming out from social media accounts believed to be his.


The photo here is taken from a Myspace page belonging to someone identified as Chris Harper Mercer:




The account is connected to Torrance, California, and 
, he lived in Torrance before moving to Oregon in a town where there is reportedly some police presence in tonight.


The profile also contains a bunch of pro-IRA images:




There’s also a dating profile circling around believed to belong to Mercer, identifying the user IRONCROSS45 as mixed race, “conservative, republican,” and “not religious, but spiritual.” One of his “dislikes” was “organized religion.”


Accounts from witnesses of the shooting earlier 
 the shooter asked people if they were Christian before firing. If they were, he shot them in the head, and if they weren’t, he shot them in the legs.


Fox News’ 
Trace Gallagher
 provided more information on the shooter and how authorities are planning to search his Oregon apartment.










Please enable Javascript to watch.




Gallagher said that neighbors didn’t like his smoking and was “heavily involved in weapons,” but other than that there’s very little online information to be found about him.


Watch above, via Fox News.


UPDATE (9:22 AM ET, 10/2/2015):
 NBC’s 
Pete Williams
 reports on MSNBC that Gallagher may have been in a theatrical production at the school, but was not a student. He lived in the community with his mother after moving from Los Angeles. His father is a restaurant manager in L.A., and was reportedly “in shock” upon hearing his son was the shooter.


[
image via Myspace
]


— —




 




Follow Mediaite
















 


filed under


, 




























































































Mediaite Newsletter


Sign up for our newsletter to receive Mediaite in your inbox, daily!




















Around the Web




























Meet the Press






Face the Nation






















 
















Follow Us












Tips


Have a tip or story idea? 
 Or to keep it anonymous, 
.
















 


































© 2015 Mediaite, LLC
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
 |
			
  |
			
 |
			




, 




















































 

























