White House calls for tougher gun laws in wake of Oregon shooting | TheHill 

White House calls for tougher gun laws in wake of Oregon shooting | TheHill


























































TRENDING:














SPONSORED:










 
 
 
 







Search form




Search 
































Main menu


















 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 






































































































































 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 
































 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 
















































 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 


















 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 






















 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 














































 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 








































































 


10:17am














 


10:30am














 


10:00am














 


06:26pm














 


10:32am














 


06:02am














 


08:39am














 


10:27am














 


08:27am














 


10:40am














 


10:02am














 


07:15am














 


02:39pm














 


06:01am








































 | 
 | 
 




White House calls for tougher gun laws in wake of Oregon shooting
























 
 









      By 
Jordan Fabian
 - 
10/01/15 03:08 PM EDT










































Passing tougher laws to help prevent gun violence remains a high priority for President Obama, the White House said Thursday after reports of a mass shooting resulting in multiple casualties.
 
“The issue of sensible steps that can be taken to protect our communities from gun violence continues to be a top priority of this administration,” press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters. 
 
ADVERTISEMENT
Up to 10 people were killed at shooting at a community college in Oregon, 
. 
 
Obama was briefed on the shooting by homeland security adviser Lisa Monaco and will receive updates throughout the day, according to a White House official. 
 
Earnest said the “vast majority of Americans” support stricter gun laws, including closing the so-called gun-show loophole. But he said Obama is “realistic” about the dim prospects of congressional action on gun control. 
 
“The president has been quite candid about how this is and has been a source of frustration for him,” he said. 
 
“It has at all not been lowered at all on the priority scale, but at the same time the president is realistic that we’ll need to see a fundamental change” about how the public presses for action. 
 
- Updated at 3:43 p.m.


































Please enable JavaScript to view the 
































































































Email Alerts 




























Most Popular






Most Popular


Discussed


 
Past:


1 day


 
 



















              The remarks are ammo for GOP critics trying to draft a conservative to...          




 

















              "This is a political choice that we make, to allow this to happen," he...          




 


















 
 

















              The long-simmering rivalry between the candidates has spilled out into the...          




 

















              In Tuesday's congressional hearing, Cecile Richards made some notable...          




 

















              Opposition to unions is a thin agenda for a presidential bid.          




 

















              If Kevin McCarthy can't get a first-ballot victory, there might be a...          




 

















              Economist Robert Litan was forced to resign from the think tank.          




 

















              One student said the shooter asked people to state their religion before...          




 

















              "You’re always going to have problems," Trump says. "That’s the way the...          




 

















              Alleged killer Chris Harper Mercer led a reclusive life.          




 

















              “Utter silence. Deafening silence,” said the Israeli leader.          




 

















              Republicans have been winning elections, but now it's time to also win the...          




 

















              The deadline coincides with the end of John Boehner's Speakership.          




 

















              “I do not intend to respond to your questions," she told a CNS News...          




 

















              The Massachusetts Democrat derided Republican assaults on the group as "...          




 

















              Privacy advocates are pressuring the industry to resist information...          




 

















              One Vatican official says there's a "sense of regret" over their encounter.          




 

















              He called for a system that "prevents guns from being used by people who...          




 

















              Some believe Biden could pull gay voters from Clinton.          




 

















              The jobless rate remains 5.1 percent, its lowest since April 2008.          




 

















              Sanders says, like himself, many Americans are "sick and tired" of gun...          




 

















              Proponents say the bill will save businesses from premium increases.           




 

















              Outgoing Speaker John Boehner said the probe has never been about Hillary...          




 











              The U.S. has now slowed its engagement with Taiwan to a crawl.          




 

















              Taking "sensible steps" on guns "continues to be a top priority,” press...          




 

















              Powell said the "party has shifted much further right than where the...          




 

















              The two lawmakers looking to climb the GOP leadership ladder won’t face...          




 














The Hill Blogs












 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 




































More From The Web






Sponsored:


















More Administration Headlines 
















FOLLOW The Hill


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






Columnists




 




 












Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz has issued an edict that sells...
 












 




 












Jeb! You are not living up to your peppy red logo, and the “joyous” campaign for the presidency...
 












 




 












A recent Twitter exchange vividly brought to mind a critical flaw in Iowa caucus polling.
...
 












 




 












Remember these words: “the party of old white men.” 
This was the typical attack line...
 












 










Features






























Archives






















More Video














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 






















































Sign up for our daily emails and alerts. Never miss important news from




Email Alerts 




































Home






















Policy






























Video






































Blogs
























Opinion










































Classified












Resources


















Contact Us














Contributors


















Anchor_menu




















The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2015 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.







































































