Mass shooting reported at Oregon college; police say up to 10 are dead | TheHill 

Mass shooting reported at Oregon college; police say up to 10 are dead | TheHill


























































TRENDING:














SPONSORED:










 
 
 
 







Search form




Search 
































Main menu


















 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 






































































































































 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 
































 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 
















































 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 


















 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 






















 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 














































 
 


 
 


 
 
 




 
 


 
 


 
 
 








































































 


10:17am














 


10:30am














 


10:00am














 


06:26pm














 


10:32am














 


06:02am














 


08:39am














 


10:27am














 


08:27am














 


10:40am














 


10:02am














 


07:15am














 


02:39pm














 


06:01am








































 | 
 | 
 






























 






















October 01, 2015, 02:40 pm


Mass shooting reported at Oregon college; police say up to 10 are dead



















      By 
Jesse Byrnes and Mark Hensch










 
 












 
A mass shooting at a community college in southwest Oregon has left up to 10 people dead and scores wounded, according to multiple reports. 
Authorities were called to Umpqua Community College at around 2 p.m. Eastern time. A local fire district 
 around that time that an active shooter was at the school.
ADVERTISEMENT
Oregon State Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum said on 
 that the gunman had been "neutralized," adding that authorities so far did not have information on the weapon.
Oregon State Police Lt. Bill Fugate said seven to 10 people were killed in the attack, 
 local news outlet KATU. Rosenblum said preliminary information indicated that 13 people have died.
Initial reports on the death toll have varied, with wounded victims being transported to local hospitals.
Kathleen Nickel, a spokeswoman for Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, Ore., told the Roseburg News Reader that the hospital has received six patients hurt in the attack and is expecting two more.
 
PeaceHealth hospital in Springfield, Ore., is also preparing for incoming victims, according to The Oregonian.
 
"We're trying to prepare for a half-dozen or more victims," said Jim Godbold, director of communications at PeaceHealth. "This is a disaster-level response."
Mercy Medical Center 
 after 3 p.m. Eastern that it had received nine patients from the school and three more were en route.
President Obama has been briefed on the shooting by homeland security adviser Lisa Monaco and will receive updates throughout the day, according to a White House official.
English professor Jillanne Michell told The Oregonian on Thursday that the shooting occurred in Snyder Hall.
“I heard the shots,” Michell said, adding it was possible more shots were fired elsewhere. “It was a lot.”
Umpqua Community College has around 3,300 full-time students, according to KTVU. The school was established in 1964 and has 16 campus buildings across 100 acres.
This story was last updated at 4:23 p.m.
Jordan Fabian contributed.


































Please enable JavaScript to view the 








 






More in News   




















































































Email Alerts 






















More News Headlines 
















Most Popular






Most Popular


Discussed


 
Past:


1 day


 
 



















              The remarks are ammo for GOP critics trying to draft a conservative to...          




 

















              "This is a political choice that we make, to allow this to happen," he...          




 


















 
 

















              The long-simmering rivalry between the candidates has spilled out into the...          




 

















              In Tuesday's congressional hearing, Cecile Richards made some notable...          




 

















              Opposition to unions is a thin agenda for a presidential bid.          




 

















              If Kevin McCarthy can't get a first-ballot victory, there might be a...          




 

















              Economist Robert Litan was forced to resign from the think tank.          




 

















              One student said the shooter asked people to state their religion before...          




 

















              "You’re always going to have problems," Trump says. "That’s the way the...          




 

















              Alleged killer Chris Harper Mercer led a reclusive life.          




 

















              “Utter silence. Deafening silence,” said the Israeli leader.          




 

















              Republicans have been winning elections, but now it's time to also win the...          




 

















              The deadline coincides with the end of John Boehner's Speakership.          




 

















              “I do not intend to respond to your questions," she told a CNS News...          




 

















              The Massachusetts Democrat derided Republican assaults on the group as "...          




 

















              Privacy advocates are pressuring the industry to resist information...          




 

















              One Vatican official says there's a "sense of regret" over their encounter.          




 

















              He called for a system that "prevents guns from being used by people who...          




 

















              Some believe Biden could pull gay voters from Clinton.          




 

















              The jobless rate remains 5.1 percent, its lowest since April 2008.          




 

















              Sanders says, like himself, many Americans are "sick and tired" of gun...          




 

















              Proponents say the bill will save businesses from premium increases.           




 

















              Outgoing Speaker John Boehner said the probe has never been about Hillary...          




 











              The U.S. has now slowed its engagement with Taiwan to a crawl.          




 

















              Taking "sensible steps" on guns "continues to be a top priority,” press...          




 

















              Powell said the "party has shifted much further right than where the...          




 

















              The two lawmakers looking to climb the GOP leadership ladder won’t face...          




 




































More From The Web






Sponsored:


















The Hill Blogs












 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 




















FOLLOW The Hill


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






Features






























Archives






















More Video














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 






















































Sign up for our daily emails and alerts. Never miss important news from




Email Alerts 




































Home






















Policy






























Video






































Blogs
























Opinion










































Classified












Resources


















Contact Us














Contributors


















Anchor_menu




















The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2015 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.


















































 





















