Mojo - October 2015 | Mother Jones 

Mojo - October 2015 | Mother Jones
















 


 


 


















 


 


 




 


































 
 






 














Search this site: 


















 
















Must Reads:
 
 | 
 | 
 


 






 


 
















 


 


 






Mojo - October 2015


 




















—By 
 | Fri Oct. 2, 2015 9:58 AM EDT
 
On Friday, the Vatican sought to provide a few more details concerning Pope Francis' meeting last week with 
, the defiant Kentucky clerk who was jailed for her refusal to issue gay marriage licenses in Rowan County.


"The pope did not enter into the details of the situation of Mrs. Davis, and his meeting with her should not be considered a form of support of her position in all of its particular and complex aspects," official Vatican spokesman Rev. Federico Lombardi 


The clarification follows a wave of controversy this week after 
 she had a private meeting with the pope during his historic visit to Washington, and claimed Francis gave her and her husband rosaries and told her to "stay strong."


"Just knowing that the pope is on track with what we're doing and agreeing, you know, it kind of validates everything," Davis said in an interview with 
.


Days of speculation followed over whether the meeting in fact occurred and whether the pope was as progressive as some believed he was. Some on social media professed to be shocked that the leader of the Catholic Church might endorse the politics of Davis and not support same-sex marriage, despite the church's clear stance opposing the issue. 






Why Pope Francis’ meeting with Kim Davis is such a disappointment. 
 

		— Slate (@Slate) 






Next you're going to tell me the Pope is Catholic... 

		— Ezra Klein (@ezraklein) 






BREAKING: The Pope does not have your politics.

		— Christopher Hayes (@chrislhayes) 




Eventually the Vatican confirmed the encounter, but with scant detail. Friday's statement appeared to downplay the importance of their meeting.


"Pope Francis met with several dozen persons who had been invited by the Nunciature to greet him as he prepared to leave Washington for New York City," Lombardi said.


Email
 


 




 












—By 
 | Fri Oct. 2, 2015 6:00 AM EDT
A new report 
 that the state of economic inequality in the United States is far more drastic than in other developed countries. The report, published by the German financial services company Allianz, even dubs us the "Unequal States of America."


The company's latest 
Global Wealth Report
 calculates 55 countries' Gini coefficient, a measure of the distribution of wealth in which zero means total equality and 100 means total inequality. The average for all developed countries is 65. The United States' score is nearly 81.




Allianz/Global Wealth Report 2015




Michael Heise, the chief economist at Allianz, 
 the situation in the United States as "worrying." "Our calculations indicate that developments have not been quite as dramatic in the other countries," he said. "As usual, the US represents more the exception than the rule among market economies." The report's authors note the country's 
 from the financial crisis has "caused a dramatic deterioration in wealth distribution." While the United States amassed nearly 42 percent of the world's private wealth in 2014 ($63.5 trillion), the top 10 percent of Americans 
 of the country's 
.


The United States leads the pack, but it's not alone. Much of the world's developed nations saw "exceptionally large gaps" in the wealth gulf between the rich and the poor during since 2000, according to the report. Over the past decade and a half, it found, the number of countries that closed their wealth gaps was roughly the same as the number that grew more unequal.


Email
 


 
















—By 
 | Thu Oct. 1, 2015 6:59 PM EDT


At a press conference Thursday, President Barack Obama was visibly frustrated with a lack of action from Congress to prevent mass shootings like the one that happened today at 
.


"It cannot be this easy for somebody who wants to inflict harm on other people to get his or her hands on a gun," Obama said.


He recalled an interview in which he said that America is the only country on Earth that sees 
. Hours later, there were reports of a 
.


He continued: "We spend over $1 trillion on preventing terrorism…yet we have a Congress that prevents us from even collecting data on how to reduce gun deaths."


Email
 


 
















—By 
 | Thu Oct. 1, 2015 6:38 PM EDT
 
In Alabama, you need a driver's license or other 
 to vote. But getting that ID just got a lot harder, especially in the state's majority-black counties.


Due to budget cuts, Alabama is closing 31 satellite DMVs across the state. The biggest impact will be in rural, largely black counties that voted for President Obama in 2008 and 2012. Alabama Media Group columnist John Archibald 
:




Take a look at the 10 Alabama counties with the highest percentage of non-white registered voters. That's Macon, Greene, Sumter, Lowndes, Bullock, Perry, Wilcox, Dallas, Hale, and Montgomery, according to the Alabama Secretary of State's office. Alabama, thanks to its budgetary insanity and inanity, just opted to close driver license bureaus in eight of them. All but Dallas and Montgomery will be closed.


Closed. In a state in which driver licenses or special photo IDs are a requirement for voting…


Every single county in which blacks make up more than 75 percent of registered voters will see their driver license office closed. Every one.




Archibald predicted the move would invite a Justice Department investigation, 
, Kyle Whitmire:




But put these two things together—Voter ID and 29 counties without a place where you can get one—and Voter ID becomes what the Democrats always said it was.


A civil rights lawsuit isn't a probability. It's a certainty.




Email
 


 
















—By 
 | Thu Oct. 1, 2015 6:33 PM EDT
As the sheriff in Douglas County, Oregon, John Hanlin was front and center following 
 at Umpqua Community College, which left 10 dead and 7 others wounded.


Two years ago, Hanlin was one of 
 around the country to vow to stand against new gun control legislation. In a January 15, 2013, letter to Vice President Joe Biden, he wrote, "Gun control is NOT the answer to preventing heinous crimes like school shootings."


Read more below:




 


Email
 


 
















—By 
 | Thu Oct. 1, 2015 6:13 PM EDT
Students, staff, and faculty are evacuated from Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, after a mass shooting on October 1, 2015. 
 
Following today's mass shooting at 
 in Oregon, White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest 
 that President Obama wants to see "sensible steps" to prevent gun violence, including expanding background checks to all gun purchases. While Congress has repeatedly punted on that proposal, a large majority of Americans say they are on board with it. According to a poll taken 
 by Quinnipiac University in Connecticut, 93 percent of registered voters said they would support universal background checks for all gun buyers—even as nearly half said they oppose stricter gun control laws.




 


Email
 


 




 












—By 
 and 
 | Thu Oct. 1, 2015 2:44 PM EDT


Update, 8:15 p.m. EDT: 
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin says the fatalities are less than originally reported by the attorney general— there are 10 fatalities and 7 injured. There are still no details on the shooter.


Update, 5:03 p.m. EDT:
 Oregon Gov. Kate Brown confirms that the shooter was a 20-year-old male. "I know I am joined by my fellow Oregonians and Americans in profound dismay and heartbreak at this tragedy at Umpqua Community College," Brown said.


Update, 4:52 p.m. EDT: 
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin confirms that the shooter is dead. "I couldn't be happier [with the officer response today]," Hanlin said.


Hanlin said the scene is still active and being investigated.


Update, 4:08 p.m. EDT: 
Oregon's attorney general confirms that at least 13 people were killed and 20 people wounded in today's shooting.






UPDATE: 13 dead in 
 according to OR Attorney General 

		— KGW News (@KGWNews) 




In response to the shooting, the 
 repeated its call for increased gun control laws. "The issue of sensible steps that can be taken to protect our communities from gun violence continues to be a top priority of this administration," White House press secretary Josh Earnest said on Thursday.


Previously:


Multiple media outlets are reporting a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon.






 Reports of active shooter at Umpqua Community College campus in Roseburg. 

		— KGW News (@KGWNews) 




On MSNBC, Brian Williams interviewed a local firefighter who said he had been on the scene and witnessed "multiple deceased" and "multiple" injured people who were transported for emergency care. He said the campus had been evacuated.




 










Emergency responders are in the process of clearing buildings at Umpqua Community College now. Students are being escorted now to get off campus. Wayne Crooch building has just been secured.

				Posted by 
 on 








As news of the shooting first broke, a student tweeted the following:






Omg there's someone shooting on campus.

		— Kayla Marie (@KP_KaylaMarie) 






Students are running everywhere. Holy God.

		— Kayla Marie (@KP_KaylaMarie) 






Hi guys. I'm ok. Physically. We're being bused off campus.

		— Kayla Marie (@KP_KaylaMarie) 




According to the gun safety coalition 
, today's shooting marks the 45th school shooting in 2015 alone.


This is a breaking news post. We will update as more news becomes available.


Email
 


 
















—By 
 | Thu Oct. 1, 2015 12:37 PM EDT
 
As the other Democratic candidates release their third quarter 
—$28 million for Hillary Clinton, $26 million for Bernie Sanders—Martin O'Malley has remained mum. But the former Maryland governor has seized the occasion of fundraising disclosures to put forward a 
 that seeks to rein in runaway political spending.


Like his two main Democratic rivals, O'Malley wants to overturn the Supreme Court's 
Citizens United 
decision that ushered in an era of unlimited political donations, increase disclosure rules, and set up a public campaign financing system. But O'Malley goes further in calling for an overhaul of the Federal Election Commission, the agency that is intended to regulate election spending but is instead so mired in dysfunction that it 
 its own 40th anniversary party earlier this year. "The likelihood of the laws being enforced is slim," the chairwoman of the agency, Ann Ravel, told the 
New York Times
. "People think the F.E.C. is dysfunctional. It’s worse than dysfunctional.”


Because of the FEC's structure, with an equal number of Republican and Democratic commissioners, the agency is deadlocked. One of the things that the FEC is supposed to be doing is cracking down on illegal coordination between super-PACs, political nonprofits, and campaigns. As president, O'Malley says, he would push to reorganize the agency so that it is led by one independent administrator "serving a term independent from the president who appoints them." His plan would also increase the FEC's power to punish groups that break campaign finance laws.


O'Malley's plan is unlikely to boost his 
. If a strong campaign finance reform agenda were the golden ticket to success, then Larry Lessig's 
 would be atop the polls. (It's not.) But at least O'Malley can tout his plan in two weeks at the first Democratic debate—and find something to promote on a day when his rivals are showing off their big hauls.


Email
 


 
















—By 
 | Thu Oct. 1, 2015 11:23 AM EDT
 
Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign brought in $26 million in the third quarter of fundraising—just $2 million less than former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the front-runner for the Democratic nomination. For a candidate who's eschewed super-PACs and high-dollar fundraising, it's kind of an astounding figure. The 
New York Times
's Nick Confessore 
 in perspective:




Mrs. Clinton has relied on the full force and reach of one of the most prominent Democratic politicians in the world, rousing small donors but also investing far more time and energy than Mr. Sanders in courting those who can give the maximum $2,700 for her primary campaign.


Mrs. Clinton attended at least 58 fund-raisers during the last three months, according to her campaign schedules, and sent her husband, former President Bill Clinton, or top aides to others.




Despite all of that, her overall haul was negligible. And Sanders' reliance on small-dollar donors means he can hit them up again and again if he needs to. Consider that on Wednesday, Sanders' presidential campaign also hit its one millionth individual donation—the most, by far, of any 2016 candidate. (By contrast, then-Sen. Barack Obama didn't reach 1 million contributions until February 2008.)


The national polls still point to a comfortable Clinton lead—and an overwhelming advantage with nonwhite voters—but Sanders just guaranteed he'll have plenty of money to get his message out in the first round of primaries and beyond.


Email
 


 






 










MoJo Troll Patrol encourages readers to sign in with Facebook, Twitter, Google, Yahoo, Disqus, or OpenID to comment. Please 
 before posting.


 


 


 


 













FOLLOW MOTHER JONES































































SIGN UP








 












 


 






 


 











GET HOME DELIVERY









First name




Last name




Address




City






--


AA


AE


AK


AL


AP


AR


AS


AZ


CA


CO


CT


DC


DE


FL


FM


GA


GU


HI


IA


ID


IL


IN


KS


KY


LA


MA


MD


ME


MH


MI


MN


MP


MS


MO


MT


NC


ND


NE


NH


NJ


NM


NV


NY


OH


OK


OR


PA


PR


PW


RI


SC


SD


TN


TX


UM


UT


VA


VI


VT


WA


WI


WV


WY




State




Zip







Subscribe Now!









 




Popular on Mother Jones








 






































































































 


 








Mother Jones






 








More Ways to Get your MoJo


































 





















 



Check out 
Mother Jones
' 
 alter ego.


















 



Add us to your 
.
















 

RSS junkie?  
 your fix.
















 
Subscribe to our 
 channel.








 




Blog Archives




2015






















2014


























2013


























2012


























2011


























2010


























2009


























2008


























2007


























2006


























2005






















 


 








Support our Advertisers






Advertise on Mother Jones






 










 


 


 


 
















 




 + 
































 
























 
























 
























 






 


 


 


 


 














Reader-Supported Journalism
























































Copyright ©2015 Mother Jones and the Foundation for National Progress. All Rights Reserved.






 


 


 




















 


 










 


 






 


 














 










 


 










 


 









    We noticed you have ad blocker on.
    Support nonprofit investigative reporting by pitching in a few
    bucks.
    


X




 


 































