Santa Barbara killer plotted murder spree for a year: police - NY Daily News  
 
Santa Barbara killer plotted murder spree for a year: police - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Santa Barbara killer Elliot Rodger plotted murder spree for more than a year and practiced by stabbing pillows: police
 
 BY  
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Updated: Thursday, February 19, 2015, 8:35 PM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
facebook/ Elliot Rodger
 
Elliot Rodger spent hours on the Internet searching for ways to kill with a knife, police said.
 
 
 
 

	The troubled California gunman who killed six people last spring had plotted his murderous rampage for more than a year and practiced by stabbing pillows, according to a new sheriff’s department report.



	Elliot Rodger, a misogynistic 22-year-old virgin, 
 and wounded 14 others before fatally shooting himself in the head in Isla Vista, Calif.



	Rodger, the son of a Hollywood filmmaker, twice canceled his murderous plans, according to the report.



	But on May 23, 2014, he went through with the heinous act, writing in his journal: “This is it. In one hour I will have my revenge on this cruel world. I HATE YOU ALLLL! DIE.”



	The Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office released a 64-page report Thursday summarizing the results of its investigation into Rodger’s killing spree.



	The loner had spent hours poring over Internet searches for ways to kill with a knife.



	He stabbed to death his first three victims, one of them 94 times, using two long fixed-blade weapons, including a nearly 9-inch boar hunting knife.



	The bloody ambush left roommates James Hong and Weihan “David” Wang, both 20, and a visiting friend, George Chen, 19, dead.


 
 
 
 
 
Jae C. Hong/AP
 
Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown (R) walks past a board showing the photos of Elliot Rodger and the weapons he used in the murder rampage in May 2014.
 
 
 
 
MICHAEL NELSON/EPA
 
Richard Martinez (L), the father of mass shooting victim Christopher Martinez, expresses his anger and sorrow as he speaks to the media in May 2014 in Goleta, Calif.
 
 
 
 
Splash News/Splash News
 
This is the Capri Apartment building in Isla Vista where Elliot Rodger lived.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







	According to the report, stab and slash marks on a fitted sheet and several pillows suggest Rodger rehearsed his actions and he searched online for “quiet silent kill with a knife.”



	In a preface to the report, Sheriff Bill Brown wrote that Rodger “clearly suffered from significant mental illness that ultimately resulted in homicidal and suicidal rage.”



	The disturbed man was armed with three legally purchased handguns and more than 400 rounds of ammunition when he raced through Isla Vista and gunned down two women outside a sorority and then killed a sixth person.



	The spree followed a video posted by Rodger, where he warned that he would slaughter those with a good life — especially women who shunned him, leaving him a 22-year-old virgin, authorities said.



	He also left a 
 in which he detailed his life — and his disappointments with his family and women.


 
 
 
 
 







	The families of Hong, Wang and Chen have criticized the sheriff’s office for not telling them how the killings were carried out, and said they are angered by public health and legal systems that they said value the rights of the mentally ill, including Rodger, over those who may become their victims.



	“It’s Chinese New Year today and that is the most important day in the Chinese calendar,” said attorney Todd Becker. “All of our clients are of Chinese descent and it’s really an inappropriate day for this information to be released by the sheriff’s department.”



	Becker said the families, upon learning of the impending release, had asked sheriff’s officials to delay for the holiday.


 
 
 
JONATHAN ALCORN/REUTERS
 
A man looks through a window with bullet holes at a deli that was among the sites where Elliot Rodger went on a murder spree.
 
 
 







	But the shooter’s father, Peter Rodger, said in a statement he has “nothing but respect” for how investigators did their jobs and treated his family after the release of the report.



	Santa Barbara County sheriff’s deputies also came under fire for not searching 
 during a welfare check weeks earlier when his parents became concerned about his postings on YouTube.



	The incident led to California enacting the nation’s first 
 to ask a judge to remove firearms from a relative who appears to pose a threat.



	Lawmakers also bolstered firearm safety and added rules for ammunition sales.




With News Wire Services




ON A MOBILE DEVICE? 


 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Crime
 Video






 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray
A PECULIAR ITEM recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers.
 
 
 
Rooney's wife slain by lover
Carolyn Mitchell  was one of those girls who seemed destined to make headlines. And did she ever.

 
 
 
Justice Story: John du Pont
The 1856 British Guiana one-cent magenta is a tiny octagonal red inch-wide stamp. Philatelic experts say that when it is auctioned at Sotheby’s in New York on June 17, this singular postal artifact is expected to fetch something around $20 million, the largest price ever paid for a stamp. By weight and size, it may be the most valuable object in the world. The stamp is just one souvenir of the strange legacy of John E. du Pont, a man who had everything money could buy but threw it away in one moment of blind violence.
 
 
 
Justice Story: Vampire king
At more than 300 pounds and with dreadlocks cascading past his waist, Marcus Wesson, 57, was not what people generally think of when they hear the word “vampire.”
 
 
 
Justice Story: Deadly mother-in-law
A Chicago undertaker summoned to a physician’s office took one look at a corpse on an exam table and diagnosed what should have been clear to the doctor.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 