Creepy YouTube video linked to 'mass murder' near UC Santa Barbara: police - NY Daily News  
 
Creepy YouTube video linked to 'mass murder' near UC Santa Barbara: police - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
'You deserve to be annihilated’: 'Mass murder' rampage that left 7 dead near UC Santa Barbara linked to chilling YouTube video, police say
 
At least seven people are dead after a drive-by shooter opened fire in a student community next to UC Santa Barbara's campus. Police have not identified the gunman, but have linked the rampage to a creepy YouTube video of a 22-year-old man detailing his plans to ‘slay every single person’ he sees.
 
NEWS WIRE SERVICES
 
Updated: Saturday, May 24, 2014, 12:24 PM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YouTube
 
Police say a YouTube video that shows a man discussing plans to ‘slaughter’ people on the street could be linked to the shooting rampage in Isla Vista, California. 
 
 
 
 

	LOS ANGELES — A drive-by shooter went on a "mass murder" rampage near the University of California, Santa Barbara campus that left seven people dead, including the attacker, and seven others wounded, authorities said Saturday.



	Police have not identified the shooter, but Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown said that 
is linked to the shooting,



	In the ominous video, a man, who identifies himself as 22-year-old Elliot Rodger, sits in a parked car and says he has felt lonely and rejected for eight years.



	He blames his unhappiness on women who have rejected him. He also says he wants to kill men “just for the crime of living a better life” than him.
 
 
 
 
 



	“If I can’t have you, girls, I will destroy you,” he says. “You deserve to be annihilated, and I will give that to you.”



	Roger is stoic as he details his plans to “slay every single person” he sees on the street.



	“I’ll take great pleasure in slaughtering all of you. You will finally see that I am in truth the superior one, the true alpha male,” he says.
 
 
 
 
KEYT 3
 
Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown said police have not yet identified the gunman.
 
 
 



	“I will be a god compared to you. You will all be animals. You are animals, and I will slaughter you like animals,” he continues. “I hate all of you. Humanity is a disgusting, wretched, depraved species.”



	Friday night's rampage broke out around 9:30 p.m. in a UC Santa Barbara student enclave reputed for parties.  



	Brown said the shootings occurred at several sites, resulting in nine crime scenes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Palminteri/KEYT/AP
 
Friday night's rampage broke out at a University of California, Santa Barbara student enclave known for parties.
 
 
 
 
Palminteri/KEYT/AP
 
The shootings occurred at several sites, resulting in nine crime scenes.
 
 
 
 
John Palminteri/KEYT/AP
 
At least seven people were killed, including the attacker, and seven others wounded, authorities said.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



	The attacks ended when the gunman exchanged gunfire with deputies in the beachside community of Isla Vista, Brown said.



	He crashed his black BMW into a parked car, and deputies found him dead with a gunshot wound to the head, but it wasn't immediately clear whether he was killed by gunfire or if he committed suicide, he said.



	A semiautomatic handgun was recovered from the scene near the school.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Police surround crashed vehicle in Isla Vista, Calif. following shooting near University of California Santa Barbara.
 
 
 
 
Kelsey Gerckens @KEYTNC3Kelsey via Twitter
 
Santa Barbara County sheriff's spokeswoman Kelly Hoover told KEYT-TV the gunfire broke out around 9:30 p.m. Friday in the Isla Vista neighborhood.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



	Investigators know the gunman's name, but Brown said he couldn't release it pending notification of relatives.



	"We're analyzing both written and videotaped evidence that this atrocity was a premeditated mass murder," Brown said.



	A student 
, fatally striking one woman and critically injuring another woman.
 
 
 
 
 
 



	"I heard shots, scream, pain," Michael Vitak said. "All emotions. I hope she is going to be fine."



	A visibly shaken student told the station she was approached by the driver of a black BMW who flashed a handgun and asked "Hey, what's up?" The student, who didn't provide her full name, said she thought he was carrying an airsoft gun and kept walking. She said seconds later, she felt something buzz by her head and quickly realized they were bullets.



	The victims' identities were not immediately released. Brown said the injured were being treated for gunshot wounds and traumatic injuries, including at least one person who underwent surgery for life-threatening injuries.



	Isla Vista, a roughly half-square mile community next to UC Santa Barbara's campus and picturesque beachside cliffs, is home to 23,000 people. The area has a reputation for excessive partying. Last month, an annual spring bash spiraled into violence as young people clashed with police and tossed rocks and bottles. A university police officer and four deputies were injured and 130 people were arrested.
 
 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


News
 Video






 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 