Seven Dead, Several Hospitalized in Isla Vista Shootings | Latest News  - Home 

Seven Dead, Several Hospitalized in Isla Vista Shootings | Latest News  - Home


















Back To Top












Hello
, 
!
                 | 


  
            








 
            


























Santa Barbara


66° F


Clear
















Santa Maria


58° F


Clear
















San Luis Obispo


66° F


Partly Cloudy
















Ventura


61° F


Clear


































































































































Seven Dead, Several Hospitalized in Isla Vista Shootings





            Author:  
Beth Farnsworth, KEYT - KCOY - KKFX Anchor/Reporter, 








Published On: May 24 2014 12:06:28 AM CDT


 


Updated On: May 24 2014 06:45:34 PM CDT
















































In total, the sheriff confirmed seven people were killed, including the gunman; seven others are hospitalized either with gunshot wounds or traumatic injuries -- one with life-threatening injuries; there are nine separate crime scenes.






ISLA VISTA, Calif. - 


Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown revealed new details about Friday night's drive by shootings in Isla Vista during a Saturday morning news conference, including a new death toll and a possible link to an 
.
Brown said the initial call came in to dispatch at 9:27 p.m. Friday night as multiple gunshots.
Deputies in the area found several victims and received information about the suspect and vehicle involved.
Witnesses described seeing a black BMW speeding through the streets, spraying bullets at people and various targets near El Embarcadero and Segovia Roads and the top of the loop along Del Playa.
Brown said at 9:33 p.m. the suspect exchanged gunfire with deputies then veered down Del Playa and crashed into a parked car. Deputies found the suspect inside the BMW dead from a gunshot wound to the head. Brown said he did not know if the suspect was shot and killed by deputies or if the wound was self-inflicted.
The sheriff said a semi automatic handgun was recovered from the scene and believes the suspect acted alone.
In total, the sheriff confirmed seven people were killed, including the gunman; seven others are hospitalized either with gunshot wounds or traumatic injuries -- one with life-threatening injuries; there are nine separate crime scenes.


Gallery










Slideshow: Gunman Shoots and Kills Six in Isla Vista






























Slideshow: Gunman Shoots and Kills Six in Isla Vista












































Published On: May 24 2014 02:33:45 AM CDT


 


Updated On: May 27 2014 12:01:45 PM CDT






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































The time frame between the first 911 call to the discovery of the dead suspect was ten minutes.
Multiple witnesses say they saw two people inside the suspect's vehicle, however, during the press conference, Sheriff Brown would neither confirm nor deny whether there was a passenger in the car.
At this time, the sheriff is not releasing the suspect's name, although he has been identified.
Brown called the suspect "severely mentally disturbed" and said, "This was a premeditated mass murder."
Word on the street quickly spread about an ominous YouTube video posted by a young man who identified himself as 
 The nearly seven minute long rant blasts women who've ignored or rejected him over the past eight years and warns that he will "punish you all for it."
When questioned about the video during the news conference, Sheriff Brown indicated investigators were familiar with it and are looking into whether Roger was connected with the crime.
The victims include someone who was shot dead inside the I.V. Delimart on Pardall Road. The market windows are pocked with bullet holes. Another crime scene is marked near the 7-11 convenience store.
Xavier Mozejewski told NewsChannel 3 reporter Victoria Sanchez that he witnessed some of the violence and described it as an "old western shoot-out."
Michael Vitak, a student from the Czech Republic, told Sanchez what he witnessed.
"Guys in a BMW. Maybe they were trying to prove they're tough," Vitak said during a live televised interview. Vitak saw them shooting at two girls; one was shot dead, the other was critically hurt.
"I heard shots, screams, pain," said Vitak. "All emotions. I hope she is going to be fine," he said.
Vitak said it was too dark to see the suspects' faces.
About the same time the drive-by shootings occurred, the California Highway Patrol website logged a hit and run along Del Playa that left someone with major leg and head trauma.
NewsChannel 3 senior reporter John Palminteri said via phone, "It is a horrible scene out here."
Palminteri described multiple ambulances, a black BMW that slammed into as many as two cars, and a body covered with a yellow tarp lying in the road on Del Playa. He indicated the deceased may have been shot by a deputy or police officer.
By 12:15 a.m. Saturday morning, Palminteri updated viewers that he'd seen a total of four body bags.
One woman identified as Sierra told Sanchez she was approached by two men in a black BMW. The driver flashed a small black handgun and asked '"Hey, what's up?"'
Sierra, who was visibly shaken, said she thought it was an airsoft gun and kept walking. She said seconds later, she felt something buzz by her head and quickly realized they were bullets. Three or four of them.
Sierra said she ran into a nearby home filled with strangers and explained what happened. She looked down and saw her iPhone had been shattered.
Brown said the scope of the investigation has allied agencies working together, including UC Police, the California Highway Patrol, Santa Barbara Police, investigators with the District Attorney's Office, California State Parks law enforcement and criminalists with the Department of Justice crime lab.
The sheriff is asking for the public's help with the investigation and offered the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Office Tipline to anyone with information: 805-681-4171.








Copyright © 2014 KEYT - NPG of California, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
























Comments



                The views expressed are not those of this company or its affiliated companies. Please note by clicking on "Post" you acknowledge that you have read the Terms Of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. 






Please enable JavaScript to view the 




































Source: Santa Barbara Co. Sheriff's Dept.








The Santa Barbara County District Attorney's Office announced Thursday the filing of misdemeanor charges against former KCOY 12 news anchor Paula Lopez Ochoa related to a DUI arrest on September 6.






















Haggen stores is set to make another change, within two months, after announcing a sell off of its properties in the Pacific Southwest.  A plan will be presented to a federal judge in mid October.
















The Register-Guard








[Breaking news update 11:38 p.m. ET]
The gunman who opened fire at Oregon's Umpqua Community College targeted Christians specifically, according to the father of a wounded student. 
Before going into spinal surgery, Anastasia Boylan told her father and...
















Source: Ventura County Sheriff's Dept.








Police continue to look for two suspects who they say robbed the Chevron gas station located at 522 Las Posas Road in Camarillo.






















Fire investigators have determined that a blaze that damaged the Planned Parenthood building in Thousand Oaks late Wednesday night was arson.
















Source: Santa Barbara Co. Sheriff's Dept.








The Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Office says that its narcotics detectives arrested a Santa Maria man for allegedly selling drugs at Johnny's Smoke Shop located at 1975 south Broadway in Santa Maria.






















The Ventura County Environmental Health Division says the best way to prevent additional West Nile cases is to keep the mosquito breeding population under control.






















The Oregon shooting brings back terrible memories for many students in Isla Vista. A similar killing spree over a year ago killed six students. Now, the Santa Barbara Police Department are educating people on what to do if they end up in a similar situation.






















Check out these great rainbow photos from the Central Coast this morning submitted by our viewers.
















Andreas Rentz/Getty Images








Take a look at the career of singer-actress Janet Jackson, who is releasing "Unbreakable," her first album in more than seven years, on Friday.





























                                Advertisement







































































































© 2014 NPG of California, LLC




In association with:















 | 






















































































Close




















Reset Session - Logout/Re-attempt Sign In


Close










Confirm Unsubscribe


Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?


Yes


No










Confirm Delete


Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?


Yes


No










You are logged out


Your profile has been deleted.


Close












Please set an email address for your profile





                                No email address was supplied by
                                
.
                                To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.
                            



                                Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.
                            


Email








Save and Close


Cancel














Personalize Profile




For a more personalized experience, please supply the following 
optional
 information.




Display Name










Zip Code










Submit


Cancel

















