Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray - NY Daily News  
 
Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice Story: Serial killer Dana Sue Gray offed elderly women so she could shop with their credit cards     
 
Still 'desperate' after all these years, now she sells her panties on the Internet
 
 BY  
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Saturday, May 31, 2014, 11:00 PM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
David Bauman/The Press-Enterprise/PE.com
 
Serial killer Dana Sue Gray in a Riverside courtroom. She avoided the death penalty by pleading guilty to two murders.
 
 
 
 


A peculiar item recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers. It was a pair of plain white panties, with the name Dana Sue Gray and a number, W76776, scrawled at the crotch. The asking price was $250.



	Twenty years earlier, Gray, now 56, had a different way of making money. She murdered old ladies and stole their credit cards.



	“I got desperate to buy things,” she told detectives. “Shopping puts me at rest.”



	Three women died so she could go buy things. A fourth miraculously survived and helped put an end to Gray’s slay-and-spend spree.



	Gray’s first victim was Norma Davis, 86, who lived in a gated community of Canyon Lake, Calif., about an hour and 15 minutes south of Los Angeles.
 
 
 
 
 
Police composite sketch bore a strong resemblance to Dana Sue Gray.
 
 
 



	On Valentine’s Day 1994, a worried friend checked in on the widow. She found a bloody corpse. Davis had been strangled and then stabbed 11 times. Two knives were left in the body and the neck wounds were so deep they nearly took her head off. Police found a footprint from a small-sized running shoe at the scene, but little else.



	A couple weeks later, there was another killing in Canyon Lake. June Roberts turned 66 on February 28, but friends could not get through to her to wish her a happy birthday. She had been strangled and bludgeoned with a decanter.



	In both cases, little seemed to have been taken from the victims’ homes; even diamond rings, cash and checkbooks were left behind. Then, Roberts’ daughter told police that her mother’s bank called to report a flurry of activity on her credit card the day she died.



	Among the purchases were swimsuits, cowboy boots, a ski mask, vodka, and a massage at a ritzy spa. Opium perfume, fancy shoes and sneakers — in both men’s and women’s sizes — were also on the list. Clerks, hairdressers, and waiters described the woman who used the cards as a petite, well-dressed blonde who drove a brown Cadillac and was accompanied by either a small boy or a tall, dark-haired man.
 
 
 
 
Dark Vomit True Crime
 
Serial killer Dana Sue Gray signed her "prison worn" panties and put them up for sale on the Internet.
 
 
 



	Cops were closing in on Gray, but they were not quick enough to prevent the next attack.



	On March 10, Dorinda Hawkins, 58, was alone, minding an antiques shop in Lake Elsinore when a young woman with bleached blond hair stepped in. After some small talk, the woman asked Hawkins to show her a couple of paintings propped against the wall. The shopkeeper bent down to get them. At that moment, she felt a rope around her neck. She put up a fierce struggle but could not get away. The last thing Hawkins remembered hearing before she blacked out was her assailant saying, “Relax. Just relax.”



	Hawkins told police that the would-be killer spoke those words in a quiet, soothing voice, the kind a doctor or nurse might use.



	She had no idea that her observation was a bullseye. Until just recently, her attacker had worked as a nurse. It had been Dana Sue Gray’s ambition since she was a teenager and watched her mother die of cancer. This early trauma inspired her to learn the healing arts, wrote Kathy Braidhill in her book on the case, “To Die For.”
 
 
 
 
 
Police markers dot crime scene where Dora Beebe, 87, was killed in her Sun City condo.
 
 
 



	Her parents had divorced years earlier, and after her mother was gone, Dana went to live with her father, Russell Ambrust, and tried to blend into his family. High school friends remembered young Dana as athletic, an expert skydiver, and a daredevil, always out for adventure. In her yearbook, she wrote that her favorite pastime was “Getting into trouble,” and that her favorite place to be was “in free fall.”



	She studied hard, achieving her ambition of becoming a nurse in five years. While on the job in 1987, she met her future husband, William Gray, a machine operator. By 1990, she had landed a well-paying job at a medical center in Wildomar. The couple was making good money, but they were spending it as quickly as it came in on luxuries — two cars in addition to the Cadillac, an ultralight airplane, a couple boats, a house, and silk-screening equipment.



	It wasn’t long before the Grays were bankrupt and filing for divorce. More misfortune followed: foreclosure, a miscarriage, and loss of her job. By early 1994, she was living in a trailer with a divorced machinist and his 5-year-old son. For money, before she turned to murder, she produced silk-screened t-shirts.



	With the description from Hawkins and the credit card trail, detectives had pinpointed Gray and were watching her, but she still eluded them long enough to kill again.
 
 
 
 
 
Shopoholic Dana Sue Gray after she was taken into police custody. "I got desperate to buy things," she told detectives. "Shopping puts me at rest." Among the things she bought with credit cards stolen from her victims: swimsuits, cowboy boots and vodka.
 
 
 



	On March 16, Dora Beebe, 87, was found in a pool of blood in her Sun City condominium. She had been strangled and beaten with a steam iron. The same day, a young well-dressed woman withdrew $1,700 from the widow’s account.



	Police arrested Gray the next day.



	Gray admitted to the thefts but denied the murders. Then she entered a plea of insanity, which would have meant the possibility of a death sentence. In 1998, she changed her plea to guilty, admitting to the Beebe and Roberts killings and the attempted murder of Hawkins.



	As part of her plea deal, the judge agreed to not charge Gray for the third murder. She was sentenced to life, without parole. She remains at the women’s prison in Chowchilla, where she sometimes sends collectibles to murderabilia websites. Someone has already scooped up the $250 autographed panties, but other objects are still up for grabs, including $65 hand tracings and a “prison worn” t-shirt, decorated with a drawing of a blue butterfly perched on a skeleton’s hand.
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Crime
 Video






 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray
A PECULIAR ITEM recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers.
 
 
 
Rooney's wife slain by lover
Carolyn Mitchell  was one of those girls who seemed destined to make headlines. And did she ever.

 
 
 
Justice Story: John du Pont
The 1856 British Guiana one-cent magenta is a tiny octagonal red inch-wide stamp. Philatelic experts say that when it is auctioned at Sotheby’s in New York on June 17, this singular postal artifact is expected to fetch something around $20 million, the largest price ever paid for a stamp. By weight and size, it may be the most valuable object in the world. The stamp is just one souvenir of the strange legacy of John E. du Pont, a man who had everything money could buy but threw it away in one moment of blind violence.
 
 
 
Justice Story: Vampire king
At more than 300 pounds and with dreadlocks cascading past his waist, Marcus Wesson, 57, was not what people generally think of when they hear the word “vampire.”
 
 
 
Justice Story: Deadly mother-in-law
A Chicago undertaker summoned to a physician’s office took one look at a corpse on an exam table and diagnosed what should have been clear to the doctor.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 
 













































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 