	10 dead, 7 hurt in school shooting in Roseburg | 						OregonLive.com  


	10 dead, 7 hurt in school shooting in Roseburg | 						OregonLive.com
































































Menu


























































































































Photos








Videos
























































Follow Us






Subscribe















        Back to Main Menu
    

























































































































        Back to Main Menu
    





















        Back to Main Menu
    



























        Back to Main Menu
    









































































































































        Back to Main Menu
    





































































        Back to Main Menu
    







































































































































        Back to Main Menu
    








































Off Season Sports













        Back to Main Menu
    

























































































































































        Back to Main Menu
    































































        Back to Main Menu
    



















































        Back to Main Menu
    



















































        Back to Main Menu
    













































        Back to Main Menu
    































































        Back to Main Menu
    































































        Back to Main Menu
    







































        Back to Main Menu
    



















































        Back to Main Menu
    



























                                    Back to Main Menu
                                












































Back to Main Menu




Close




Customize Your Weather




Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)














Congratulations!


Your weather is set to 
. You can change the location at any time.












AccuWeather.com Quick Look




























Search


Search
























Search OregonLive.com












Account


Sign In












Close






Sign in to
OregonLive.com


























Remember me
















Don't have an account?


, or sign in with any of these services:




























You are signed in as
























Favorite Schools
expand






Favorite Teams
close






















Subscribe




























































comments










10 dead, 7 hurt in school shooting in Roseburg






























































Umpqua Community College shooting - what we know so far. Updates until 6:09pm.





















	



	



By

	
		
	
		
			


The Oregonian


 


on October 01, 2015 at  5:25 PM, updated 
October 02, 2015 at  7:36 AM




























































 


Ten people were killed, including the gunman, and seven injured in a mass shooting Thursday at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg. The Oregonian/OregonLive has confirmed the shooter is Chris Harper-Mercer, a 26-year-old resident of nearby Winchester. Here are the latest updates:


9:04: 
"It breaks my heart that this happened in our small town, but it warms my heart to see everyone come together to honor those we lost." -- Message from community member in memorial book at Roseburg vigil


8:43: 
In Roseburg, an Umpqua Community College faculty member says: "We know this is not going to be our defining moment, we will not be terrified." A mother of six asks that the parents of the shooter be included in people's prayers. "They lost a son today, too." 


8:36:
 In a vigil at Portland City Hall, a mic is open to anyone who wants to speak. People touched by the shooting are asked to go first. Some are from Roseburg. 


8:34: 
Hundreds gathered in Roseburg's Stewart Park for a community vigil.


8:20:
 Oregon State Police Superintendent Richard Evans says of the sheriff's decision not to name the shooter: "There's a national discussion and police movement not to give attention to a gunman in a mass shooting."


8:15:
 CBS News quotes unnamed law enforcement sources that four guns -- a combination of pistols and a rifle -- were found at the shooting scene.


7:27: 
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin says tactical teams and bomb squads have cleared all the Umpqua Community College buildings and are going through the vehicles in the parking lot.


7:25: 
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin: "We do know we have at least two heroic officers who went into the building and exchanged gunfire with him." Oregon State Police is handling the officer-involved shooting, he said, and will release information from an investigation in the future.


7:20: 
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin:"We have information that leads us to believe that we know who the shooter is. The official ID will come from the Medical Examiner's office. Let me be very clear: I will not name the shooter. I will not give him the credit he probably sought prior to this horrific and cowardly act. Media will get the name confirmed in time, but you will never hear me mention his name. We encourage media to not use it, we encourage you not to repeat it, not to glorify and create sensationalism for him. He in no way deserves this."


7:16: 
Law enforcement will begin press conference shortly.


7:08: 
Officers are now escorting out neighbors at the Winchester apartment complex listed as Harper-Mercer's address.


7:06: 
At 7 p.m. at least six police units pulled up to the apartment listed as Harper-Mercer's with officers in camouflage. They brought police dogs.


6:52
: The Oregonian/OregonLive has confirmed the shooter is Chris Harper-Mercer, a 26-year-old resident of nearby Winchester.


6:39: 
The Oregonian/OregonLive is on scene at a Winchester apartment complex listed in voting records as Chris Harper-Mercer's address. Sheriff's deputies are also there, and the complex is blocked off by crime tape.


6:09: 
CBS News is reporting 26-year-old Chris Harper-Mercer has been identified as the gunman who died after opening fire at Umpqua Community College and getting into a shootout with police in Roseburg on Thursday. Oregon Gov. Kate Brown said during an afternoon news conference that the shooter is a 20-year-old man. Authorities have not yet confirmed the identity of the shooter or the victims.


5:20 p.m.: 
Portland officials announce they will hold a vigil in front of City Hall with the Oregon Symphony at 8 p.m.


5:18: 
During a news conference at Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, a doctor says, "The next few days are my biggest concern for our staff."


5:16: 
A Mercy Medical Center doctor says retired physicians have called to offer their services. Hospitals from across the country have sent flowers and pizzas to Mercy staff.
 


5:14: 
Mercy Medical Center doctor says, "The best way to describe it is controlled chaos. We practice and we do drills."
 


5:11: 
Mercy Health Medical Center doctor says, during a news in conference, that of the 10 patients who arrived at Mercy, three were transferred to PeaceHealth in Springfield, two were treated and four people went to the operating room -- three are stable now, but one remains in critical condition. Another person died in the emergency room. Each victim had gunshot wounds, some multiple. Their wounds ranged from shots to the extremities, the chest and bones.
 


5:04: 
Mercy Medical Center will have 
 Friday at noon at the west parking lot for anyone interested in donating.


4:59: 
According to the Douglas County Sheriff's Office Twitter account, Thursday's shooting is a "mass-casualty event." Their protocols for mass-casulaty events require that they not release names for 24 to 48 hours. 
 


4:57: 
All of the injured were initially transported to Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg. The three most critically injured then were transported to other hospitals.


4:54: 
Counselors are available for Umpqua Community College students, staff and their families who need them in Douglas Hall at Douglas County Fairgrounds.


4:53: 
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin says he can confirm 10 people were killed and seven wounded -- three of whom are in critical condition. He says he cannot provide any information yet about the shooter.


4:48: 
PeaceHealth spokesman tells KGW that of the victims there, one is in critical condition, and two are in serious condition.


4:18: 
The Roseburg NRToday 
 to Vice President Joe Biden in 2013 and interviewed Hanlin about it. The sheriff told the paper that his beliefs were no secret and had gotten him elected twice.
 


4:15: 
 that Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin sent a letter to Vice President Joe Biden in 2013, urging Biden to "not tamper with or attempt to amend the 2nd amendment. Gun control is NOT the answer to preventing heinous crimes like school shootings." The Oregonian/OregonLive has not yet confirmed their report. 


4:09: 
Multiple pastors confirm there will be a candlelight prayer vigil at Stewart Park at 8 p.m. Thursday.

Several churches, including New Life Christian Center, Wellspring Bible Fellowship, and Redeemer's Fellowship are currently open for grief counseling. From 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday, Redeemer's Fellowship will be open for counseling.


Rob Johnson, the associate youth pastor at Wellspring Bible Fellowship: "We're open to anyone who wants to pray or sit in silence. We also have counselors, so if they want to talk, we're here, and we plan to be here through the night into tomorrow."


3:59: 
The Oregonian/OregonLive has published
 (with three or more shootings)


3:57: 
.
















































































































 


 





 


3:46:
 Gov. Kate Brown 
that flags at all public buildings in Oregon would be immediately lowered to half-staff until sunset Friday. "My heart is heavy as we continue to learn more about today's tragic events," Brown, on the way to Roseburg, said in a statement.
 


3:45:
 President Barack Obama: "Each time this happens, I am going to bring this up. Each time this happens, I'm going to say, 'We can actually do something about it.' But we're going to have to change the laws. I've got to have Congress, state legislators, governors who are willing to work with me on this. I hope and pray that I don't have to come out again during my tenure as president to offer my condolences. But based on my experience as president, I can't guarantee that."


3:43
: President Barack Obama: "This is a political choice that we make to allow this to happen every few months in America. We are collectively answerable to those families who lose their loved ones because of our inaction. When Americans are killed in mine disasters, we work to make mines safer. ... When roads are unsafe, we fix them to reduce auto fatalities. We have seatbelt laws because we know it saves lives. The notion that gun violence is somehow different and our freedom and our constitution prohibits any modest regulation of how we use a deadly weapon when there are law-abiding gun owners all across the country who can hunt, protect their families, under such regulations, it doesn't make sense."


3:42
: President Barack Obama: "What's also routine is that somebody somewhere will say Obama politicized this issue. This is something we should politicize. It is relevant to our common life together, to the body politic."
 


3:41:
 President Barack Obama: "Right now I can imagine the press releases being cranked out. We need more guns they'll argue, fewer gun safety laws. Does anybody really believe that? There are scores of responsible gun owners in this country. They know that's not true."


3:40
: President Barack Obama: "Somehow this has become routine. The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine. The conversation in the aftermath of it. We've become numb to this. We talked about this after Columbia and Blacksburg, after Newberg, after Aurora, after Charleston. It cannot be this easy for someone who wants to inflict harm on other people to get their hands on a gun."
 


3:37: 
President Barack Obama:"We don't yet know why this individual did what he did. It's fair to say anybody who does this has a sickness in their minds, regardless of what they think their motivations may be. But we are not the only country on earth that has people with mental illnesses who want to do harm to other people. We are the only advanced country on earth that sees these kind of mass shootings every few months."


3:35: 
President Barack Obama: "In the coming days, we'll learn about the victims, young men and women who were studying and learning and working hard, their eyes set on the future, their dreams of what they could make of their lives.


"But, as I said just a few months ago, and I said a few months before that, and I said each time we see one of these mass shootings, our thoughts and prayers are not enough. It's not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel. It does nothing to prevent his carnage from being inflicted some place else in America next week or a couple months from now."


3:29: 
President Barack Obama: "I want to thank all the first responders whose bravery likely saved some lives today."


3:27: 
President Barack Obama: "I've been to Roseburg, Oregon. There are really good people there."


3:25: 
President Barack Obama: "There's been another mass shooting in America, this time at a community college in Oregon. It means there are more American families, moms, dads, children, whose lives have been changed forever. That means there's another community stunned with grief, and communities across the country forced to relive their own anguish, and parents across the country who are scared because it might have been their children."


3:17: 
The Oregonian/OregonLive's Kelly House has 
, based on audio from a 911 tape recorded during the tragedy.
 


3:10: 
At the direction of Portland Police Chief Lawrence P. O'Dea III, Portland's Assistant Chief of Operations Bob Day has asked that all precincts provide an increased law enforcement presence at school campuses to enhance public safety.
 


3:06: 
President Barack Obama will speak at 3:20 PST about the Umpqua Community College shooting.




3:04: 
The 
 twitter account reports, "Umpqua Community College will be CLOSED until Monday, October 5. Student activities for the weekend have been cancelled"


3:02: 
Oregon's top federal prosecutor says that he and other government officials have heard the same social media rumors that the public has about the shooter issuing "some sort of race-related manifesto" before the crime.
 
Billy J. Williams, the acting U.S. Attorney for Oregon, told The Oregonian/OregonLive at shortly before 3 p.m. that he was about to board a plane to head to the command post. There he would meet with the FBI's Gregory T. Bretzing, special agent in charge of the Portland Field Office, and other local authorities.
 
"Right now, the Douglas County Sheriff's Office is the lead (investigative) agency," Williams says.
 
"What a senseless loss of life – it's tragic," he says. "Our thoughts and prayers go out to those families."


2:58: 
Asked how board members are responding to Thursday's shooting, Wendy Weikum simply said, "Praying." 
 
Weikum, a nine-year board member, first saw the news about the shooting on Facebook. But soon after, Weikum got a call from a student.
 
"She was very shaken up," Weikum says.
 
The student told Weikum she had been in the classroom next to where the shooting happened. She had called Weikum to let her know that she wouldn't be able to make her piano lesson tonight.
 
"I didn't ask any specifics," Weikum says. "She just said she heard it."
 
Weikum says the school community is very close.
 
"My heart goes out to all of those who experienced some loss and those who were injured also," she says.


2:57: 


2:56: 


2:52: 


2:50: 


2:46
: 


2:32: 
Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg says they have 10 victims from the shooting.


2:28: 
Amy L. Fair, an Umpqua Community College associate professor of English, wrote on Facebook that she was in a classroom that shares a wall with the classroom where the shooting began. She writes, "I have no cell phone, car keys, house keys, or wallet, but I'm home. So glad to be safe, but I'm still a little shell-shocked. Those of us who were on campus know less than everyone else -- they weren't telling us anything as they put us on buses and drove us offsite. BIG THANKS to local authorities who were on site within minutes, and to our UCC security & administrative staff, who stayed organized under incredible pressure."


2:27: 
While it's not yet clear whose bullets took the shooter down, an expert in mass killings said that such gunmen rarely exchange gunfire with police.


"Shootouts are rare," said Professor Jay Corzine at the University of Central Florida, in Orlando. "But they do happen (roughly 12 to 15 percent of the time). Most of these people who stick around and wait for the cops to show up, it's a suicide by cop thing. They know they're not going to win that."


2:24: 
Vanessa Becker, an Umpqua Community College board member tells The Oregonian/OregonLive, "It's a tragedy – I'm speechless. It's just really sad, and we're really concerned about our students and our staff and our community."
 
Becker says she didn't know details about the shooting because she was in Brookings when she received word. She jumped in her car and has been driving back to Roseburg ever since. 
 
Board members, she said, have been working with law enforcement and are trying to figure out what's next. 


2:17: 
Authorities, which include Oregon State Police, sheriff's deputies from around the area, and the FBI, are still combing through the campus as part of the investigation, according to Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin. 
 


2:15: 
PeaceHealth will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m., KGW reports. The hospital is treating "three females, aged 18 - 34."


1:58: 
Two deputy U.S. marshals based in Eugene were in Roseburg this morning when they heard the shooting call over the radio and raced to the college, said Supervisory Deputy U.S. Marshal Eric Wahlstrom, in Portland.
 
"Two of the guys from the Eugene office were already out working a fugitive case in Roseburg, so they responded," he said.
 
Two more deputy marshals raced up from their Medford office and another in Eugene also raced to the scene.


1:50
: Oregon Governor Kate Brown says the shooter was a 20-year-old male. She is now en route to Roseburg.


1:45
:  Douglas County Sheriff says he cannot confirm a death count yet.


1:43
: Douglas County Sheriff says "the shooter is deceased."


1:42
: Douglas County Sheriff says the shooter "was a male."


1:40
: Obama was briefed on the shooting by Homeland Security Advisor Lisa Monaco, a White House official said today. 


1:38: 
Oregon Governor Kate Brown will host a press conference momentarily.


1:35: 
State officials say they've unofficially heard the number of fatalities stands at 13. That figure comes from a coordinating command center, but the Department of Justice could not confirm that number, spokeswoman Kristina Edmunson said in a text message. It's not clear if that tally includes the shooter.


1:21
: Various news outlets are reporting Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum said 13 are dead.


1:19: 
From the 911 dispatch: "I need all traffic to (incomprehensible) emergency. Please have these cities dispatch as many ambulances as possible to this incident we have upwards of 20 victims."


1:13: 
From the 911 dispatch: "Suspect is dead, we've got multiple gunshot wounds were going to need multiple ambulances on scene." Dispatcher: "Copy suspect is dead we have multiple injured on scene and we're sending multiple ambulances."


 






























































The Umpqua Community College entrance at Highway 99 and Umpqua College Road is closed after a gunman opened fire on campus Thursday morning










1:10: 
From the 911 dispatch, seven minutes after the initial call: "Code 4, suspect is down." At eight minutes after the call, "He's not breathing, is in Snyder Hall." At nine minutes after the call, "Suspect is down, we've got multiple gunshot wounds were going to need multiple ambulances on scene."


1:06: 
Oregon State Police have issued a press release: "The only information available at this time is:


It is believed there is only one shooter who is no longer a threat.


There is no current threat to the community.


Staff and family are being taken by bus to the Douglas County Fairgrounds to meet family. Emergency personnel are urging the public to avoid the area as it could hamper emergency efforts.


There has been a Joint Information Center established at the Douglas County Sheriff's Office in Roseburg. Media- please do not call PIO phones at this time as it is only slowing the gathering of information for the upcoming releases. Thank you for the understanding."


1:04: 
Brandon Polamalu, cousin to NFL star and Roseburg alum Troy Polamalu, teaches in Synder Hall. He sent his mom a text at 10:51: "There's a shooting on campus. I'm OK mom."


1:03: 
The Oregonian/OregonLive staffers are reviewing 911 tape from the incident calls, which first came in at 10:37 a.m. The incident opens with a dispatcher: "UCC this is going to be the Snyder hall. The...somebody is outside one of the doors shooting through the door there is a female in the computer lab. We do have one female that has been shot at this time. We're still (incomprehensible) to get further."


12:57 p.m.: 
The Register-Guard in Eugene, quoting a witness, reports that the shooter was a male, acted alone and was shot by police. The newspaper also cites multiple witnesses who say the shooting was isolated to one classroom: a writing and speech class in Snyder Hall. None of these details have been confirmed by police.


12:56: 
Dr. Jillanne Michell Associate Professor, English


Umqua Community College English Professor Jillanne Michell was in Snyder Hall at the time of the shooting.


"That is the building where the shooting did take place," she said, adding that it's possible additional shots were fired elsewhere. 


"I heard the shots," Michell said. "It was a lot."


12:54: 
The FBI is sending agents and specialty personnel from its offices in Medford, Eugene, Salem and Portland to assist with the active shooter investigation in Roseburg, says agency spokeswoman Beth Anne Steele.


12:52: 
The Oregonian/OregonLive's Andrew Greif is at Umpqua Community College. Greif said he saw half a dozen school buses and four ambulances leave. Grief said no law enforcement spokespeople can confirm the number wounded or deceased. 


12:46 
The Red Cross is on scene at the Douglas County Fairgrounds, where students are being bused. 


12:44: 
Roseburg's NRToday 
, "Kathleen Nickel, a spokesperson for Mercy Medical Center, said six patients have been brought to Mercy Medical Center and they are expecting two more."


12:25
: Umpqua student Kayla Marie 
 on Twitter that she and others are being bused off campus.


12:13: 
Michael Griffiths, CEO of Life Flight, says he's been told there are at least six critically injured patients at the community college. They have sent six helicopters to the Roseburg Airport to assist with transporting victims to hospitals. No word yet on which hospitals.


12:12: 
Lorie Andrews, 57, lives on Songbird Court across the street from the campus. She was sitting on her back porch Thursday morning when she heard several shots. Minutes later, she said, cop car after cop car started flooding the area.


"Ambulances are still coming in," she said at 11:45 a.m. "Cops are still coming in."


She estimated roughly 20 ambulances and 75 police cars, including police officials in their private vehicles, pouring into the area. Officials aren't allowing students to leave campus in their own vehicles, Andrews said, they are bussing them out.
 


"Everybody is in shock. Very very shocked," Andrews said.









12:11: 
Roseburg's NRToday reports that Jared Norman said he heard shots and "then everyone was running." The nursing student is locked down in the cafeteria with 50 other students right now. "They've heard there is a shooting, but they don't know what's going on. And they're scared."


12:05: 
Several victims likely will be sent to Eugene and Springfield. "This would be a disaster-level response," said Jim Godbold, director of communications at PeaceHealth Riverbend Hospital in Springfield.


"We're trying to prepare for a half-dozen or more victims," he said.


The hospital activated its trauma response team and cleared all elective surgeries. Godbold said the only comparable incident for which the entire hospital mobilized was in 1998 during the Thurston High School shooting, in which two people were killed and 25 wounded. 


11:57: 
Eugene's KVAL reports, "Seven to 10 people are dead and at least 20 people were wounded" according to Oregon State Police Lt. Bill Fugate, an agency spokesman.


11:51: 
According to dispatchers on the Oregon State Police scanner, two people are dead and 11 have been transported to hospitals, one is on Life Flight and another is waiting Life Flight.


11:38 
Douglas County dispatchers say a suspect has been detained. They could not confirm how many people were wounded.


11:31
: Nine agents with the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosive – seven from Portland, two from Eugene – raced to the scene and were en route when a supervisor was reached at 11:29 a.m.
 
"We're rolling to help," said Colene Domenech, a resident agent in charge of the Portland office. The agents will do "whatever they ask us to do."


A shooter has been reported at 
, according to the Douglas County Fire District's Twitter account. It's unconfirmed how many wounded or whether the shooting is still ongoing at the Roseburg campus.


Sgt. Dwes Hutson, a spokesman for the Douglas County Sheriff's Office, says officers responded around 10:40 a.m. to reports of a shooting at the college. Huston could not confirm whether anyone was injured.


According to the News Review newspaper in Roseburg, police and emergency crews are at Umpqua Community College after a reported gunman shot upward of 20 people on campus.


Scanner reports indicate that the suspect is down. Multiple ambulances are on the scene. Some media outlets are reporting at least 15 people are dead.


Police are clearing the science building at this time.


(Check back as we continue to update this report in real time.)


-- The Oregonian


If you are on-scene, call 503-294-1344.




































































Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin addresses media, answers questions for the first time after Umpqua Community College Shooting Thursday afternoon.




































































Related Stories


























Most Read










Active Discussions








News Videos




















































About Us
























































Subscribe Today


































Already a Subscriber






































OregonLive.com Sections














































































































Your Regional News Pages


















































Mobile






 | 














More on OregonLive.com
















































































Follow Us






 |
						
 |
						
 | 
						
 | 
						
 | 
						

















            Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
            
 and
            





            © 2015 Oregon Live LLC. All rights reserved (
).

            The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,
            except with the prior written permission of Oregon Live LLC.





            apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.
            































