 Umpqua College terrorist identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer: report  


 Umpqua College terrorist identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer: report








 
 
















 
 








 
 






 
 






 
 






 
 






 
 








 
 






 
 






 
 






 
 






 






 
 




 








 


























 


















































Details emerge about Oregon killer — a self-described conservative who loved guns and conspiracy theories
Umpqua College terrorist identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer: report
‘Let the little homo sue': TN official bashes teen who wanted to bring boyfriend to homecoming dance
Vatican feels ‘sense of regret’ for pope’s meeting with Kim Davis
Alabama to stop issuing driver’s licenses in counties with 75% black registered voters
Favorite Duggar pastor John Piper: Sex is only for Christians and everyone else is a prostitute
Ted Cruz’s radio buddy blames blacks for racism: ‘Black people are obsessed with white people’
Trevor Noah proves Donald Trump is ‘presidential’ by comparing him to Gadhafi and Idi Amin
Oregon sheriff slammed for letter attacking Joe Biden over ‘irresponsible’ gun control
Less than 90 minutes after Oregon shooting, CNN analyst suggests school’s ‘gun free zone’ to blame
Umpqua College terrorist identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer: report
 
                   






Chris Harper Mercer [
]




Don't miss stories. Follow Raw Story!


























The 26-year-old man that left 10 people dead and seven others wounded in a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon was identified on Thursday night as Chris Harper Mercer, 
 and 
 reported.


This story has been updated










Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin did not identify Mercer as the gunman during a press conference on Thursday evening. The shooter died at the scene after exchanging gunfire with authorities.


CBS also 
 that four firearms, including a rifle and pistols, were recovered from the scenes. The purported gunman was originally described as being 20 years old by Gov. Kate Brown during a statement earlier in the day. 


Update, 10:23 p.m. EST:
 Hanlin said at a press conference later in the evening that he would not confirm the gunman’s identity, saying he would not give him the attention he wanted.


“You will never hear me mention the shooter’s name,” Hanlin said.


Update, 9:49 p.m. EST:
 
 that 
 registered under the name Chris Harper Mercer is listed as being in Torrance, California. However, Mercer and his mother reportedly moved to Winchester, Oregon, about four miles away from the Umpqua campus in Roseburg. 


Mercer’s page also contained several photos promoting the Irish Republican Army, as seen below:




 from a dating site profile attributed to Mercer, in which he describes himself as “not religious, but spiritual” and as a Republican. That image can be seen below:




















About the Author
Arturo R. García is the managing editor at Racialicious.com. He is based in San Diego, California and has written for both print and broadcast media, including contributions to GlobalComment.com, The Root and Comment Is Free. Follow him on Twitter at @ABoyNamedArt






Next on Raw Story >




































By commenting, you agree to our 
 and to abide by our 
.


 


SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
Get the best of Raw Story, delivered daily










Email Address














 










 




Sponsored Links








New Stories
















































 








 








 


New Videos
























 








 


 


 
















 


 














SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
Get the best of Raw Story, delivered daily










Email Address


















 






 



































