Oregon Shooter Identified As 26-Year-Old Chris Harper Mercer — Here’s What We Know | TheBlaze.com 

Oregon Shooter Identified As 26-Year-Old Chris Harper Mercer — Here’s What We Know | TheBlaze.com






















































































































































































Hot Topics:


 















                            1.6M                        











                            429K                        











                            31.8K                        











                            15.8K                        










































 


Oregon Shooter Identified As 26-Year-Old Chris Harper Mercer — Here’s What We Know











							Oct. 1, 2015 11:13pm						


















4K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend










































 




Authorities identified 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer as the man who opened fire and killed at least nine individuals at an Oregon community college Thursday, according to multiple reports.


A photo posted to a MySpace page belonging to someone identified as Chris Harper Mercer showed a man with a firearm staring into the camera.




Chris Harper Mercer, 26, identified as Umpqua CC shooter according to 
. 


 


— KOIN News (@KOINNews) 




The MySpace page contained pro-Irish Republican Army pictures and video. The user shared only two connections on the social-media page. One connection was with Mahmoud Al Ehsani, a man who had several photos of the mujahideen on his profile page.


Image source: MySpace


On a dating profile appearing to belong to the same individual, the 26-year-old identified himself as a “conservative, republican.” The man belonged to a “Doesn’t Like Organized Religion” group on the dating site and stated twice that he was “not religious.” Witnesses say the shooter 
 before opening fire.


Image source: Screen grab


According to the dating profile, he had only been registered on the website for three months.


 a post kept on a torrent-uploading website that it said seemed to belong to Mercer. In the post, he seemed to identify with the WDBJ-TV shooter.


I have noticed that so many people like him are all alone and unknown, yet when they spill a little blood, the whole world knows who they are. A man who was known by no one, is now known by everyone. His face splashed across every screen, his name across the lips of every person on the planet, all in the course of one day. Seems the more people you kill, the more your’re in the limelight.


Mercer was killed Thursday after a brief gun battle with authorities.


—


Follow the author of this story on Twitter and Facebook:
 












 








4K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend














































Related:
 






Comments 
(
398
)




















 






















 


 


 


 


 






 


 


 


 


 




























 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 




 






 




 




 




























Sections


 


Hot Topics




 




More from TheBlaze


 


About


 








Thanks for the tip!


 Submitting your tip... please wait!






Have a Tip?


There was a problem submitting your tip.
Please try again later.


Give us a Scoop!


Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.






















All information © 2015 TheBlaze Inc






































































































You must be logged in to do that


































Sign In


Cancel










Displayed publicly on comments
Once chosen, this cannot be changed






































Email subscriptions:




FireWire from TheBlaze




News and offers from Glenn Beck brands and sponsors






I agree to the 








Sign Up


Cancel







