These Are the Online Messages Posted Day Before Oregon Shooting That Seemingly Warn of Future Massacre | TheBlaze.com 

These Are the Online Messages Posted Day Before Oregon Shooting That Seemingly Warn of Future Massacre | TheBlaze.com






















































































































































































Hot Topics:


 















                            1.6M                        











                            429K                        











                            31.8K                        











                            15.8K                        










































 


These Are the Online Messages Posted Day Before Oregon Shooting That Seemingly Warn of Future Massacre











							Oct. 1, 2015 5:04pm						


















5.1K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend










































 




Authorities were said to be investigating warning messages the suspected Oregon shooter may have posted on an Internet forum the day before carrying out the deadly act.


In an anonymous message, a user hinted to individuals on 4chan about a possible incident in the Northwest to take place Thursday.




“Some of you guys are alright. Don’t go to school tomorrow if you are in the northwest,” the anonymous message read. “happening thread will be posted tomorrow morning. so long space robots.”


Image source: Screen grab via 4chan


Another message said, “Will post again in am, 10 min countdown. Won’t say more to much to prepare.”


The individual was encouraged by a number of people on the thread to carry out the plans.


“I suggest you enter a classroom and tell people that you will take them as hostages. Make everyone get in one corner and then open fire,” a user posted. “Make sure that there is no way that someone can disarm you as it it possible. I suggest you carry a knife on your belt as last resort if someone is holding your gun.”


Image source: Screen grab via 4chan


Others provided more advice.


“You might want to target a girls school which is safer because there are no beta males throwing themselves for their rescue,” another anonymous person posted. “Do not use a shotgun. I would suggest a powerful assault rifle and a pistol or 2x pistols. Possibly the type of pistols who have 15+ ammo.”


One person posted a link to the FBI’s tip box.


After news of the shooting Thursday, the threat started to attract attention on the Internet forum.


“Holy f***,” one person wrote.


“THE MADMAN ACTUALLY DID IT,” another said.


“S****!!!! He did it!” echoed one more person.


A CNN reporter said on the network that authorities believed an online thread where the suspected shooter provided a warning was authentic, but had just yet to officially say. At an afternoon press conference, Sheriff John Hanlin declined to comment on the matter.


Authorities said the shooter was deceased. At least 13 were said to have been killed.


—


Follow the author of this story on Twitter and Facebook:
 












 








5.1K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend














































Related:
 






Comments 
(
212
)




















 






















 


 


 


 


 






 


 


 


 


 




























 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 




 






 




 




 




























Sections


 


Hot Topics




 




More from TheBlaze


 


About


 








Thanks for the tip!


 Submitting your tip... please wait!






Have a Tip?


There was a problem submitting your tip.
Please try again later.


Give us a Scoop!


Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.






















All information © 2015 TheBlaze Inc






































































































You must be logged in to do that


































Sign In


Cancel










Displayed publicly on comments
Once chosen, this cannot be changed






































Email subscriptions:




FireWire from TheBlaze




News and offers from Glenn Beck brands and sponsors






I agree to the 








Sign Up


Cancel







