Father of Student Wounded in Oregon Shooting Offers Chilling Details On How Christians Were Targeted | Video | TheBlaze.com 

Father of Student Wounded in Oregon Shooting Offers Chilling Details On How Christians Were Targeted | Video | TheBlaze.com






















































































































































































Hot Topics:


 















                            1.6M                        











                            429K                        











                            31.8K                        











                            15.8K                        










































 


Father of Student Wounded in Oregon Shooting Offers Chilling Details On How Christians Were Targeted











							Oct. 2, 2015 12:45am						


















6.7K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend










































 




The father of a student wounded in the Oregon community college shooting described in horrifying detail Thursday evening how the gunman specifically targeted Christians.


Anastasia Boylan, who was shot in the back, offered the disturbing details to her father and brother before undergoing spinal surgery.




“He shot the professor, point blank, one shot, killed him — took him right out of it,” Boylan’s father, Stacy, told CNN. “And then, this man, had enough time, I don’t know how much time elapsed before he was able to stand there and start asking people one by one what their religion was. ‘Are you a Christian?’ he would ask them. And if you’re a Christian, stand up.”


“And they would stand up and he said, ‘Good, because you’re a Christian, you’re going to see God in just about one second,’” he continued, relaying his daughter’s account. “And then he shot and killed them.”





				“He said, ‘Good, because you’re a Christian, you’re going to see God in just about one second.’”
			




 Share: 






The account offered by the father 
 which indicate the gunman specifically went after Christians.


“The shooter was lining people up and asking if they were christian,” tweeted Bodhi Looney, who said her grandmother was in the room as the shooting unfolded. “If they said no, or didn’t answer, they were shot in the legs.”


Another student, 18-year-old Kortney Moore, relayed a similar account, 
 that the shooter asked individuals to stand up and state their religion before he opened fire.


—


Follow the author of this story on Twitter and Facebook:


 






Other Must-Read Stories




 




 






 








6.7K


Shares








Share This


Tweet This
























Email this story to a friend














































Related:
,
,
 






Comments 
(
84
)




















 






















 


 


 


 


 






 


 


 


 


 




























 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 






 


 








 








 








 








 








 




 






 




 




 




























Sections


 


Hot Topics




 




More from TheBlaze


 


About


 








Thanks for the tip!


 Submitting your tip... please wait!






Have a Tip?


There was a problem submitting your tip.
Please try again later.


Give us a Scoop!


Please help us fight spam. Follow the instructions below to prove that you're a real person.






















All information © 2015 TheBlaze Inc






































































































You must be logged in to do that


































Sign In


Cancel










Displayed publicly on comments
Once chosen, this cannot be changed






































Email subscriptions:




FireWire from TheBlaze




News and offers from Glenn Beck brands and sponsors






I agree to the 








Sign Up


Cancel







