Virginia shooter Bryce Williams sued Tallahassee station for discrimination Virginia shooter Bryce Williams sued Tallahassee station for discrimination
More
Firefly
Hi 
Already a subscriber? 
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Manage your account settings.
Get the news
Already a subscriber?
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Already a subscriber, but don't have a login?

                            570
                        
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Facebook
Email
Virginia shooter Bryce Williams sued Tallahassee station for discrimination
A local television anchor-reporter, slated to lose his job with Tallahassee's NBC affiliate in two weeks, has filed a racial discrimination suit against the station --- alleging that news producers and other managers made offensive remarks about blacks and fired him for complaining about it.
Post to Facebook
Virginia shooter Bryce Williams sued Tallahassee station for discrimination  A local television anchor-reporter, slated to lose his job with Tallahassee's NBC affiliate in two weeks, has filed a racial discrimination suit against the station --- alleging that news producers and other managers made offensive remarks about blacks and fired him for complaining about it.   Check out this story on tallahassee.com: http://on.tdo.com/1JmnXYM

                    {#
                    

                    #}
                
Cancel
Send
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

                            1
                        
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the 
Subscribed, but don't have a login?
Virginia shooter Bryce Williams sued Tallahassee station for discrimination

        Democrat staff 
    
1:20 p.m. EDT August 26, 2015
Vester Flanagan posted pictures of himself on Twitter under his handle that used his on-air name Bryce Williams.
(Photo: Screengrab from Twitter)

            570
        
CONNECT

            1
        
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
The Tallahassee Democrat published this story on Flanagan's lawsuit in 2000:
A local television anchor-reporter, slated to lose his job with Tallahassee's NBC affiliate in two weeks, has filed a racial discrimination suit against the station --- alleging that news producers and other managers made offensive remarks about blacks and fired him for complaining about it.
Management of WTWC-TV, Channel 40, said the station was having a "reduction in staff" requiring the firing, but that the company was proud of its diversity record.
Vester Flanagan, who has reported for WTWC-TV since last March, said he and another black employee were referred to as "monkeys" and that a supervisor once told him that "blacks are lazy and do not take advantage of free money" for scholarships and economic opportunities. He said when he cited his own background of nearly seven years in television, going back to internships at San Francisco State University, the supervisor told him he was an "exception."
Flanagan, 26, said Thursday he was told on Feb. 9 his employment contract will not be renewed after March 15. Since filing suit late last month, he said, "their reaction has been more of arrogance and retaliation --- they told me, 'This is war,' and there could be no compromise."
General Manager Maria Moore said the station has not been served with the suit and could not comment on personnel issues or pending litigation. She said the decision not to renew Flanagan's contract was caused by corporate belt-tightening but declined to say how many staff cuts were being made at the station or how many blacks and whites worked at various levels in the company.
"I am very proud of the diverse staff we have at NBC News 40, and the environment of respect we have created," she said. "We have a strong story to tell at the proper time and to the proper authorities."
Moore declined to comment on specific allegations made by Flanagan but said "the decision was based on a reduction of staff. His position will not be replaced." Flanagan, who had been a weekend news anchor and night reporter three days each week, was recently reassigned as a full-time reporter on weekdays. He said his bosses refused to let him use station equipment to make "resume videotapes" to send to other stations, which he said is a common practice in TV news.
Flanagan declined to identify producers and other managers who allegedly made offensive comments. His attorney, Marie Mattox, said she and Flanagan did not want to further aggravate feelings in the office if it is possible to work out a settlement.
"It's gotten really hard for him now," said Mattox.
Flanagan said a white supervisor, working on a story about a black homicide suspect who had "gold and green teeth," referred to the suspect as "just another thug." The same supervisor also speculated that the man had "collard greens" in his teeth.
Flanagan said that after complaining to supervisors about insensitive comments, he filed a formal complaint with the Florida Commission on Human Relations last December. He said "I had people coming up to me and saying, 'Hey, I hear you're not going to be around the station long' " in January, before the station notified him that his contract would not be renewed.
Mattox asked Leon County Circuit Judge Nikki Clark to issue an injunction to block Flanagan's termination and to award unspecified financial damages, legal fees and court costs.

            570
        
CONNECT

            1
        
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
Read or Share this story: http://on.tdo.com/1JmnXYM

TOP VIDEOS


                    06:00
                

                    01:20
                

                    06:29
                

                    05:00
                

                    05:02
                

                    04:42
                

                    06:38
                

                    01:53
                

                    01:00
                

                    01:33
                

                    00:46
                

                    01:12
                

                    04:17
                

                    01:11
                

                    01:06
                

                    04:09
                

                    05:38
                

                    07:41
                

                    04:18
                

                    06:27
                

                    07:03
                

                    02:37
                

                    02:28
                

                    02:41
                

                    08:13
                

                    00:54
                

                    01:28
                

                    01:59
                

                    01:50
                

                    02:13
                

    
        More Stories
    


                    Oct. 1, 2015, 4:44 p.m.
                

                    Oct. 1, 2015, 2:16 p.m.
                

                    Oct. 1, 2015, 10:25 a.m.
                