
        		Oregon College Shooting: 5 Things to Know Now
          



        		Oregon College Shooting: 5 Things to Know Now
        




































Menu
Close


 


 


 




























 


 








All Topics




 
4


 
3


 
9


 
2


 
10


 
11


 
6


 
8


 
11


 
6


 
35


 
5


 
5


 
1


 
10


 
7


 
4


 
16


 
1


 
8


 
4


 
14


 
7


 
2


 
14


 
9


 
8


 
23




 


 


 


 


 
















 


 


















 






















 


 




Oregon College Shooting: 5 Things to Know Now


As we learn more about gunman Chris Harper Mercer and his victims, here are some of the big things to watch in this developing story.


 




by The Trace


·
 


·
October 2, 2015


 


 


 




A 26-year-old man went on a 
 at a community college in the southern Oregon town of Roseburg late Thursday morning, 
, according to the county sheriff. The attacker died after a firefight with the police. 


The shooting occurred at Umpqua Community College, which serves about 4,600 full- and part-time students over the course of an academic year. Yesterday was just the second day of classes for many of those enrolled, as the fall semester began earlier this week. Reports of gunfire began around 10:30 a.m. One survivor 
 hearing what sounded like a ruler slapping against a wall. Another heard screaming in the next room over. “And then everybody took off,” he told 
The New York Times
. “People were hopping over desks, knocking things over.”


Law enforcement officials 
the gunman as Chris Harper Mercer, and said he was carrying at least three weapons, including a long gun and handguns. It’s not yet clear whether he had any connection with the school, but officials said he lived in the Roseburg area.


Here are some of the big things to watch and take note of as this story unfolds:


One of next key questions: How, where, and when did he get the guns?


So far, there has been no indication that Mercer had a criminal record that barred him from owning or purchasing a firearm. There are a 
 that could have blocked him from gun ownership, such as an admission of drug use or an involuntary hospitalization for psychiatric treatment, but nor has evidence of such disqualifiers surfaced.


But even if he was prohibited from owning a gun, Mercer might have been able to buy a firearm in Oregon without passing a background check — depending on when the transaction occurred.


Until recently, Oregon did not require background checks on private sales, at gun shows, or at sales arranged over the Internet. That changed in August when a 
 instituting universal background checks went into effect. Oregon is now one of the 18 states to require checks for all gun sales.


As the bill traveled through the state legislature, local gun groups and retailers 
. Some law enforcement officers also sought to derail the bill, with several sheriffs calling it unenforceable and lamenting a lack of resources to sufficiently complete universal checks. In April, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin testified at the state house against the bill. “I can tell you that this law is not going to protect citizens of Oregon,” he said. “It will not do that.”


Here’s a video of Hanlin’s full remarks (skip to 1:44): 




The local sheriff is “active” in the Oath Keepers


Hanlin is also involved in the local chapter of the staunchly pro-gun Oath Keepers militia, according to the group’s county coordinator. Rob Price tells The Trace that while Hanlin is not an official member, he attends meetings and offers guidance on gun laws and Second Amendment issues. “I would say he’s active,” Price says.


The Oath Keepers are largely comprised of current and former military service members, law enforcement, and other first responders. Members “
declare that they will not obey unconstitutional orders,” the group’s website states, “such as orders to disarm the American people.”


In 2013, Hanlin wrote a letter to Vice President Joe Biden saying that he would not enforce legislation that expanded background checks to private sales. (The bill was defeated that year before passing this spring.) In the letter, Hanlin said, “Gun control is NOT the answer to preventing heinous crimes like school shootings.”


At least one student was carrying a gun on campus when the attack occurred, but he decided against intervening


, John Parker Jr., a student and concealed carry holder, described hearing about the shooting with a group of fellow veterans on campus. They quickly consulted about their military experience, then decided it was not safe to rush to the scene and draw their own guns.


“
Veterans are trained, be it Air Force, Navy, Marines, or Army. We’re trained to go into danger, not just run away from it. If there was something we were able to do, we were going to try to do it. Luckily we made the choice not to get involved. We were quite a distance away from the actual building where it was happening, which could have opened us up to being potential targets ourselves. Not knowing where SWAT was on the their response time, they wouldn’t know who we were, and if we had our guns ready to shoot they could think we were the bad guys.”
 


An FBI analysis of 160 active shooter situations between 2000 and 2013 showed that only one was stopped by a concealed-carry licensee holder (he was a  
). Four were stopped by armed guards, two by off-duty police officers, and 21 by 
.


Parker and his fellow veterans were allowed to have their guns on the 
Umpqua grounds
 because Oregon is one of the states where campus carry is legal under certain stipulations.


 overturned the Oregon University System’s longstanding ban of firearms on college campuses, allowing those with concealed carry permits to bring weapons on university grounds. The following year, the Oregon Senate considered a bill that would have again prohibited the carrying of guns onto school, college, or university grounds in the state. That legislation lost by a single vote. Jeff Kruse, the Republican state Senator who represents Roseburg, was 
 voting against the measure. 


The day after the vote, the Oregon State Board of Higher Education took up the issue, setting a policy that allows guns on campus, but bars them from college buildings and sporting venues. Umpqua Community College adheres to that policy, while 
 for those “expressly authorized by law or college regulations.”


One UCC student has now lived through his second school shooting


In 2006, a 15-year-old at Roseburg High School shot a fellow student four times in the back. The victim survived, but 
, the incident sparked local institutions — including Umpqua Community College — to prepare for active shooter scenarios.


Kenny Ungerman, a
 UCC student and Navy veteran, was attending Roseburg High School when the 2006 attack occurred. “So it’s just crazy to think that I would be on campus when another shooting happened,” he told Brian Williams 
.


“That is unbelievable and a tragic story of modern day America,” said Williams, who pointed out that the veteran’s four years in the armed services were without similar incident.


For this corner of Oregon, it’s at least the third school shooting in the past two decades. In 1998, 15-year-old Kip Kinkel killed two students and wounded 24 others at 
 in Springfield, Oregon, about an hour north of Roseburg. The day before, he had been suspended from school for having a gun in his locker, and had shot and killed his parents — one of whom was a teacher at Thurston High — in their home. In 1999, Kinkel was 
 to 111 years in prison, without the possibility of parole.


Obama contrasts tally of gun violence victims with domestic terror


In his remarks at the White House, the president challenged news organizations to “
tally up the number of Americans who’ve been killed through terrorist attacks over the last decade and the number of Americans who’ve been killed by gun violence, and post those side-by-side.” Here’s what one version of such a chart looks like, 
, which includes 9/11:


And here’s a different visualization, 
, which starts its count in 2002.


Had either included suicides by firearm — the most common form of gun death, and one that tougher restrictions on gun access has been shown to reduce — the disparities would have been even more stark.


“We spend over a trillion dollars, and pass countless laws, and devote entire agencies to preventing terrorist attacks on our soil, and rightfully so,” Obama continued. “And yet, we have a Congress that explicitly blocks us from even collecting data on how we could potentially reduce gun deaths. How can that be?”


Minutes before Obama gave his statement — the 15th he has delivered on mass shootings during his presidency — 
 near the city hall of Inglis, Florida. In all, across the country, there were at least 52 incidents of gun violence yesterday, 
.


[Photo: Michael Sullivan/The News-Review via AP]


 


















 


 


Posted 
October 2, 2015


In this article 








 






 






 






 






 






 






 


 


 


 








Stay Informed


Subscribe to receive The Trace’s daily roundup of important gun news and analysis.


 


Email address






 


 






Thanks for your subscription!


Your signup request was successful. Please consider sharing the Daily Bulletin with your friends and followers.














 




 


 




 


 










Related Articles




 






























Raymond Fryberg is on trial for hiding his abusive past when buying the gun his son later used to kill four classmates at Marysville Pilchuck High School. The lack of a system for reporting tribal court records to NICS was another culprit.


by 
































America accounted for 62 percent of the world's mass public shootings at schools and workplaces between 1966–2012.


by 
































Visualizing the everyday cost of America’s gun violence epidemic.


by Jennifer Mascia and Emily Fuhrman








 


 




 












Gun News and Views From Elsewhere


 












from 


Recommended by 
Nora Biette-Tmmons


2 hours ago












from 


Recommended by 
Jennifer Mascia


2 hours ago












from 


Recommended by 
Elizabeth Van Brocklin


22 hours ago






 


 


 


 


 




 


 






















 


 








About the Trace
 
The Trace is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to expanding coverage of guns in the United States. We believe that our country’s epidemic rates of firearm-related violence are coupled with a second problem: a shortage of information about the issue at large. 




















 


 


 


 


















 























