Suspect in on-air murder of journalists kills himself Suspect in on-air murder of journalists kills himself
Weather
Icon
Humidity
Precip.
Winds
Open settings
Settings
Enter City, State or Zip
Cancel
Set
Close settings
More
User
 You are logged in as 
Get the news

                            30153
                        
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Facebook
Email
Suspect in on-air murder of journalists kills himself
Two members of a local TV station's news team were fatally shot Wednesday during a live TV broadcast near Roanoke, Va,
Post to Facebook
Suspect in on-air murder of journalists kills himself  Two members of a local TV station's news team were fatally shot Wednesday during a live TV broadcast near Roanoke, Va,   Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1JlVpym

                    {#
                    

                    #}
                
Cancel
Send
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

                            941
                        
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the 
Suspect in on-air murder of journalists kills himself
, USA TODAY 
7:45 p.m. EDT August 26, 2015

    Police say the suspect in the shooting of a reporter and photographer that happened on live tv is a former reporter at the station, WDBJ. Vester Lee Flanagan, a.k.a. Bryce Williams, allegedly shot himself after fleeing the scene.
    
Shots rang out seconds after this live interview by a WDBJ crew n Franklin County, Va.
(Photo: WDBJ)

            30153
        
CONNECT

            941
        
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
A quiet morning TV broadcast in a small Virginia town erupted in violence and tragedy Wednesday when a disgruntled former employee fatally shot two young journalists on live TV, authorities said.
The shooting set off an intense manhunt that ended hours later when the suspect shot himself in a rented car as police closed in, Franklin County Sheriff Bill Overton said. The suspect, Vester Flanagan, was rushed to a hospital in critical condition but later died, Overton said.
 general manager Jeffrey Marks said Flanagan, 41, was a former employee who displayed "anger issues" before being fired in 2013.
Flanagan, who used the on-air name Bryce Williams while working for WDBJ, posted video on his Facebook page showing the shooting from the perspective of the shooter. The gun is visible and a victim, Alison Parker, is seen being shot.
The shooting took place at about 6:45 a.m. ET at Smith Mountain Lake, about 35 miles from Roanoke. Killed were Parker, 24, a WDBJ7 reporter, and cameraman Adam Ward, 27. Vicki Gardner, executive director of a local Chamber of Commerce, underwent emergency surgery at Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospital and was stable condition, the hospital said.
The station's live broadcast showed Parker interviewing Gardner at the Bridgewater Plaza shopping center when, just off camera, shots rang out and Parker was heard screaming. The recording appears to include a  glimpse of the gunman dressed in black.
Overton said police had not determined a firm motive for the attack. He said social media and other information indicated Flanagan was "disturbed in some way" and that things in his life were "spiraling out of control."
Overton said he had been watching the broadcast when the shooting took place.
"It stopped me in my tracks," Overton said. "Like many viewers, I was watching and couldn't figure out right away what happened."
Sherry Altice, a school bus driver from nearby Boones Mill, was likewise unsure of what was unfolding on her TV.
“I thought, ‘Did I just just see what I think I saw?'” she said.
After dropping off students and learning of immediate lockdowns, Altice learned the journalists were dead.
“I couldn’t believe it,” she said. “They were just on the news this morning.”
Jim Wood was on the treadmill at his Glade Hill home when the gunshots rang out and his TV went blank momentarily. His gut reaction was "something happened to those people.”
“The next question is, what do we do about gun control laws?” Wood said. “And the answer is absolutely nothing, and that’s the real pisser.”
Marks said his staff was stunned, but journalism continued amid hugs and tears.
"This kind of loss will resonate in these halls for a long, long time as we remember in their short lives what dedicated journalism they produced and what outstanding journalists they were," Marks said. "They were just out doing their job today."
We love you, Alison and Adam. 
— WDBJ7 (@WDBJ7) 
More than four hours after the shooting, Flanagan began tweeting about the incident, using a Bryce Williams Twitter handle. Flanagan tweeted that Parker made racist comments and that he filed an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission report. He also tweeted that Ward went to human resources about him "after working with me one time!!!"
A short time later, Flanagan posted two short videos of the shooting.
ABC News said it received a 23-page fax from someone claiming to be Bryce Williams two hours after the shooting. ABC said the document claimed the shooting was prompted by the June shooting rampage by a white supremacist at a South Carolina church that left nine people dead. The network said it had turned the document over to authorities.
Marks said it appeared that Ward was shot first and that Parker was shot trying to flee. He said Ward was engaged to producer Melissa Ott, who was working at the station at the time of the shooting and saw the tragedy unfold.
Virginia State Police said the suspect's car was spotted hours later on Interstate 66 in Fauquier County, Va., but "sped away" from police. Flanagan crashed moments later and was found with a bullet wound. He was hospitalized with life-threatening injuries; Overton said Flanagan died at about 1:30 p.m.
The victims were from the Roanoke area, the station said. Adam graduated from Salem High School and Virginia Tech. Parker grew up in Martinsville and attended Patrick Henry Community College and James Madison University.
Chris Hurst, an anchor for the station, said he was Parker's boyfriend.
"She was the most radiant woman I ever met. And for some reason she loved me back. She loved her family, her parents and her brother," Hurst tweeted. And later: "I am comforted by everyone at 
. We are a family. She worked with Adam every day. They were a team. I am heartbroken for his fiancee."
We were together almost nine months. It was the best nine months of our lives. We wanted to get married.We just celebrated her 24th birthday
— Chris Hurst (@chrishurstwdbj) 
Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe said on Twitter that he was "heartbroken over senseless murders today in Smith Mountain Lake."
Todd Schurz, president and CEO of Schurz Communications, which owns WDBJ, said he was "heartbroken" by the tragedy.
"At the time of their murders, they were involved in the most important aspect of journalism — telling the stories important to their local communities, Schurz said. "Our focus now is to comfort their families and loved ones and to assist law enforcement in their investigation."
Contributing: Tyler Pager, Emily Brown, Doug Stanglin, USA TODAY; Brad Zinn, The (Staunton, Va.) News Leader
Pamela Cook, of Roanoke, Va., delivers flowers to WDBJ's Digital Broadcast Center after hearing the news of the shooting involving two of the news team members in Roanoke, Va. 
 Heather Rousseau, The Roanoke Times via AP
A makeshift memorial is assembled in front of WDBJ television station in Roanoke, Va..  A WDBJ- TV reporter and cameraman were shot to death during a live television interview by a gunman who recorded himself carrying out the killings and posted the video on social media after fleeing the scene.  
 Steve Helber, AP
Reporters gather around a memorial of balloons and flowers outside of  WDBJ-7's Digital Broadcast Center in Roanoke, Va. 
 Heather Rousseau,  The Roanoke Times via AP
Reporter Alison Parker, left, and cameraman Adam Ward were fatally shot during an on-air interview in Moneta, Va. Authorities identified the gunman as Vester Lee Flanagan II, who appeared on WDBJ-TV as Bryce Williams. Flanagan was fired from the station in 2013.  
 WDBJ-TV via AP
In this frame grab from video made by the camera of WDBJ-TV cameraman Adam Ward, Vester Flanagan stands over Ward with a gun after fatally shooting him and reporter Alison Parker during a live on-air interview in Moneta, Va. 
 WDBJ via AP
Vester Lee Flanagan II was a former employee at WDBJ who appeared on air as Bryce Williams.  
 WDBJ via AP
Franklin County, Va., Sheriff Bill Overton speaks to the press on in Moneta, Va. 
 Jay Paul, Getty Images
The social media accounts of Vester Flanagan, whose TV name was Bryce Williams, appear to have posted video of the shooting from the perspective of the shooter. 
 via Twitter
Photos made available by WDBJ show reporter Alison Parker and cameraman Adam Ward. Parker and Ward were fatally shot during an on-air interview on Aug. 26, 2015, in Moneta, Va. 
 AP
Authorities block the highway at Bridgewater Plaza in Moneta, Va., after two journalists were fatally shot while broadcasting live from the plaza earlier in the day. 
 Stephanie Klein-Davis, The Roanoke Times via AP
A view of Smith Mountain Lake is seen behind Bridgewater Plaza in Moneta, Va. 
 Stephanie Klein-Davis, The Roanoke Times via AP
This screen shot shows the Twitter page of Bryce Williams, whose real name is Vester Lee Flanagan II, shortly after he fatally shot WDBJ cameraman Adam Ward and reporter Alison Parker during a live broadcast in Moneta, Va., Aug. 26, 2015. The station said Flanagan was also an employee at WDBJ and appeared on air as Bryce Williams. 
 AP
Flowers from viewer Rodney Booth of Roanoke, Va., outside WDBJ's Digital Broadcast Center in Roanoke. 
 Erica Yoon, AP
The Twitter page of Vester Flanagan. 
 via Twitter
The Twitter feed of Vester Flanagan. 
 via Twitter
The Facebook page of Vester Flanagan. 
 via Facebook
The Twitter feed of Vester Flanagan. 
 via Twitter
The Twitter page for Vester Flanagan, whose TV name was Bryce Williams. 
 via Facebook
A sheriff's deputy blocks an off-ramp from Interstate 66 near Markham, Va., on Aug. 26, 2015. 
 Robert MacPherson, AFP/Getty Images
Alison Parker, Vicki Gardner and Adam Ward are shown in this photo posted on  Bryce Williams' Facebook page, belonging to Vester  Flanagan. 
 Facebook
Like this topic? 
You may also like these photo galleries:
Replay
Autoplay
Show Thumbnails
Show Captions

            30153
        
CONNECT

            941
        
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1JlVpym

TOP VIDEOS


                    01:35
                

                    00:53
                

                    01:11
                

                    01:23
                

                    00:54
                

                    00:56
                

                    01:06
                

                    01:06
                

                    01:03
                

                    01:07
                

                    04:55
                

                    00:31
                

                    01:08
                

                    00:39
                

                    00:51
                

                    01:05
                

                    03:40
                

                    01:00
                

                    01:10
                

                    00:39
                

                    01:43
                

                    01:08
                

                    01:07
                

                    01:07
                

                    00:48
                

                    00:49
                

                    00:36
                

                    00:42
                

                    01:08
                

                    00:46
                

                    01:04
                

                    01:03
                

                    05:09
                

                    01:03
                

                    02:59
                

                    01:06
                

                    02:14
                