 Oregon shooter said to have singled out Christians for killing in ‘horrific act of cowardice’ - The Washington Post  
 Oregon shooter said to have singled out Christians for killing in ‘horrific act of cowardice’ - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google Plus
Share via Email
More Options
 
Share on Whatsapp
Share on Pinterest
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Pinterest
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Book mark article
 
Read later list
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saved to Reading List
 
 Saved
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Too busy to read this now?
 
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
 
 
 
 
 
Sign in to your account to save this article.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oregon shooter said to have singled out Christians for killing in ‘horrific act of cowardice’
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
Print Article
Comments
2731
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
, 
 and 
Joseph Hoyt
 
October 2 at 9:25 AM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 of 24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Screen
 
Autoplay
 
 
Close
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skip Ad
 
 
 
×
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nine victims and gunman dead in mass shooting at Ore. community college
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Photos
 
 
 
Multiple casualties have been reported at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., authorities said.
 
 
 
 
Caption
 
 
 
Multiple casualties have been reported at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore., authorities said.
 
 
 
 
Kristin Sterner, a freshman at Umpqua Community College, mourns during a vigil in Roseburg, Ore., for the victims of a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College.
 
Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty Images
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wait 1 second to continue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROSEBURG, Ore. — The fourth day of the fall term was underway when bullets tore into the classrooms of Umpqua Community College, adding that tranquil timber town to the grim roster of places whose histories are now permanently cast in terms of “before” and “after.”
 
Officials said that nine victims were killed, plus the gunman. And at least 10 others were admitted for treatment at the Mercy Medical Center, said the chief medical officer, Jason Gray, on Friday. Three patients were transferred to larger facilities for more intensive care, he added.
 
“The days and weeks ahead will be the most challenging” as the small community copes with the aftermath, Gray said.
 
The names of those killed and wounded were not yet released nor would Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin name the shooter publicly, more out of rage than discretion. “I will not name the shooter,” he said at a news conference Thursday night. “I will not give him credit for this horrific act of cowardice. Media will get the name confirmed in time … but you will never hear us use it.”
 
 
 
 
Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin says he won't name the man who shot and killed nine people on a community college campus on Oct. 1, so to "not give him the credit he probably sought." The gunman, identified by an anonymous official as Chris Harper Mercer, was also killed. (Associated Press)
 
 
 
The transition from the anonymity of “before” to the notoriety of “after” took just about 10 terrifying minutes, during which the alleged shooter — identified by a U.S. law enforcement official as Chris Harper Mercer — strode through a school building armed with three pistols and a semiautomatic rifle. Clad in a dark shirt and jeans, driven by a motive that is still unknown, he methodically spewed bullets into classrooms full of students, who hid behind desks and desperately tried to block doors that didn’t lock.
 
[
]
 
In one classroom, he appeared to single out Christian students for killing, according to witness Anastasia Boylan.
 
“He said, ‘Good, because you’re a Christian, you’re going to see God in just about one second,'” Boylan’s father, Stacy, 
, relaying his daughter’s account while she underwent surgery to treat a gunshot to her spine.
 
“And then he shot and killed them.”
 
Another account came from Autumn Vicari, who described to
what her brother J.J. witnessed in the room where the shootings occurred. According to NBC: “Vicari said at one point the shooter told people to stand up before asking whether they were Christian or not. Vicari’s brother told her that anyone who responded ‘yes’ was shot in the head. If they said ‘other’ or didn’t answer, they were shot elsewhere in the body, usually the leg.”
 
The violence stopped only after authorities exchanged gunfire with Mercer. At 10:47 a.m. local time Thursday, the end was announced over the police scanner: The suspect was down.
 
The scraps of information about Mercer uncovered so far did not fit together easily and much remained unconfirmed, including reports that he had forecast some act of violence in Oregon in a dark corner of the Internet known as 4chan, a report being investigated by federal authorities, 
  But a murky portrait was emerging of a quiet and withdrawn young man who struggled to connect with other people, instead seeking attention online, and who harbored anger against organized religion.
 
Thursday’s rampage was the latest in a series of mass shootings that have produced national revulsion, even as they have left Republicans and Democrats divided over whether such violence should lead to stricter gun laws. The campus shootings came three months after nine people were gunned down at a historic African American church in Charleston, S.C.
 
One group that tracks gun violence, the Mass Shooting Tracker, said it was 
 death or injury from a shooting involving four or more people in the United States this year — a rate of more than one victim a day.
 
School shootings have figured prominently in this series of tragedies, including the 1999 massacre at Columbine High School in Colorado, the 2007 Virginia Tech shootings and the deaths of 20 children in 2012 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.
 
[
]
 
From Washington, a visibly frustrated 
 and quickly pivoted to 
, something he has done throughout his presidency to no avail.
 
“Each time we see one of these mass shootings, our thoughts and prayers are not enough,” he said. “It’s not enough. It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel. It does nothing to prevent this carnage from being inflicted someplace else in America.”
 
But in Douglas County, a rural region where hunting is popular and crime rates are low, support for gun rights is strong.
 
“I carry to protect myself — the exact same reason this happened,” Casey Runyan, a disabled Marine Corps veteran who now lives in the area, told the 
. He told the AP he brings a Glock 29 pistol wherever he goes.
 
Hanlin, the Douglas County sheriff, sent a letter to Vice President Biden in 2013, after the shootings in Newtown renewed the debate about gun control. Hanlin 
 that proposed restrictions would be “irresponsible and an indisputable insult to the American people,” and he and his deputies would refuse to enforce them.
 
For Thursday night, at least, attention was mainly on the victims. In a ritual that has repeated itself so many times over the past few years, people gathered at the Douglas County Fairgrounds where evacuees from the school had been taken to meet their families. With darkness falling, the site of reunions became a base for an anxious vigil. A chaplain led a group prayer. Families missing a member clung to one another. Friends stood by and struggled to stave off dread.
 
“It’s agonizing to be here and just wait,” said Sarah Cobb, 17, a UCC student who had survived the shooting by ducking under her desk but was still waiting to hear about some of her classmates and friends.
 
“The longer people sit in there, the more they know it is going to be bad,” she said, referring to a gathering of investigators and FBI agents in a small building at the fairgrounds. “But you’re just praying and hoping that it’s not.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
All day Thursday, local and federal law enforcement officials swarmed Umpqua’s small campus, a modest collection of about a dozen buildings largely unprotected by gates or walls.
 
Umpqua, one of 17 community colleges in Oregon, has about 2,000 students and about 200 full- and part-time faculty members. Federal data suggests Umpqua is a quiet campus; the only crimes reported there in recent years have been an occasional burglary and, in 2013, an aggravated assault.
 
After a 2006 incident in which one student was shot by another at Roseburg High School, local institutions — including UCC — hired security guards, according to the 
. Those security guards are unarmed, interim college President Rita Calvin told the newspaper. The campus is a gun-free zone.
 
Investigators also fanned out across two states where Mercer lived, questioning family members and former neighbors, sifting through social media postings and obscure Internet forums in search of some clues about what happened, and why.
 
Public records showed no previous brushes with law enforcement by Mercer. Social media accounts attributed to him, including a 
and an 
 offer hints of his interests — the Irish Republican Army, punk rock music, an antipathy toward religion — but little real insight.
 
According to reports, authorities are investigating a 
 on the messageboard 4chan posted Wednesday evening. The site is 
 for staging online hoaxes, in addition to cat memes, hackings and Internet attacks. But the conversation, if authentic, appears to show a gunman’s plans for a shooting. “Don’t go to school tomorrow if you are in the northwest,” the post reads.
 
Mercer grew up in California, where he attended the Switzer Learning Center for students with disabilities. Rick Rada, a former classmate, recalled Mercer as quiet, cheerful and non-violent.
 
“To me Chris was just an ordinary guy, really. He was one of the silent types like me,” Rada told The Washington Post. “… But we got along with our teachers. He opened up with the teachers, talked to them, had fun.”
 
Former neighbors in Torrance, Calif., a beachside city just south of Los Angeles, told the 
 that Mercer liked to practice target shooting and tended to act “anxious or nervous,” as Rosario Espinoza put it. He and his mother, Laurel Harper, mostly kept to themselves, except for occasional disputes over bugs or loud noises. Espinoza’s mother, Rosario Lucumi, recalled thinking it “strange” that Harper referred to her son as “baby.”
 
 
Mercer moved to Oregon with his mother a year or two ago, according to public records. It’s not clear if and how he may have been affiliated with Umpqua Community College, though a student 
 that she took a theater class with Mercer, and a “Chris Harper-Mercer” is listed as a production assistant on the 
 of a UCC fall show.
 
 
 
 
The father of a man who a U.S. law enforcement official identified as the Oregon community college gunman says he's shocked at the deaths of 10 people including his son. Ian Mercer spoke to reporters in Tarzana, Calif., the night of Oct. 1, and asked for privacy. (Associated Press)
 
 
 
His father, Ian Mercer, still lives in Los Angeles. Harper stepped outside his home there briefly on Thursday night to say that he’d spent the day speaking with law enforcement and couldn’t answer questions about his son or the shooting.
 
“Shocked is all I can say,” he told reporters. “It’s been a devastating day.”
 
Gloria Buhring, a neighbor at the Winchester, Ore., apartment complex where Mercer appeared to have lived, said police officers swarmed the area Thursday, blocking much of the complex off with police tape.
 
Buhring didn’t know Mercer. But on Wednesday, she returned home to find a previously empty dumpster “overflowing with stuff that looked like it had been moved from an apartment,” she told The Washington Post. “It looked like somebody had gotten rid of a lot of stuff and left.”
 
Another Winchester neighbor, Bronte Hart, told 
 that Mercer would “sit by himself in the dark in the balcony with this little light.”
 
Hart said a woman she believed to be Mercer’s mother lived with him and was “crying her eyes out” Thursday.
 
Steven Fisher, who also lives nearby, described Mercer as “skittish.”
 
“His demeanor, the way he moved, always looking around,” Fisher told 
. “I got a bad vibe from him.”
 
Those words — “silent,” “skittish,” “strange” — come up a lot in answers to questions about Mercer. But not “violent.” No one interviewed who knew him said they suspected that he might be the type of person to fire into a classroom full of college students.
 
The attack started just after 10:30 a.m. local time, when students in Snyder Hall — a modest building in the southeast part of campus where science and English classes are held — heard a sudden popping noise.
 
Some were bewildered by the noises. But Cobb, a 17-year-old who heard the sound from her Writing 121 class in Snyder, recognized them immediately.
 
Gunshots.
 
“I grew up hunting, so by then I knew what it was,” she told The Washington Post. Cobb screamed to her teacher that they all needed to get out, and the instructor opened the door onto chaos: students running, a teacher crying, a man screaming for someone to call 911. Cobb left her phone, her backpack and all of her belongings in the classroom and then ran out of the building, tripping her way down the stairs.
 
“There was so much screaming you knew it was serious,” she said. “I was terrified. I was sprinting. You could hear the gunshots echoing in the hall.”
 
Cobb had just moved to Roseburg from Eugene a few months earlier, and she didn’t know anyone in her class. 
 
“I think everyone in my room escaped,” she said. “But you know right away that wasn’t going to be the same next door.”
 
One of Cobb’s classmates, 19-year-old Hannah Miles, told the 
 that she followed her instructor and several other classmates to the school bookstore, where an employee called 911.
 
The report came in at 10:38 a.m: “Active shooter at UCC,” the dispatcher said.
 
While police, paramedics and first responders went into action, Mercer continued his rampage on campus.
 
Anastasia Boylan, the witness being treated for a spinal injury, told her family that the gunman entered her classroom firing, according to 
.
 
“I’ve been waiting to do this for years,” he told the professor. Then he shot the man point blank.
 
According to Boylan’s account, as retold by her family, everyone in the classroom dropped to the ground. Mercer reloaded his weapon, then asked students who were Christian to stand up.
 
They did so. That’s when he told them “you’re going to see God,” and fired, choosing to shoot others in the legs.
 
Boylan, 18, survived by pretending to be dead. She’d been hit in the back and lay on the floor bleeding, according to 
. When Mercer said, “Hey you, blonde woman,” she did nothing.
 
Eventually, Boylan was rescued and airlifted to a Eugene hospital, where she is being treated for her injuries, her grandmother told the 
.
 
In a room nearby, Cassandra Welding heard the percussive sounds of gunshots with horror. A classmate opened the door to look at what was happening, Welding told the 
, and was shot.
 
“We were screaming, ‘Close the door! Close the door!'” Welding said.
 
Someone dragged the injured woman back into the room and locked the door. Taking turns, classmates performed CPR on the woman, who had been shot in the torso. Her broken glasses lay on the floor near her, Welding told the 
. Blood was splattered on the walls.
 
The students crawled toward the back of the room, away from the door.
 
“I was so terrified for my life and I was shaking,” Welding said. While another classmate called 911, the 20-year-old phoned her mother. She wasn’t the only one.
 
“I just heard other people in tears, crying, calling their loved ones and telling them, ‘I love you.'” she told the 
. “It was such a heart-wrenching thing.”
 
Minutes after the initial 911 call, police arrived on campus.
 
Their quick, deadly confrontation with gunman was reported over the police scanner.
 
“We exchanged shots with him, he’s in a classroom on the east side of Snyder Hall,” an officer hurriedly informed the dispatcher.
 
Then, minutes later, “The suspect is down. We’ve got multiple gun shot wounds. We’re going to need multiple ambulances on scene,” an officer urged. “… A
s many ambulances as possible. W
e have upwards of 20 victims.”
 
Later in the day, that figure was revised down: 10 dead, including the gunman, and seven more wounded.
 
Hanlin, the Douglas County sheriff, said at a Thursday night press conference that the victims likely won’t be identified for another 24 to 48 hours. Officials want to ensure that all families have been notified before releasing the names of those killed.
 
Officials at Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg said the hospital had received 10 patients from the shooting.
 
PeaceHealth Sacred Heart Medical Center at RiverBend, a hospital about 70 miles north of the school, said it had three female patients, one in critical condition and the other two in serious condition.
 
The UCC campus will remain closed Friday, as officials continue to catalog and investigate the aftermath. Around Oregon, flags are being flown at half-staff.
 
“Today was the saddest day in the history of the college,” Cavin said at a news conference Thursday.
 
That evening, with their friends in the hospital, their campus a crime scene and the dead still nine nameless unknowns, hundreds of people gathered at a park in downtown Roseburg. Cheeks wet, candles clutched in their hands, mourners listened as professors, public officials and the college president urged them to think of the victims, and not the man who killed them.
 
When the speeches were over, a chant went up: “We are UCC.”
 
“After” was underway.
 
Eli Saslow and Joseph Hoyt reported from Oregon. Michael Miller, Yanan Wang, Mark Berman and Jerry Markon contributed reporting from Washington. 
 
 
 
 
Eli Saslow is a reporter at the Washington Post, where he covered the 2008 presidential campaign and has chronicled the president’s life inside the White House. He won the 2014 Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting for his year-long series about food stamps in America.
Sarah Kaplan is a reporter for Morning Mix.
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2731
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2731
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
 | 
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
✕
 
Thank you for signing up
 
You'll receive e-mail when new stories are published in this series.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Joyful, Illiterate Kindergartners of Finland
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 40 Lucky Children, an Escape From Congo's Diamond Mines
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That asteroid might have needed help wiping out the dinosaurs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amazon Will Stop Selling Google and Apple Streaming Devices at the End of the Month
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marco Rubio: Putin is a 'gangster' and a 'thug' — and here's how I'd take him on
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solar Panels Are About To Get Way, Way Better
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I'm a librarian who banned a book. Here's why.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sieren's China: No more fiddling, more slog
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 things Planned Parenthood's president admitted under oath
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ted Cruz is toast: It's not just that he won't be president -- his days in the Senate are numbered, too
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DARPA is testing implanting chips in soldiers' brains
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to Protect Yourself From Peeple, the ‘Yelp for People' App
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Is it safe to cook with hot tap water?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Election 2016 Is 'Feeling The Bern'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five Things We Learned from the Ravens 23-20 win over the Pittsburgh Steelers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paige: Memories of Mom keep me company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gunman in Oregon college shooting identified
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shout Your Abortion founder Amelia Bonow criticises LA Times for sensationalist death threat article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Next Story
Michael E. Miller
 · 
2 hours ago
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
 and 
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 