Pregnant mother, grandmother killed — infant, two others wounded in South Side shooting | Chicago Sun-Times Pregnant mother, grandmother killed — infant, two others wounded in South Side shooting | Chicago Sun-Times
















































menu






 Sun-Times












 |








































































































































































































































































































































































1
/
5








































































Pregnant mother, grandmother killed — infant, two others wounded in South Side shooting




 
Written By STEFANO ESPOSITO, ALEXANDRA KUKULKA AND SAM CHARLES Posted: 09/28/2015, 07:52pm




Sign-up for Chicago Sun-Times newsletters.
 


















Patricia Chew, who was shot and killed Monday night. Photo courtesy of ABC 7 Chicago. 








Persha Chew was carrying some groceries into her Back of the Yards home Monday evening, when she heard seven gunshots.


Chew raced outside to find the unthinkable: Her 11-month-old nephew and her pregnant sister on the ground and bloody.


The baby survived and was in stable condition, but his mother and grandmother were both killed, police said. Two other men who were with the women, who were all returning from a family outing, were also wounded.


Chew, 26, scooped up her screaming, wounded nephew and comforted him, just as police arrived at the scene in the 5300 block of South

Aberdeen.


“It’s OK. It’s OK. I’m here,” Chew kept repeating to her nephew.


As she spoke to reporters at Stroger Hospital, her white T-shirt smeared with her nephew’s blood, Chew praised police for their quick thinking. They raced the child from the scene to get to a hospital.


“That was pretty good,” Chew said.


The baby was shot in the side. His condition had stabilized, according to police.


Chew said her sister was two months pregnant and the mother of  Chew’s nephew. She didn’t know her sister’s condition Monday

night when she spoke to reporters and was anxiously awaiting word — worried about the unborn baby.


Less than an hour later, police announced the mother and grandmother had been killed.


“You have an innocent family coming home from a family outing,” Deputy Chief Eugene Roy told reporters at the scene. ”Somebody opens fire on two women, a child and two adults, killing the mother of the 11-month-old and the grandmother of the 11-month-old.


“In a second, two generations of that child’s family were wiped out,” Roy said.


The shooting happened about 7:30 p.m. at 53rd and Aberdeen.  The group was getting out of their car and returning to their home when unknown gunmen opened fire from another vehicle, Roy said.


Outside Stroger Hospital, relatives identified the two women as Patricia Chew, the mother of 11-month-old Princeton, and Lolita Wells, the boy’s grandmother.




According to relatives, Chew was 24 and her mother was 47.


Chew said she has no idea who would have wanted to shoot at her family and said she never saw a shooter.


One of the men, 25, was shot in the abdomen, while the other, 24, was shot in both legs, police said. They were both taken to Mount Sinai Hospital, where their conditions were stabilized.






























 






 






NFL












 






National & World News












 






National & World News












 


 








Trending Now
 
 






 








 
Browse More 'News'


























Modal






















































caption








image
 
1
/













































































