 The more eulogies Obama gives, the harder it is to be optimistic - The Washington Post  
 The more eulogies Obama gives, the harder it is to be optimistic - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google Plus
Share via Email
More Options
 
Share on Whatsapp
Share on Pinterest
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Pinterest
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
Book mark article
 
Read later list
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Saved to Reading List
 
 Saved
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Too busy to read this now?
 
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
 
 
 
 
 
Sign in to your account to save this article.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The more eulogies Obama gives, the harder it is to be optimistic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
Print Article
Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
President Obama speaks during a memorial service for the victims and relatives of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings on Dec. 16, 2012, in Newtown, Conn. (MANDEL NGAN/AFP/GETTY IMAGES)
 
 
 
By 
 
June 25
 
 
 
 
 
 
Much has been made about the presidency being what Teddy Roosevelt called a “bully pulpit” — bully, at the time, meaning first rate.
 
On Friday, President Obama will use his presidency as a pulpit in a more conventional and solemn sense, delivering a eulogy for at least the 15th time while in office, this time for South Carolina state Sen. Clementa Pinckney, who was killed in a mass shooting at his Charleston church on June 17. 
 
Yet unlike a conventional pastor, Obama has used these different occasions — including memorial services for Nelson Mandela, Upper Big Branch coal miners, Sandy Hook Elementary School students and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy — to preach the American gospel, the secular catechism of beliefs that he thinks tie the nation together. 
 
As he said after the Boston Marathon bombings in April 2013, these virtues and principles make up “our common creed.” 
 
And yet, after each one of the mass attacks that have marred his presidency, it becomes harder and harder for Obama to invoke the grand optimism that progress is being made or, to cite the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., that “the arc of the moral universe is long but it bends toward justice.” 
 
 
 
President Obama delivered the eulogy at the funeral of South Carolina state Sen. Clementa Pinckney, the pastor who was fatally shot in his Emanuel AME Church along with eight others. (WhiteHouse.gov)
 
 
 
Instead, the president has gone from just marking the country’s strengths to also highlighting its failure, and his own failure, to do something to control gun violence. 
 
He celebrated Americans’ public spiritedness and rights to peaceful assembly after the Tucson mall shooting that wounded then-Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.), saying in January 2011 that the people killed and wounded had been engaged in a “quintessentially American scene” and showed “that heroism is found not only on the fields of battle.” But after the December 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook in Newtown, Conn. — the fourth time he comforted a grieving community “torn apart by a mass shooting” — Obama said that “these tragedies must end” and “we’re not doing enough.” 
 
For the most part, however, the president has used eulogies to preach American values. And he has done so in settings where, unlike in the East Room or the Oval Office, his intonation can soar and play off an attentive audience. Often he has chosen public figures with whom he has had little in common or only passing acquaintance, yet they have offered him a chance to sing from a distinctly American book of psalms. 
 
At the funeral of Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.), a onetime member of the Ku Klux Klan, Obama said that the lawmaker’s life “bent toward justice” and that he “possessed that quintessential American quality, and that is a capacity to change.” Obama added that Byrd’s life showed “a basic truth about this country that we are not a nation of men, we are a nation of laws” and it is “precisely because we are fallible” that we must “safeguard these institutions.” 
 
Of Kennedy, Obama said he showed “resilience and good humor” in the face of events “that would have broken a lesser man.” And Kennedy was a creature of “an age when the joy and nobility of politics prevented differences of party and platform and philosophy from becoming barriers to cooperation and mutual respect — a time when adversaries still saw each other as patriots.” 
 
 
Similarly, he chose to highlight former House speaker Tom Foley’s civility and search for common ground in Congress. 
Longtime CBS television anchorman Walter Cronkite demonstrated curiosity and “simple values,” Obama said, and became “the most trusted man in America” by “telling the story of the American age” while adhering to “a standard of honesty and integrity and responsibility.” 
 
Obama spoke at the funeral of Dorothy Height, a civil rights and women’s rights leader who taught the value of service and working “toward advancing the greater good.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 of 39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Screen
 
Autoplay
 
 
Close
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public viewing at South Carolina statehouse
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skip Ad
 
 
 
×
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.C. preacher and lawmaker lies in state as flag debate continues
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Photos
 
 
 
State Sen. Clementa Pinckney’s coffin was displayed under the dome. He is the first African American given such an honor since at least Reconstruction.
 
 
 
 
Caption
 
 
 
Alabama’s Robert Bentley became the first Southern governor to use his executive power to remove Confederate banners.
 
 
 June 25, 2015
 
People watch the hearse carrying the casket of church pastor and South Carolina State Sen. Clementa Pinckney pass in front of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, where he was killed in a mass shooting in Charleston, S.C.
 
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wait 1 second to continue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While Mandela was not American, his memorial service also provided a chance for Obama to pay homage to qualities the South African leader possessed that Obama said transcended borders. Moreover, he said, Mandela helped shape his own public life, and “woke me up to my responsibilities 
. . .
 and set me on an improbable journey that finds me here today.” 
 
 Mandela “taught us the power of action, but also ideas; the importance of reason and arguments,” Obama said. Mandela also “disciplined his anger,” as Obama has often urged black Americans to do when facing injustices. 
 
Above all, the president said, “like America’s founding fathers, he would erect a constitutional order to preserve freedom for future generations.” 
 
Those public figures mostly lived long lives, but Obama manages to find lessons in civic morality from tragedies as well. The deaths of coal miners in West Virginia’s Upper Big Branch mine — which was later found to have violated a multitude of regulations — showed the value of community as they strove “in pursuit of the American Dream,” Obama said. 
 
After a chemical explosion in West, Tex., killed 15 people and injured more than 160 others in April 2013, Obama lauded the value of good neighbors and said “America needs towns like West.” 
 
The Boston Marathon attack showed the nation’s determination to maintain an open and free society, he said. 
 
And the shootings at Fort Hood, Tex., in November 2009 showed the need for security and the courage of those who serve in the nation’s military, even when far from what seemed like the front lines. 
 
But by the time of the school massacre in Newtown, and then the shootings at the Washington Navy Yard in September 2013, Obama began to suggest something is broken: “I fear there’s a creeping resignation that these tragedies are just somehow the way it is.” He said that “the main difference that sets our nation apart
 . . . 
is that we don’t do enough 
. . .
 to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and dangerous people.”
 
Then, as he has since the Charleston shootings, Obama said that “the change we need will not come from Washington” and that it must come “from the American people.” It wasn’t, and isn’t, clear how. 
 
Obama is not a frequent church-goer. But he has cited the influence of Reinhold Niebuhr, a community organizer turned unsuccessful politician turned Protestant theologian who warned of the danger of the Soviet Union. Back in Chicago,Obama had said after a service at the Rev. Jeremiah Wright’s church that he “felt God’s spirit beckoning me.” 
 
If Obama is in some sense religious, his eulogies don’t shout about it. He rarely mentions God more than a couple of times, and usually just in a parting “God bless” context. Jesus is mentioned only once (after the Newtown shootings). In the Byrd eulogy, Obama mentions a “righteous judge.” 
 
Scriptures are usually quoted, but the choices are familiar across religious persuasions. He is ministering not to a particular group, but to a nation. 
 
Friday’s eulogy for Pinckney could be different, in part because the pastor was killed in a church — specifically an African Methodist Episcopal church with a long history of rebellion. Obama also could knit the incident into the broader American narrative of improvement, of overcoming slavery that once plagued Charleston, or of advancing to a point when Pinckney could serve in the state legislature. 
 
Yet as Obama prepares to speak for the sixth time about victims of a mass shooting, can his faith in progress survive? What if tales of violence cannot be removed from the American hymnal? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steven Mufson covers the White House. Since joining The Post, he has covered economics, China, foreign policy and energy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
politics
 
whitehouse
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
 | 
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
 | 
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Joyful, Illiterate Kindergartners of Finland
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For 40 Lucky Children, an Escape From Congo's Diamond Mines
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That asteroid might have needed help wiping out the dinosaurs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amazon Will Stop Selling Google and Apple Streaming Devices at the End of the Month
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marco Rubio: Putin is a 'gangster' and a 'thug' — and here's how I'd take him on
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solar Panels Are About To Get Way, Way Better
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I'm a librarian who banned a book. Here's why.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sieren's China: No more fiddling, more slog
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 things Planned Parenthood's president admitted under oath
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ted Cruz is toast: It's not just that he won't be president -- his days in the Senate are numbered, too
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DARPA is testing implanting chips in soldiers' brains
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to Protect Yourself From Peeple, the ‘Yelp for People' App
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Is it safe to cook with hot tap water?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Election 2016 Is 'Feeling The Bern'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five Things We Learned from the Ravens 23-20 win over the Pittsburgh Steelers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paige: Memories of Mom keep me company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gunman in Oregon college shooting identified
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shout Your Abortion founder Amelia Bonow criticises LA Times for sensationalist death threat article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
politics
 
whitehouse
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
politics
 
whitehouse
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
 and 
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 