Charleston photographer arrested near church shooting - NY Daily News 
 
Charleston photographer arrested near church shooting - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
DAILY NEWS
 
 
 
New York
 
 
 
News
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Opinion
 
 
 
Living
 
 
 
Autos
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 World 
 
 
 
 Crime 
 
 
 
 The Week 
 
 
 
 News Pics 
 
 
 
 Blogs 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charleston photographer arrested near scene of church shooting: 'I was detained as a suspect'
 
 BY  
 Jason Silverstein 
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Updated: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 7:58 AM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WCSC-TV
 
Charleston, S.C., photographer Austin Rich was arrested for the shooting at AME Church before being released.
 
 
 
 

	A Charleston, S.C., photographer unwittingly became part of the city’s horror story Wednesday night, getting publicly arrested in the midst of the manhunt for the suspect who 
shot nine people dead
 at a black church.




EMANUEL AME CHURCH HAS LONG HISTORY, TIES TO SLAVE REBELLION



	Austin Rich was cuffed near the scene of the massacre, causing a brief social media uproar as some believed him to be the murderous madman. Local media never identified him as a suspect.



	Rich was released before midnight, and the real suspect remains on the run early Thursday morning.


 
 
 
Austin Rich/via Facebook
 
Rich had been taking pictures at a gas station near the church.
 
 
 







	“Tonight as many of you may already know I was detained as a suspect for the shooting that took place In downtown Charleston,” Rich wrote in a 
Facebook post
 after his release.



	“I want to assure everyone that I am safe and innocent.”



	White was taking pictures at a gas station close to the Mother Emanuel AME Church when news of the bloodbath broke, he said.




CHARLESTON CHURCH KILLER WENT ON RACIST RANT BEFORE SHOOTING



	He wrote on Facebook that he was “mistaken as the shooter because of my grey t-shirt” —a detail that matched the description of the suspect.



	“The officers rushed over to handcuff me,” he wrote.




FULL COVERAGE OF CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE




“I understand that the officers were simply doing their job and they did it well,” he added, noting he holds no grudge over the arrest.



	Rich said he was interviewing people for a daily photo project called “1,000 Days of Talking With Strangers,” similar to Brandon Stanton’s popular “Humans of New York” project, which Rich has cited as an influence.


 
 
Police just showed up with a man in handcuffs and took him inside the hotel. 
#chsnews
 
pic.twitter.com/3Qi0YmSeGC
— CS Tyson (@SamInteractive) 
June 18, 2015


 




 
 
@CoralNews
 Does that officer actually have his arm around this murderer? Wow
— rogetta (@rogtilford) 
June 18, 2015


 







	Rich did not immediately respond to requests for comment, and Charleston police have not commented on his arrest.




 
 
 
@mikeliggett via Twitter
 
Police in Charleston, S.C., respond to the fatal shooting of nine people at a black church in a suspected hate crime Wednesday night.
 
 
 







	The shooting at the church, which calls itself the oldest AME church in the South, is reportedly one of the worst mass shootings in South Carolina’s history. Police described the suspect as a white, blond male in his early 20s, who was wearing a grey sweatshirt and blue jeans.




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Gallery
 
 
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church re-opens for services
 
 







	Follow 
@jaysunsilver


jsilverstein@nydailynews.com
 
 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
Blaze smokes out pot stash
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Busted! On-cam politician killer arrested in Philippines: cops
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photographer sues Dept. of Homeland Security over arrest
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tags:
 
 
charleston church massacre
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
Discussion Guidelines
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
Sign In
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 
 
 
Most Shared
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
  TV reporter, cameraman fatally shot during live broadcast  
 
 
 
2
 
  Donald Trump mocks Asians with broken English in speech  
 
 
 
3
 
  Franchise owner warned Subway about Jared Fogle: lawyer  
 
 
 
4
 
  EXCLUSIVE: Vester Flanagan's mom had 'violent outbursts'   
 
 
 
5
 
  Woman, 24, found murdered in Md. home next to unharmed baby  
 
 
 
6
 
  Lupica: Gun death turns into bloodiest reality TV show  
 
 
 
7
 
  Anchor who witnessed WDBJ-TV shooting speaks out  
 
 
 
8
 
  Queens man indicted in road-race crash that killed 3  
 
 
 
9
 
  N.J. teacher who was late for work 111 times keeps job   
 
 
 
10
 
  N.C. man drops engagement ring into ocean during proposal   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
  Student gunned down at Savannah State University   
 
 
 
2
 
  Franchise owner warned Subway about Jared Fogle: lawyer  
 
 
 
3
 
  Ave. of the Americas vs. 6th Ave.  
 
 
 
4
 
  SEE IT: Inside Vester Flanagan’s barren apartment   
 
 
 
5
 
  Brit mom quits Coca-Cola, drops almost half her body weight  
 
 
 
6
 
  Senior citizen dies after mistaking stain remover for coffee  
 
 
 
7
 
  Nazi ghost train could be booby-trapped, authorities warn  
 
 
 
8
 
  Coyote caught roaming Md. beach was a pet: cops  
 
 
 
9
 
  Welcome to Penis Island! Scot sign in embarrassing mistake  
 
 
 
10
 
  Where's the bears? Tourist complains about lack of grizzlies  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


News
 Video






 
 
 






PC Richard and Son




 
 
 
 
 
 


















Media Kit


Home Delivery


Newsletters


Businesses


Place an Ad


About our Ads


Contact Us


Careers


FAQ's


Feeds


Site Map









            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
Terms of Service
 and
            
Privacy Policy
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 