Suspected Charleston church gunman Dylann Storm Roof caught - NY Daily News 
 
Suspected Charleston church gunman Dylann Storm Roof caught - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
DAILY NEWS
 
 
 
New York
 
 
 
News
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Opinion
 
 
 
Living
 
 
 
Autos
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 World 
 
 
 
 Crime 
 
 
 
 The Week 
 
 
 
 News Pics 
 
 
 
 Blogs 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dylann Storm Roof, suspected Charleston church gunman who killed 9 in massacre, caught in North Carolina
 
 BY  
 Edgar Sandoval 
  ,  
 Rachelle Blidner 
  ,  
 Meg Wagner 
  ,  
 Larry Mcshane 
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Updated: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 5:41 PM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JASON MICZEK/REUTERS
 
Police lead suspected shooter Dylann Roof, 21, into the courthouse in Shelby, North Carolina.
 
 
 
 
Chuck Burton/AP
 
Roof is a suspect in the shooting of several people Wednesday night at the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C.
 
 
 
 
Chuck Burton/AP
 
Roof shot and killed nine people in the church and reloaded his gun five times, according to witnesses. 
 
 
 
 
Todd Sumlin/AP
 
The car Roof drove in to get away from the scene. 
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enlarge
 
 
 

	One week before his arrest for a racist rampage at a revered Southern church, Dylann Storm Roof shared an apocalyptic vision of mass murder with a trailer park neighbor.



	“He was looking to kill a bunch of people,” recalled Christon Scriven, 22, just hours before his bigoted buddy’s arrest for a racially motivated killing spree. “He flat out told us he was going to do this stuff. He’s just off in the head . . . Weird.”



	The hate-fueled white gunman was busted Thursday morning after a 14-hour manhunt, suspected in the execution of nine helpless black worshippers inside the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C.




FULL COVERAGE OF THE CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE




The innocent, unarmed victims ranged in age from 26 to 87 — and included the venerable church’s pastor, an acquaintance of President Obama and First Lady Michelle.
 
 
 
 
 
 



	Chilling details emerged about Roof’s racist rants inside the church, the ignored pleas of his victims as he reloaded his handgun five times — and his release of one terrified woman to serve as a witness to the carnage.



	“The shooter said, ‘I’m not going to shoot you because I want you to tell everyone what happened,’ ” Charleston NAACP chapter President Dot Scott told a local newspaper — the Post and Courier — the survivor said.



	Roof arrived at 8 p.m. for the Wednesday prayer meeting, bringing a heart filled with evil and a fully loaded handgun, officials said. He spent an hour with his victims before declaring his murderous intent with a merciless four-word announcement: “You have to go.” Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the slain pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, told MSNBC that a survivor recounted how Roof delivered one final crazed comment before the shooting started.



	“I have to do it,” he was quoted as saying. “You rape our women and you’re taking over our country.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHARLESTON COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY/Flickr
 
Cynthia Hurd, a regional branch manager at Charleston County Public Library, was one of the victims who died in the South Carolilna church shooting.
 
 
 
 
Facebook
 
Sharonda A. Coleman-Singleton has been confirmed by Charleston Southern University as one of those killed in the shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.
 
 
 
 
Grace Beahm/AP
 
State Sen. Clementa Pinckney, who was also the church pastor, was among those killed.
 
 
 
 
Facebook
 
 Allen University alumnus Tywanza Sanders was also killed in the mass murder at Emanuel AME Church..
 
 
 
 
CHARLESTON COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY/Flickr
 
Cynthia Hurd is seen in 2011.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enlarge
 
 




SUSPECTED CHURCH SHOOTER DYLANN ROOF GOT GUN FOR BIRTHDAY



	Eight of the victims were found dead inside the house of worship with two centuries of history, while the ninth died in the operating room of a nearby hospital. Three people survived the bloodshed.



	Roof, 21, a high school dropout and accused drug user, was nabbed after driving 245 miles from the church parking lot to the town of Shelby, N.C. — where a woman recognized his black Hyundai and Three Stooges-style bowl haircut.



	“A terrible human being who would go into a place of worship where people are praying and kill them is now in custody — where he will always remain,” said Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ethel Lance was a devoted member of the Emanuel AME Church where she worked for more than 30 years.
 
 
 
 
Southern Wesleyan University
 
DePayne Middleton-Doctor was a mother of four daughters who sang in the church choir.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enlarge
 
 



	The mass slaying of the pastor and his flock during an evening Bible study session was immediately labeled a hate crime, even as it echoed sad chapters from America’s violent past.



	President Obama invoked the killing of four black girls in a 1963 Birmingham, Ala., church bombing by the Ku Klux Klan. And the shooting spree harkened to mass killings at the Sandy Hook Elementary School, a Colorado movie theater and the carnage at Virginia Tech.



	“The fact that this took place in a black church obviously . . . raises questions about a dark part of our history,” the President declared. But he also took aim at a Congress that has repeatedly rebuffed White House efforts on gun control.



	“At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries,” he said. “And it is in our power to do something about it. I say that, recognizing the politics in this town foreclose a lot of those avenues right now.”
 
 
 
 
WCBD
 
Dylann Roof's car is pictured after his arrest in Shelby, N.C., on Thursday.
 
 
 



	Obama noted that he and his wife personally knew some parishioners at the church — including its slain pastor, who was also a South Carolina politician.



	In other developments:



	- The FBI learned of Roof’s identity when childhood friend Joey Meek, 20, recognized his skinny friend’s face and grimy gray sweatshirt in a surveillance camera frame grab from the church.



	“I didn’t THINK it was him,” Meek said. “I KNEW it was him.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Gallery
 
 
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church re-opens for services
 
 



	- Roof waived both his right to extradition and his right to counsel and was being held pending a bond hearing in South Carolina Thursday night.



	- Cops released Roof’s 2015 rap sheet: A Feb. 28 bust for possession of a controlled substance in the local mall and an April 26 arrest for trespassing at the same mall.



	- An ominous Facebook photo showed the demented mass murder suspect glaring into the camera while wearing a black jacket decorated with an apartheid-era South African flag.



	- Roof’s father, Ben, refused to comment, calling the cops on a reporter at his South Carolina home. The suspect’s uncle said the dad’s 21st birthday present to Roof in April was a .45-caliber handgun.
 
 
 
 
 
 
BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/Getty Images
 
People visit a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church on Thursday in Charleston, S.C., after the mass shotting the night before.
 
 
 
 
BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS
 
A police car is seen through flowers on a road leading to the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., the morning after Wednesday's mass murder.
 
 
 
 
BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS
 
Mourners embrace outside Morris Brown AME Church before attending a vigil.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enlarge
 
 



	- The South Carolina state Legislature came under fire when the Confederate flag, a symbol of the Civil War and slavery, flew at full staff above the Statehouse after the racist murders.



	- The multiple murder suspect’s sister, 27-year-old Amber, is scheduled to get married Sunday.



	- None of the GOP presidential hopefuls — Sens. Marco Rubio, Rand Paul and Ted Cruz — linked gun control to the mass killing at the annual Faith & Freedom Coalition’s convention.



	But Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton said the time for legislation was now. “We have to be honest,” she said Thursday. “How many people do we need to see cut down before we act?”
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charleston County Sheriff's Office
 
Authorities said the arrest of Dylann Roof came without incident about at 10:49 a.m. after a local citizen called police to report that she had spied the suspect in his getaway car.
 
 
 
 
 


	Police were hunting for suspected gunman 21-year-old Roof.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enlarge
 
 



	Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten read off the sad litany of victims’ names, noting all were shot to death.



	The best known was the well-respected Rev. Pinckney, 41, who served as both pastor and state senator. Pinckney, the father of two girls and a preaching prodigy since age 13, was elected to the Statehouse at 23 — making him the youngest member of the House at the time.



	Three other church officials were also killed: Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45; Rev. Daniel Simmons, 74; and Myra Thompson, 59. Other victims included longtime parishioner Susie Jackson, 87, and one-time church janitor Ethel Lance, 70.



	The others killed were identified as public library branch manager Cynthia Hurd, 54; college enrollment counselor DePayne Middleton-Doctor, 49; and recent college grad Tywanza Sanders, 26.
 
 
 
 
Andy McMillan/Getty Images
 
Suspect Dylann Roof boarding a plane at Shelby-Cleveland County Regional Airport for extradition back to Charleston, South Carolina.
 
 
 



	Jackson’s niece, Cynthia Taylor, said she had spoken to a survivor, Felecia Sanders, who said she had played dead as she lay on top of her granddaughter to protect them both during the carnage.




TWITTER USERS SEEK JUSTICE AFTER CHARLESTON CHURCH SHOOTING



	Roof’s appearance at the church meeting did not alarm any of the worshipers, who are used to drop-ins from tourists visiting the historical building.



	Authorities said the arrest of the suspect came without incident at 10:49 a.m. after a local citizen spied Roof in his getaway car.
 
 
 
 
 
 
HANDOUT/REUTERS
 
Charleston police released survellience photos of showing Roof, who is suspected of killing nine people in the South Carolina church.
 
 
 
 
Charleston Police Department
 
He shot and killed nine people during Wednesday night bible study, police said.
 
 
 
 
Charleston Police Department
 
Roof fled the church in a black sedan after the attack, police said.
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enlarge
 
 



	Roof, roughly 25 minutes after he was stopped by cops, surrendered quietly. Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen characterized the killer as “cooperative” as he was taken into custody by local officers. Police said the suspect was still armed when approached by cops. Authorities believe Roof acted alone in planning and executing the lethal attack.



	The eagle-eyed citizen, a woman on her way to work at a Shelby florist, recognized Roof’s black Hyundai on Highway 74 and called her boss — who dialed cops.



	“I knew it was a black car . . . I saw pictures of him with the bowl cut,” a teary Debbie Dills told the Shelby Star newspaper after spotting the alleged murderer. Roof was fitted by cops with a bulletproof vest and shackles on his hands and feet before he was taken from the local police station to court.



	Roof’s trailer park pal Scriven, who is black, said the suspected shooter initially plotted to target the College of Charleston and not the church.
 
 
 
 
Chuck Burton/AP
 
Suspect Dylann Roof surrendered quiety after about 25 minutes of questioning by police.
 
 
 



	“You don’t know when to take him seriously and when not to,” said Scriven. “To be honest, I didn’t react (to the news). I was like, ‘Awww man, he did that s---.’ ”




NYC LEADERS APPALLED BY CHARLESTON CHURCH SHOOTING



	South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham said his niece Emily was once in the same eighth-grade class as Roof — described by the GOP presidential hopeful as “one of these whacked out kids.”



	Graham, after speaking with his sister Darline Nordone and his niece, told CNN that his relatives had nothing positive to say about Roof.
 
 
 
 
 



	“He was quiet, strange, very anti-social and everyone thought he was on drugs,” said Graham. “It’s about a young man who is obviously twisted.”



	Roof could face the death penalty under South Carolina law or federal hate crime statutes if the case goes that route.




Edgar Sandoval reported from Charleston, S.C.




ON A MOBILE DEVICE? 
WATCH THE VIDEO OF POLICE HERE
 AND 
WATCH THE VIDEO OF THE PASTOR'S COUSIN HERE
.
 
With 
Cameron Joseph
, 
Thomas Tracy
, 
News Wire Services
 
mwagner@nydailynews.com
 
 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
Dylann Roof wore white supremacist flag patches on jacket
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYC leaders appalled by Charleston church shooting
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nine killed at Charleston black church in hate crime
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charleston photographer arrested near church shooting
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tags:
 
 
charleston church massacre
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
Discussion Guidelines
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
Sign In
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Crime
 Video






 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COLD CASES
  & TRUE CRIME
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray
 
A PECULIAR ITEM recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rooney's wife slain by lover
 
Carolyn Mitchell  was one of those girls who seemed destined to make headlines. And did she ever.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice Story: John du Pont
 
The 1856 British Guiana one-cent magenta is a tiny octagonal red inch-wide stamp. Philatelic experts say that when it is auctioned at Sotheby’s in New York on June 17, this singular postal artifact is expected to fetch something around $20 million, the largest price ever paid for a stamp. By weight and size, it may be the most valuable object in the world. The stamp is just one souvenir of the strange legacy of John E. du Pont, a man who had everything money could buy but threw it away in one moment of blind violence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice Story: Vampire king
 
At more than 300 pounds and with dreadlocks cascading past his waist, Marcus Wesson, 57, was not what people generally think of when they hear the word “vampire.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice Story: Deadly mother-in-law
 
A Chicago undertaker summoned to a physician’s office took one look at a corpse on an exam table and diagnosed what should have been clear to the doctor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 
 
 
Most Shared
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
  Woman, 24, found murdered in Md. home next to unharmed baby  
 
 
 
2
 
  Queens man indicted in road-race crash that killed 3  
 
 
 
3
 
  Agent who killed Richard Matt says inmate aimed shotgun  
 
 
 
4
 
  Roanoke Shooting Belongs on the Front Page, Images and All  
 
 
 
5
 
  Florida couple left baby on sidewalk to drink in bar: cops  
 
 
 
6
 
  Zimmerman slams 'racist' Obama after Va. news crew killings  
 
 
 
7
 
  Sex ad gets Ohio cop arrested after he was choked, robbed  
 
 
 
8
 
  Mom dodges jail after kid, dogs found at feces-filled home  
 
 
 
9
 
  Las Vegas cop-killers wore adult diapers during shooting spree: cops  
 
 
 
10
 
  La. cop killed after triple stabbing was shot by his cousin  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
  Sex ad gets Ohio cop arrested after he was choked, robbed  
 
 
 
2
 
  Queens man indicted in road-race crash that killed 3  
 
 
 
3
 
  Agent who killed Richard Matt says inmate aimed shotgun  
 
 
 
4
 
  St. Louis toddler fatally shoots himself: police  
 
 
 
5
 
  Ex-teacher sentenced after pleading guilty to sex with boys  
 
 
 
6
 
  Dad invites daughter's alleged rapist to dinner, kills him: cops  
 
 
 
7
 
  Pro poker wiz 'Fossilman' busted in prostitution sting  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






PC Richard and Son




 
 
 
 
 
 


















Media Kit


Home Delivery


Newsletters


Businesses


Place an Ad


About our Ads


Contact Us


Careers


FAQ's


Feeds


Site Map









            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
Terms of Service
 and
            
Privacy Policy
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 