Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims | myfox8.com 
Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims

Posted 5:24 am, June 22, 2015, by Amber Roberts, Updated at 09:53am, June 22, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





GREENSBORO, N.C. — Members of Bethel AME Church in Greensboro are relying on their religion.
They are trying to overcome the shock, terror and pain they’ve experienced following the massacre of nine black people at a South Carolina church.
It’s the first Sunday following the shooting at Emanuel AME Church in South Carolina. Churches nationwide honored the victims.
“What was meant for evil in Charleston, as in so many other places, God is going to turn it for the good,” said Rev. Alphonso McGlen of Bethel AME Church.
McGlen organized a candlelight memorial between services on Sunday. Nine of his members displayed pictures of the men and women who were killed, and burned a candle in their memory.
Mozell N. Weston, who was at the memorial, grew up in South Carolina and was a member of the church where the shooting happened. She said participating in the special service will help her heal.
Officials said Dylann Roof, who is in custody, admitted to shooting the victims because he wanted to start a race war. Members of Bethel AME Church prayed for Roof’s family but also addressed the pain he has caused for people across the country.
“It ranges from anger, to fear for many and just still shocked… that this could still occur… for the reasons it occurred, in 2015,” McGlen said.

36.072635
-79.791975




Filed in: News Topics: Charleston 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine


News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre



 


News

SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

High Point church taking up offering for Charleston


News

Charleston shooting: 9 killed in ‘hate crime’ shooting at church


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting



 


News

Church security a consideration after deadly South Carolina shooting


News

Panthers donate $100k to families of victims in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

Dozens gather at Bethel A.M.E. in Greensboro to remember victims of Charleston shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















