Police-Involved Shooting « CBS Chicago

Police-Involved Shooting « CBS Chicago


















Chicago




Radio.com


CBS Local Sports


CBS Sports Radio


Tailgate Fan


Atlanta


Baltimore


Boston


Cleveland


Connecticut


Dallas


Denver


Detroit


Houston


Las Vegas


Los Angeles


Miami


Minnesota


New York


Philadelphia


Pittsburgh


Sacramento


San Francisco


Seattle


St Louis


Tampa


Washington






SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS


























Sponsored By






























CBS 2
Welcome to CBS 2 on CBSChicago.com! CBS 2 is joining forces with the most trusted local CBS RADIO stations in Chicago to give you the best Chicago has to offer as CBS Local. CBS 2 […]
WBBM Newsradio
Welcome to WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM, The Home of Chicago Bears Radio and Chicago Cubs Radio, on CBSChicago.com! WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM is joining forces with the CBS 2 Television and 670 The […]
670 The Score
Welcome to 670 The Score, the home of White Sox radio, on CBSChicago.com! The Score is partners with CBS 2 TV and WBBM 780, and they give you the best Chicago has to offer. 670 […]






Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube






















Home


News


Sports


Health


Audio


Video


Best Of


Events


Traffic


Weather


Contests


Directory


Travel


Deals


Circulars


Autos










 




 






Police-Involved Shooting
















Suspect Wounded In Police-Involved Shooting On South Side


A suspect was wounded during a police-involved shooting early Saturday in the South Side Chatham neighborhood.


03/24/2012














3 Robbers, Clerk Shot In Robbery, Police Shootout On West Side


Three armed robbers and a store clerk were wounded in a shootout with police Wednesday night in the West Side Austin neighborhood. 


03/14/2012














Police Fatally Shoot Woman In Hickory Hills


Police fatally shot a 49-year-old woman in her apartment building after an armed confrontation occurred over the weekend, neighbors say.


CBS Chicago–03/11/2012














Cops Fire At Teen Who Pointed Fake Gun At Them


Police opened fire on but did not strike a 17-year-old who pointed a fake gun at them in a Northwest Side alley Saturday night. The 17-year-old was later found hiding in the area and faces a number of charges, while another male he was with remained at large Sunday.


02/26/2012














Family Seeks Federal Probe Of Fatal Shooting By Calumet City Cops


About 10 people marched with the family of 15-year-old Stephon Watts Saturday, demanding sanctions against the Calumet City police officers who shot the autistic teen to death.


WBBM Newsradio–02/26/2012














Funeral Held For Autistic Teen Shot & Killed By Calumet City Cops


More than 700 people attended a funeral service in Dolton for the 15-year-old boy with autism who was shot to death February first by Calumet City Police.


CBS Chicago–02/19/2012














Person Shot By Off-Duty Cop At Fermilab


A traffic chase between an off-duty police officer and a car involved in a hit-and-run accident in the west suburbs Saturday ended on Fermi Lab property when the officer opened fire on the car, striking someone in the backseat.


02/19/2012














Man Shot Dead While Trying To Run Over Off-Duty Officer


A man was shot dead by an off-duty Chicago police officer outside the officer’s South Chicago neighborhood home when he tried to run the officer over with a van he had used to ram into the officer’s garage.


02/11/2012














Harvey Cops Nab Robbers Who Targeted Tow Truck Drivers


In south suburban Harvey, a sting by police has ended with a robbery suspect critically shot, and another taken into custody. The two men are suspected in a string of tow truck robberies in Harvey and other south suburbs.


CBS 2–01/11/2012














Man Shot By Police On Northwest Side


The man was shot by police at 6:36 p.m. in the 2100 block of North Laramie Avenue.


CBS Chicago–01/08/2012














Gunman Shot And Killed By Police In Marquette Park


Police shot and killed man in the Southwest Side Marquette Park neighborhood just after midnight on New Year’s Day.


01/01/2012














Man Charged With Pointing Gun At Cops In Woodlawn


A 23-year-old man has been charged with pointing a gun at Chicago police officers as he was running away from them over the weekend.


12/05/2011














Man Charged After Off-Duty Officer Shoots Suspect


A man was charged with aggravated assault after an off-duty Chicago Police officer shot a person who allegedly pointed a gun at him early Sunday in the River North neighborhood.


11/27/2011














Police Officer Hurt In Fatal Shooting On South Side


A Chicago Police officer shot a man dead after he began punching her in the face and trying to grab her gun after a police chase early Thursday on the South Side.


11/24/2011














Burglary Suspect Arrested After Pointing Gun At Cops


A burglary suspect was charged Wednesday with aggravated assault of a police officer after being shot when he allegedly pointed a gun at officers during a Monday night chase through the West Side.


11/23/2011














One Wounded In Police-Involved Shooting On South Side


Police shot a person late Saturday in the South Side Woodlawn neighborhood.


10/02/2011














Suspect Escapes After Cops Fire Shots During Traffic Stop


An armed robbery suspect escaped after Police officers fired shots at him on Monday when he pointed a gun at a police officer in the West Lawndale neighborhood.


09/26/2011














Suspect Charged In Connection With Fatal Police-Involved Shooting


A 20-year-old man was charged Friday in connection with the police-involved shooting late Thursday on the Northwest Side where police shot and killed a man who opened fire on them as they responded to a fatal shooting.


09/16/2011














Gunman Arrested After Police-Involved Shooting In Englewood


A man was arrested Tuesday evening, after pointing a gun at police officers in Englewood, prompting police to shoot the man.


CBS Chicago–09/13/2011














Hanover Park Murder Suspect Dies After Police Shot Him


A northwest suburban man called a person of interest in his wife’s murder died Sunday morning, nine days after police shot him in southwest suburban Lockport.


09/04/2011










more
 




previous
 








Listen Live




 


 
Most Popular News
2015 A Record Year For Tornadoes In Chicago Area
The Chicago area has set a record for the most tornadoes in a single year, according to National Weather Service data. 
 
463
2 Killed, 7 Injured In High-Speed Crash In Robbins; Drag Racing Suspected
A couple from south suburban Robbins was killed Thursday night, then their minivan was struck by two vehicles that appeared to be drag racing, and blew a stop sign.
 
185
Off-Duty Chicago Police Officer Dies After Motorcycle Crash
Tuesday afternoon, 35-year-old Jonathan Ho was riding a motorcycle at 95th Street and Vincennes Avenue, when it collided with another vehicle, according to Chicago Police and the Cook County medical examiner’s office.
 
230
Woman, 70, Attacked On Zion Bike Path
A 70-year-old woman was brutally attacked early Thursday while out for her morning walk on a popular bike path in north suburban Zion.
 
135
In-Flight Internet Provider Gogo Opens Chicago Headquarters
Gogo moved from the suburb of Itasca, Illinois, to a building in downtown Chicago that houses offices of other tech companies like Twitter and Uber. The site, which used to be called River Center, was renamed The Gogo Building.
 
71
Eight Wounded In Thursday Shootings Across Chicago
Most recently, two men were shot late Thursday in the West Side Austin neighborhood. The men, ages 19 and 20, were standing outside in the 1500 block of North Linder about 10:25 p.m. when shots were fired in their direction from a group of males standing on the corner across the street, according to Chicago Police.
 
80




Follow 
CBS Chicago
























Follow @CBSChicago












Like us on foursquare




































Follow More Stations and Personalities






 
Contests & Promotions
Blue Collar Bears Fan Of The Week
 
August 27, 2015
The Village of Bedford Park's Blue Collar Bears Fan Of The Week has officially kicked off. Nominate yourself, a family member, or friend for a chance to win a weekly $100 Gift Card To Hugo's Frog Bar & Fish House! 
Win Tickets To See Mayweather In Las Vegas
 
August 19, 2015
Twelve-time, 5-division world champion Floyd “Money” Mayweather and 2-time world champion Andre Berto touch gloves on Sept. 12 at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas and CBS Sports Radio wants you to be there!
Chicago Bears Miller Lite Kickoff Concert Online Giveaway 
 
August 18, 2015
Celebrate NFL Back to Football week at a free concert by Chicago's own Fall Out Boy, Friday, September 11th at the Park West in Chicago! Click here for your chance to win! Must be 21+ 
Tito’s Handmade Vodka Golf Outing And 19th Hole Party
 
August 3, 2015
Sign up now for your chance to win a twosome in the 2015 Tito's handmade Vodka golf outing and 19th hole party September 8th at Indian Lakes Resort. 
Latest Videos
 


 


More Contests & Promotions…
 


Twitter Updates



				RT @
dodgerman
: 2015 A Record Year For Tornadoes In Chicago Area 
 cbsloc.al/1LGzANK
 
24 minutes ago





				NOW: Live streaming of CBS2’s newscast. One click and you’re in the loop. Starts now: 
 CBSChicago.com/watch
 
#LIVE
 
33 minutes ago




 














News Via Email
 




Download The Free App
 




New Podcast Network
 




Download Our New Weather App!
 










 










News




Local


Investigative


Politics


Consumer


Health


Weather


Traffic






Sports




Bears


White Sox


Cubs


Blackhawks


Bulls


Podcasts


Blogs






Scores & Stats




NFL Football


MLB Baseball


NBA Basketball


NHL Hockey






Contact Us




CBS 2


WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM


670 The Score


Connect


Mobile






Corporate




About Us


Advertise


Business Development


Contact


Mobile


Connect










Chicago Business Listings




Restaurants


Bars & Clubs


Shopping


Professional Services


Search Listings








By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our 
Video Services Policy


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Your California Privacy Rights


Mobile User Agreement


Ad Choices


Advertise With Us


Contest & Promotion Rules


EEO Reports


WBBM-TV Public File


Internships


CBS Radio Jobs


CBS Television Jobs


Deals


 
Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP


 










Facebook


Twitter


RSS






Other CBS Local Cities 




CBS Atlanta


CBS Baltimore


CBS Boston


CBS Charlotte


CBS Chicago


CBS Cleveland


CBS Connecticut


CBS Dallas


CBS Denver


CBS Detroit


CBS Houston


CBS Las Vegas


CBS Los Angeles


CBS Miami


CBS Minnesota


CBS New York


CBS Philadelphia


CBS Pittsburgh


CBS Riverside


CBS Sacramento


CBS San Francisco


CBS Seattle


CBS St. Louis


CBS Tampa


CBS Washington










©2015 CBS Local Media,
 
a division of CBS Radio Inc.
 
All rights reserved.












Buy Tickets
Order Food
 


More


Channels
Buy Tickets
Order Food
Your Home
Contests
Mobile Alerts
Email Alerts
Daily Deals
50% Off From ATE Accessories
 




















Log In
Register
 




Follow Us


Facebook


Twitter


Youtube












 
























Listen Live








AM/FM Stations




93 XRT


US 99.5


KHiTS 104.3


B96


670 The Score


WBBM NewsRadio






Featured Shows & Multimedia




Play.It


The Spiegel & Goff Show


CBS Sports Radio


Radio.com








Advertise On Our Streams






























 




 

































