High Point church taking up offering for Charleston | myfox8.com 
High Point church taking up offering for Charleston | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







High Point church taking up offering for Charleston

Posted 10:36 pm, June 24, 2015, by Kim Wynne 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





HIGH POINT, N.C. — Churches around the country have been holding prayer vigils in the wake of last Wednesday’s shooting massacre where nine people were killed during bible study in Charleston.
Pastor Kinston Jones, of St. Stephen Metropolitan AME Zion Church, says along with spiritual support, his church is also trying to help show financial support to the victims’ families.
Since the shooting, Jones has been organizing a worship service where he is inviting all churches in High Point.
Money raised through the collection will go towards the victims’ families.
Jones is also starting a special Sunday offering to add to the fund.
“Money will not be able to take away the pain,” Jones said. “But if the families know that they have support, spiritual support and brothers and sisters that will be there for them after the burial of loved ones, I think it can certainly encourage them and help to know that someone is in the fight with them.”
The worship service entitled Unity in the Community will be held at St. Stephen at 6 p.m. June 30.
All proceeds will go towards the Charleston, S.C., Mother Emmanuel AME Church Hope Fund.

35.955692
-80.005318




Filed in: News Topics: Charleston, church shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims


News

Church security a consideration after deadly South Carolina shooting


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine



 


News

How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine


News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’



 


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


News

Officials investigating second fire at black church in South Carolina


News

SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















