<<<<<<< HEAD
Person Dies In Police-Involved Shooting In Zion « CBS Chicago

Person Dies In Police-Involved Shooting In Zion « CBS Chicago


















Chicago




Radio.com


CBS Local Sports


CBS Sports Radio


Tailgate Fan


Atlanta


Baltimore


Boston


Cleveland


Connecticut


Dallas


Denver


Detroit


Houston


Las Vegas


Los Angeles


Miami


Minnesota


New York


Philadelphia


Pittsburgh


Sacramento


San Francisco


Seattle


St Louis


Tampa


Washington






SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS


























Sponsored By






























CBS 2
Welcome to CBS 2 on CBSChicago.com! CBS 2 is joining forces with the most trusted local CBS RADIO stations in Chicago to give you the best Chicago has to offer as CBS Local. CBS 2 […]
WBBM Newsradio
Welcome to WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM, The Home of Chicago Bears Radio and Chicago Cubs Radio, on CBSChicago.com! WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM is joining forces with the CBS 2 Television and 670 The […]
670 The Score
Welcome to 670 The Score, the home of White Sox radio, on CBSChicago.com! The Score is partners with CBS 2 TV and WBBM 780, and they give you the best Chicago has to offer. 670 […]






Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube






















Home


News


Sports


Health


Audio


Video


Best Of


Events


Traffic


Weather


Contests


Directory


Travel


Deals


Circulars


Autos








Local


Investigative


Politics


Business


health


Consumer


Entertainment


National


World


Photos








 




 












Local






Person Dies In Police-Involved Shooting In Zion




April 4, 2015 10:46 PM


















 




Related Tags:


fatal
, 
Police-Involved Shooting
, 
Zion








(STMW) —
 A Zion police officer fatally shot a person Saturday afternoon in the northern suburb, police said.


About 1:55 p.m., someone called police reporting an argument or fight in the 2300 block of Gilead Avenue, according to a statement from Zion police. The caller also reported hearing a gunshot.


When officers arrived at the scene, a male ran and the officers chased him, police said.


A Zion police officer shot the male — whose exact age was not immediately known — near 24th and Galilee, police said.


After officers administered medical aid at the scene, the male was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead, police said. The officer was not injured, but was taken to the hospital as a precautionary measure.


A handgun was recovered at the scene, police said.


The Lake County Major Crime Task Force and the Lake County state’s attorney’s office are investigating.


(
Source: Sun-Times Media Wire &copy; Chicago Sun-Times 2015. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)


























 




















Listen Live










 


 
Most Popular News
2015 A Record Year For Tornadoes In Chicago Area
The Chicago area has set a record for the most tornadoes in a single year, according to National Weather Service data. 
 
463
2 Killed, 7 Injured In High-Speed Crash In Robbins; Drag Racing Suspected
A couple from south suburban Robbins was killed Thursday night, then their minivan was struck by two vehicles that appeared to be drag racing, and blew a stop sign.
 
185
Off-Duty Chicago Police Officer Dies After Motorcycle Crash
Tuesday afternoon, 35-year-old Jonathan Ho was riding a motorcycle at 95th Street and Vincennes Avenue, when it collided with another vehicle, according to Chicago Police and the Cook County medical examiner’s office.
 
230
Woman, 70, Attacked On Zion Bike Path
A 70-year-old woman was brutally attacked early Thursday while out for her morning walk on a popular bike path in north suburban Zion.
 
135
In-Flight Internet Provider Gogo Opens Chicago Headquarters
Gogo moved from the suburb of Itasca, Illinois, to a building in downtown Chicago that houses offices of other tech companies like Twitter and Uber. The site, which used to be called River Center, was renamed The Gogo Building.
 
71
Eight Wounded In Thursday Shootings Across Chicago
Most recently, two men were shot late Thursday in the West Side Austin neighborhood. The men, ages 19 and 20, were standing outside in the 1500 block of North Linder about 10:25 p.m. when shots were fired in their direction from a group of males standing on the corner across the street, according to Chicago Police.
 
80




Follow 
CBS Chicago
























Follow @CBSChicago












Like us on foursquare




































Follow More Stations and Personalities






 
Contests & Promotions
Blue Collar Bears Fan Of The Week
 
August 27, 2015
The Village of Bedford Park's Blue Collar Bears Fan Of The Week has officially kicked off. Nominate yourself, a family member, or friend for a chance to win a weekly $100 Gift Card To Hugo's Frog Bar & Fish House! 
Win Tickets To See Mayweather In Las Vegas
 
August 19, 2015
Twelve-time, 5-division world champion Floyd “Money” Mayweather and 2-time world champion Andre Berto touch gloves on Sept. 12 at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas and CBS Sports Radio wants you to be there!
Chicago Bears Miller Lite Kickoff Concert Online Giveaway 
 
August 18, 2015
Celebrate NFL Back to Football week at a free concert by Chicago's own Fall Out Boy, Friday, September 11th at the Park West in Chicago! Click here for your chance to win! Must be 21+ 
Tito’s Handmade Vodka Golf Outing And 19th Hole Party
 
August 3, 2015
Sign up now for your chance to win a twosome in the 2015 Tito's handmade Vodka golf outing and 19th hole party September 8th at Indian Lakes Resort. 
Latest Videos
 


 


More Contests & Promotions…
 


Twitter Updates



				RT @
dodgerman
: 2015 A Record Year For Tornadoes In Chicago Area 
 cbsloc.al/1LGzANK
 
24 minutes ago





				NOW: Live streaming of CBS2’s newscast. One click and you’re in the loop. Starts now: 
 CBSChicago.com/watch
 
#LIVE
 
33 minutes ago




 
















News Via Email
 




Download The Free App
 




New Podcast Network
 




Download Our New Weather App!
 










 










News




Local


Investigative


Politics


Consumer


Health


Weather


Traffic






Sports




Bears


White Sox


Cubs


Blackhawks


Bulls


Podcasts


Blogs






Scores & Stats




NFL Football


MLB Baseball


NBA Basketball


NHL Hockey






Contact Us




CBS 2


WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM


670 The Score


Connect


Mobile






Corporate




About Us


Advertise


Business Development


Contact


Mobile


Connect










Chicago Business Listings




Restaurants


Bars & Clubs


Shopping


Professional Services


Search Listings








By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our 
Video Services Policy


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Your California Privacy Rights


Mobile User Agreement


Ad Choices


Advertise With Us


Contest & Promotion Rules


EEO Reports


WBBM-TV Public File


Internships


CBS Radio Jobs


CBS Television Jobs


Deals


 
Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP


 










Facebook


Twitter


RSS






Other CBS Local Cities 




CBS Atlanta


CBS Baltimore


CBS Boston


CBS Charlotte


CBS Chicago


CBS Cleveland


CBS Connecticut


CBS Dallas


CBS Denver


CBS Detroit


CBS Houston


CBS Las Vegas


CBS Los Angeles


CBS Miami


CBS Minnesota


CBS New York


CBS Philadelphia


CBS Pittsburgh


CBS Riverside


CBS Sacramento


CBS San Francisco


CBS Seattle


CBS St. Louis


CBS Tampa


CBS Washington










©2015 CBS Local Media,
 
a division of CBS Radio Inc.
 
All rights reserved.












Buy Tickets
Order Food
 


More


Channels
Buy Tickets
Order Food
Your Home
Contests
Mobile Alerts
Email Alerts
Daily Deals
50% Off From ATE Accessories
 




















Log In
Register
 




Follow Us


Facebook


Twitter


Youtube


































Listen Live








AM/FM Stations




93 XRT


US 99.5


KHiTS 104.3


B96


670 The Score


WBBM NewsRadio






Featured Shows & Multimedia




Play.It


The Spiegel & Goff Show


CBS Sports Radio


Radio.com








Advertise On Our Streams






























 




 
































=======
Behind the Hate Crime Massacre in a Black Charleston Church - The Daily Beast Behind the Hate Crime Massacre in a Black Charleston Church - The Daily BeastThe Daily BeastPoliticsEntertainmentWorldU.S. NewsTech + HealthBeastStyleBooksGames Written byNico Hines Jason Ryan Katie Zavadski facebooktweetpostSUBMITSUBMITSUBMITSUBMITPOSTPSYCHO06.18.158:09 AM ETBehind the Hate Crime Massacre in a Black Charleston ChurchThe killer waited his time in the pews, then gunned down black people at a prayer meeting before fleeing.A lone white shooter massacred nine people during a prayer meeting at one of the South’s most venerable black churches last night.
The shooter, a young man dressed unremarkably in a sweatshirt, jeans, and Timberlands, sat inside the church in Charleston, South Carolina, for about an hour alongside his intended targets before opening fire.
GALLERY: Remembering the Victims of Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church (PHOTOS)Randall Hill/ReutersAt around 9 p.m. ET, after reportedly telling one member of the congregation that he was sparing her so that she could spread word of his heinous attack, he fled into the night.
FBI officers suspect that man was Dylann Roof, 21, from Columbia, South Carolina. His uncle told Reuters that he recognized his nephew when he saw the surveillance photo of the wanted man. “The more I look at him, the more I’m convinced, that’s him,” said Carson Cowles.

His uncle said Roof was given a .45-caliber pistol by his father for his 21st birthday in April.

Three men and six women were slain by the gunman at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on Charleston’s Calhoun Street. Police said there were three survivors.
Within hours of the crime, police said they believed they were dealing with a hate crime.
Among the dead was Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, 41, a respected community leader with a bright future in the church. His former mentor told The Daily Beast that his murder will deepen racial tensions in a community that is still splintered more than 154 years after South Carolina declared that it would secede from the Union to defend slavery. 
“His loss is an incalculable loss for our church and for the state,” said Joseph Darby, the presiding elder of the 32 AME churches in the southern part of the state. “He was a caring pastor, a progressive advocate, and a very nice guy, with a wife and two daughters. A very down-to-earth, good person.”
Although distinctions are made between such killings and “terrorism,” for the sake of comparison one may note that in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, while many were badly injured, three people were killed by two improvised explosive devices. In Charleston, one man with what appears to have been one gun killed three times that many.
If a white supremacist proves to have been behind this attack, it will have been one of the most horrific in civil-rights history, coming 52 years after the Ku Klux Klan detonated explosives at a black church in Birmingham, Alabama, killing four girls.
Darby, a former pastor of the Morris Brown AME Church a few blocks from the shooting, said police were increasing security at all of his churches but insisted that they would remain open despite fears of further attacks. “Hopefully there will be no more, but nobody is closing down church. They have tried to engage in that kind of racist terrorism since the beginning of America. It hasn’t worked yet, and it won’t work now,” he said. “People play divisive political games to stir up racists because sometimes that means they go to the polls to vote; sometimes folks that are less able take up a gun and do something stupid.”
Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the slain pastor, told MSNBC that she had spoken to one of the survivors who said the gunman had reloaded five times during the attack. When they tried to talk him into putting the gun down, she said: “He just said, ‘I have to do it. You rape our women and you’re taking over our country.”

Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen said the full might of the America’s law enforcement would do “whatever we have to do” to catch the suspect. “From the time this call came in, we have resources coming from all over the East Coast,” he said during a press conference Thursday morning. But the gunman is still at large and still considered extremely dangerous.
Racial tensions were heightened in the region after a white North Charleston policeman was filmed shooting and killing Walter Scott, a black man, who was running away from him in April.
GALLERY: Charleston Church Shooting Aftermath (PHOTOS)
David Goldman/APReporters for Charleston’s Post and Courier captured some of the emotion in the streets. “I’m lost, I’m lost,” John Quil Lance told one of them:
“‘Granny was the heart of the family.’ He said his grandmother had worked at the church for more than 30 years. ‘She’s a Christian, hardworking; I could call my granny for anything. I don’t have anyone else like that.’ He said he didn’t know her condition. ‘I don’t even know if she’s alive now.’ He threw his hands up. ‘I don’t even know if my grandmother is alive.’ He paced up and down Ashley Avenue, and his thoughts gathered momentum. ‘What was this guy thinking? That dude shot a bunch of elderly people! Now people are going to be afraid to go to church. I don’t know what’s going to come of this. I’ll tell you this, I’m not the only one praying tonight.’ At 12:45 a.m., as word spread about the deaths, Lance fell to the ground and sobbed. ‘Somebody better get that [expletive].’”
Eight people were killed inside the church and another victim died in an ambulance on the way to the hospital.
For Charleston Mayor Joe Riley, the horror of Wednesday night began to unfold when he heard his landline phone ringing. His gut told him right away there was a problem.
He picked up the receiver to find city Police Chief Greg Mullen on the line.
“How are you?” asked the mayor.
“Very bad,” said the chief.
Riley soon learned of the nightmare that taken hold of downtown Charleston. He changed into a coat and tie and headed toward the church, ultimately joining family members of the victims at a nearby hotel. There, he says, people were “weeping and holding each other, praying.”
“It was a very heartbreaking experience,” said the mayor. “The most inventive novelist couldn’t come up with something that deranged… It shows a hateful and deranged mind.”
Riley, a Democrat who has been mayor since 1975, said last night’s church shooting would motivate him to renew his call for stricter gun laws.
“This is just a very tragic and heartbreaking example of why this is needed,” he said.
South Carolina State Representative Wendell Gilliard, a friend of Pastor Pinckney, said the loss of his colleague must become a moment to inspire gun-control reforms.
“We should not go around insisting on being able to carry guns in every place,” said Gilliard. “You know what we should be armed with?” he asked. “Dignity, respect, and love for all mankind.”
sharetweetpostemailSUBMITSUBMITSUBMITSUBMITPOST commentsAbout usContact usJobsAdvertiseHelpMobile SitePrivacyCommunity PolicyTerms & ConditionsCopyright & Trademark© 2014 The Daily Beast Company LLC
>>>>>>> origin/master

