South Carolina shooting: Walter Scott didn’t grab Taser, video witness says | FOX2now.com 
South Carolina shooting: Walter Scott didn’t grab Taser, video witness says | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







South Carolina shooting: Walter Scott didn’t grab Taser, video witness says

Posted 7:46 am, April 9, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 




The man who recorded cell phone video of a South Carolina police officer fatally shooting a fleeing man says he didn’t see the man grab the officer’s Taser — potentially contradicting what the officer told dispatchers.
In two interviews with NBC, Feidin Santana said that he was walking to his job in North Charleston on Saturday morning when he saw Officer Michael Slager chase Walter Scott.
Deciding to see what was going on, he followed and saw the two struggling on the ground, he told NBC’s Lester Holt on Wednesday.
“They were down on the floor … before I started recording,” Slager said. “I remember the police (officer) had control of the situation. He had control of Scott.”
Santana said he heard the sound of a Taser being used, and that he believed Scott was trying to get away from it.
But Scott never got the Taser or used it on the officer, Santana told NBC on Wednesday and Thursday.
“He never grabbed the Taser of the police. He never got the Taser,” Santana told NBC’s Matt Lauer on Thursday on “Today.”
Santana’s video, which he said began after the struggle on the ground, shows Slager shooting at 50-year-old Walter Scott eight times as Scott, who was unarmed, has his back to him and is running away.
Any words exchanged between Scott and Slager are not audible on the released tape. It’s also unclear what happened before Scott started to run away, or why he ran.
The officer initially said that he used a Taser stun gun on Scott and that Scott tried to take his weapon.
Before the officer starts firing at Scott, the video shows a dark object falling behind him and hitting the ground. It’s not clear whether that is the Taser.
Later in the video, when Slager approaches Scott’s body, he drops a dark object next to the man. Again, it’s not clear whether that’s the Taser.
It’s unknown whether Scott took the officer’s Taser, and it’s unclear whether the officer picked the object up and moved it closer to the body.
“Shots fired. Subject is down,” Slager told dispatch, according to an audio recording. “He took my Taser.”
An autopsy of Scott showed that he “sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the back of his body,” and his death was the result of a homicide, the Charleston County Coroner’s Office said.
Slager is now charged with murder. The FBI is involved in the investigation of the slaying of the father of four.
By Jason Hanna


CNN’s Ryan Scallan, Christine Bear, Tristan Smith, Martin Savidge, Dana Ford, Sam Stringer, Randi Kaye, Chandler Friedman, Evan Perez, Don Lemon and Steve Brusk contributed to this report.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (3 images)





 


 




Filed in: News 













 






Antenna TV
KTVI’s digital channel 2.2 shows hit movies and classic TV.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Officer who killed Walter Scott fired; protesters demand justice


News

Walter Scott’s family plans burial as questions swirl in his death


News

Officer charged with murder after shooting black man in back: What we know


News

New witness, dash cam video emerge in South Carolina shooting case


News

New audio captures officer ‘laughing’ after deadly South Carolina shooting



 


News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

South Carolina ex-police officer indicted in Walter Scott killing


Trending

Police officer charged with murder after shown on video shooting black man in back


News

The Latest: Rally for black man killed by cop draws about 50


News

Orlando police chief: No reason to suspend officers who kicked man



 


News

Deputy who shot man in Tulsa will turn himself in


News

Dylann Storm Roof arrested in North Carolina, according to report


News

Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















