Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday | Fox 59 
Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday

Posted 9:25 AM, June 21, 2015, by Sabrina Adams - Assignment Editor 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 
The Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is the oldest AME church in the South. Nine people died in a hate crime shooting on June 17, 2015. 


×
Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


 The Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is the oldest AME church in the South. Nine people died in a hate crime shooting on June 17, 2015.


CHARLESTON, S.C. (June 21, 2015) — The site of a horrific mass killing will become a house of worship again.
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, will hold a service at 9:30 a.m. Sunday.
Nine people were shot to death Wednesday night at the church.
Two law enforcement officials said Dylann Roof of Lexington, South Carolina, admitted to shooting and killing the people he’d sat with for Bible study at the historically black church.
Roof, 21, is white, and all the victims were black. He told investigators he did it to start a race war, according to one of the officials.
The church area remained a crime scene, and thus off-limits to church members, until Charleston police released it Saturday.
One of the victims was the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney. The Rev. Norvel Goff, presiding elder of Emanuel AME, told CNN he will give the sermon at the service.
Charleston, nicknamed the Holy City because it has so many churches, will remember the shooting victims in other ways.
Unity chain planned
At 10 a.m. Sunday, many churches plan to ring their bells, CNN affiliate WCSC reported.
On Sunday night, a unity chain will be held on the 13,200-foot-long Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge. Organizers hope to attract enough people to hold hands and stretch from Charleston to the town of Mount Pleasant on the other side of the Cooper River.
“When something this horrendous happens this close to home, you are compelled to do something,” event coordinator Dorsey Fairbairn said on Facebook.
‘Hate’s not in me’
On Friday, Roof appeared at a bond hearing. Families of the victims addressed him and said they forgave him.
That message was echoed by Arthur Hurd, husband of victim Cynthia Hurd. He’s in the Merchant Marines and arrived in Charleston on Saturday.
“This is all surreal, but what I can say to that young man is that in time I will forgive you,” Hurd told CNN affiliate WCIV.
“I won’t move past this but I will forgive you. But I hope for the rest of your life, however long or short that may be, you stop and play that tape over and over and over again in your head and see the sheer terror and pain you put purely innocent people through. …”
“I would love to hate you but hate’s not in me. If I hate you I’m no better than you.”
People angry about the killings took to the streets Saturday.
In Charleston, hundreds joined the March for Black Lives.
The group began the march in total silence as they walked to Emanuel AME Church from a nearby park, stopping outside the church to lay flowers at the makeshift memorial.
Once they passed the church, the group filled Charleston’s iconic King Street, usually packed with tourists this time of year. Many carried signs of support for the victims of the Charleston shooting and the black community: “STILL WE RISE,” “Hand in Hand,” “Do the right thing,” “Black Lives Matter.”
The march ended with a rally outside the historic Daughters of the Confederacy building.
‘Take it down’
“That terrorist did not win. He wanted to invoke terror and fear in our community, but we are not for that,” an organizer said to the crowd. “We are standing up together, arm in arm. … We will not bow down, but we will stand up.”
Despite the sweltering heat, a large crowd filled the front grounds of the South Carolina Capitol in Columbia calling for the Confederate flag to be removed.
“Take it down, take it down,” chanted the crowd filled with people of all races and ages holding signs.
One woman’s sign said, “Love breeds love, hate breeds hate.” Another man’s sign said, “Remove my ancestors sign.”
Organizers of the event, the South Carolina Progressive Network, estimates between 1,500 and 1,700 people attended.
Investigators are looking at a website featuring a racist manifesto that mentions Charleston as the “historic” target of an attack and displays images of Roof.
Racist website
The 2,000-word text explains the writer’s philosophy of white superiority, saying the Trayvon Martin case “truly awakened me” and that “I chose Charleston because it is most historic city in my state, and at one time had the highest ratio of blacks to Whites in the country.”
Motive has become the biggest question as state and federal investigators work on the case — and statements and photos on the website match what investigators have determined so far.
Martin’s parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, addressed the gunman’s assertion. Their son was killed by in 2012 by a neighborhood watch volunteer who was acquitted.
“The Trayvon Martin movement was not created to incite hate or further racial divide, but rather birthed to raise awareness to the social injustices that exist across America with regards to senseless gun violence against our young black and brown boys; the movement also focuses on the growing disparities in the lack of prosecution of the actual perpetrators,” they said in a statement.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



PHOTOS: Areas of central Indiana flooded after overnight storms



Heavy flooding and water rescues Sunday morning



Police arrest driver in motorcycle crash that killed a passenger



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Morgan County residents clean up after flash flooding overtakes homes and creates a muddy mess



Closing arguments to begin Monday morning in Richmond Hill Trial



New Mexico Amber Alert teen found safe in Indianapolis, suspect in custody



Tornado rips through Johnson County; damage repairs underway





 












News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


National & World News

FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof


National & World News

Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime


Crimetracker News

Family of Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof speaks for the first time



 


National & World News

Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice,’ bond set at $1 million


National & World News

Charleston shooting victims’ names released


National & World News

Confederate flag lowered from South Carolina Capitol


National & World News

WATCH: President Obama sings ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting



 


News

Apple reinstates some Confederate flag Civil War games


News NewsPoint

Indianapolis church congregation says lowering of SC Confederate flag is historic for all Americans


National & World News What's Trending

Sister of alleged Charleston shooter starts GoFundMe campaign to pay for ‘dream honeymoon’






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















