Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre | myfox8.com 
Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre

Posted 10:17 pm, June 27, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 



×
Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre


 


CHARLESTON, S.C. — On this hot, humid Saturday, in Charleston, South Carolina, hundreds of people gathered once more at Emanuel AME Church to pay their respects and say their final farewells to three of the nine people killed in last week’s shooting during a Bible study class. Family, friends, strangers black and white, all came together for “home going” services for Cythia Hurd, Susie Jackson and Tywanza Sanders.
Cynthia Graham Hurd
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, who has attended all six of the funerals held so far for the victims who’ve come to be known as “the Emanuel Nine,” said 54-year-old Cynthia Hurd was someone she only read about but wishes she had known. ” I love the fact that she said she was inspired by her mom because ‘can’t’ was never in her vocabulary,” Haley told the mourners.
Standing on the pulpit, decorated on both sides with huge matching floral arrangements of colorful, yellow and red flowers, Haley joked that, ” After every service I come to, I’m convinced I’m going to become an AME member after this.”
Hurd’s casket was adorned with a huge spray of pink and burgundy roses. Framing both sides of the casket, were nearly life-sized photos of Hurd from important occasions in her life. Next to the casket — a large, heart-shaped floral wreath dominating the sanctuary, infused with a startling bunch of red roses in the middle, bringing to mind a broken heart.
One after another friends, coworkers and relatives spoke of how loved Hurd was in her community. They spoke of how she never had kids of her own, but “adopted” everyone else’s kids, and of how much her loss had impacted her husband, Steve.
Rev. Jessie Jackson marveled at how the community of Charleston had come together, turning the other cheek and showing love in the face of hatred.
“Cythia Hurd not only taught us how to love, it was her family who taught us how to forgive”, said Haley. “She not only taught us how to love, it was her family who taught us how to forgive” she said.
Susie Jackson and Tywanza Sanders
Almost as soon as one funeral ended, the next began for 26-year-old Tywanza Sanders and his 86-year-old aunt Susie Jackson. They were together at Bible study that fateful night. When the shooting began he jumped up to try to protect his aunt and both were killed. They were remembered together on Saturday.
Both caskets sat before the pulpit — a huge spray of pink flowers on hers and dark purple flowers on his.
There were words of comfort from Charleston Mayor Joesph Riley, who has also attended every funeral. “Within this heartbreaking tragedy” he said “you, the family and this community of prayer have sent a desperately needed message to the world. And that is: you respond to hate with love.”
Referencing the controversy surrounding the Confederate flag, Jackson said there have been efforts to “get it down” for many years. “But, somehow there’s power in the blood” he told the mourners. “And the stained banner of blood brought it down and it will stay down.” Jackson also thanked Haley for saying publicly that it was time for the flag to come down.
Haley spoke again from the pulpit at the funerals of Jackson and Sanders, saying, “It doesn’t matter how many funerals you go, to they’re all hard, because it shouldn’t have happened.”
Haley spoke directly to the families telling them “I’ve struggled through all of these funerals because this happened on my watch. And what I can tell you is we will make this right. They will not have died in vain.”
Three more funerals remain
The funeral for Rev, DePayne Middleton-Doctor, who was 49, is planned for Sunday at 1 p.m. ET, also at Emanuel AME church.
On Monday, Myra Thompson, who was 59 will be laid to rest. Her funeral will take place at Emanuel AME church as well.
Plans have not been announced for the funeral of Rev. Daniel L. Simmons, Sr. who was 74.

32.776475
-79.931051




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: South Carolina church shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine


News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine



 


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

Panthers donate $100k to families of victims in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded


News

Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims



 


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















