Coroner: Teen Killed By Zion Police Shot Twice In Back « CBS Chicago

Coroner: Teen Killed By Zion Police Shot Twice In Back « CBS Chicago


















Chicago




Radio.com


CBS Local Sports


CBS Sports Radio


Tailgate Fan


Atlanta


Baltimore


Boston


Cleveland


Connecticut


Dallas


Denver


Detroit


Houston


Las Vegas


Los Angeles


Miami


Minnesota


New York


Philadelphia


Pittsburgh


Sacramento


San Francisco


Seattle


St Louis


Tampa


Washington






SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS


























Sponsored By






























CBS 2
Welcome to CBS 2 on CBSChicago.com! CBS 2 is joining forces with the most trusted local CBS RADIO stations in Chicago to give you the best Chicago has to offer as CBS Local. CBS 2 […]
WBBM Newsradio
Welcome to WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM, The Home of Chicago Bears Radio and Chicago Cubs Radio, on CBSChicago.com! WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM is joining forces with the CBS 2 Television and 670 The […]
670 The Score
Welcome to 670 The Score, the home of White Sox radio, on CBSChicago.com! The Score is partners with CBS 2 TV and WBBM 780, and they give you the best Chicago has to offer. 670 […]






Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube






















Home


News


Sports


Health


Audio


Video


Best Of


Events


Traffic


Weather


Contests


Directory


Travel


Deals


Circulars


Autos








Local


Investigative


Politics


Business


health


Consumer


Entertainment


National


World


Photos








 




 












Local






Coroner: Teen Killed By Zion Police Shot Twice In Back




April 6, 2015 6:34 AM


















View Comments
 






Related Tags:


crime
, 
Fight
, 
Justus Howell
, 
Police-Involved Shooting
, 
Shot By Police
, 
Zion








UPDATED: 6 p.m., 4/6/15 


CHICAGO (CBS/STMW) —
 Autopsy results released Monday afternoon say a Waukegan teen who was shot and killed by Zion police on Saturday was shot in the back.


The Lake County Coroner says 17-year-old Justus Howell was shot twice in the back and one of the bullets penetrated his liver and heart, WBBM Newsradio’s Terry Keshner reports.


Saturday’s shooting happened after a Zion officer responded to reports of an argument or fight and a possible gun shot.


According to a statement from the Zion Police Department, officers immediately administered medical assistance to the teen, who was transported to an area hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Police also said that they recovered a handgun from the scene.


WBBM 780’s Terry Keshner
 WBBM 780/105.9FM
play
pause


Also Monday, authorities met with community leaders as a potentially volatile situation unfolded. The invitation-only meeting was held at the Christian Assembly of God Church, CBS 2’s Jim Williams reports. Among the attendees were the Zion police chief and the Lake County state’s attorney.


Representatives of the NAACP’s local chapter also attended and promised to withhold judgment – for now.


“We’re trying to make sure that we get all the facts and let the investigation take its course, and then the NAACP will make a decision based upon that,” Jennifer Witherspoon said.


Zion Community activist Clyde McLemore says the shooting of Howell is reflects the uneasy relationship between Zion police and the African-American community.


“Black lives matter,” McLemore says. “We just went through this with Ferguson (Mo.), and I have been saying that Zion is another Ferguson just waiting to explode.”


The Lake County Major Crimes Task Force and the Lake County State’s Attorney are investigating. WBBM has reached out to the Zion Police Department for comment.


Dozens of family and friends gathered Sunday at the scene of Saturday’s shooting to remember Justus, whom they say was an aspiring rapper.


His mother, LaToya Howell, said Justus wanted to go to medical school to be a surgeon.


“Justus was a young man murdered by Zion police,” she said. “As he was fleeing from police, they killed my son. He couldn’t have been a threat if he was running.”


Two witnesses said Howell was not armed at the time of the shooting.


Michael Dizzone and his wife live in a home directly across the street from where Howell was shot. Dizzone said his wife was looking out of her bedroom window when she saw and heard the officer shoot Howell twice.


“She saw him fall to the ground,” Dizzone said. He said his wife told police what she saw and that she did not see a gun on or around Howell. “She was really upset.”


Bobbie Vaughn, who lives nearby, said she heard two shots and began running toward the scene, following a police officer. When she arrived, she saw Howell on the ground.


“I heard the officer tell the other officer, ‘I shot him,’ ” she said. “They were shaking him, but he didn’t move. He was on his stomach, so they turned him over and the police officer I was with gave him CPR.”


Vaughn said that she remained on the scene for quite some time and did not see police uncover a weapon.


“I didn’t see a gun, no knife, nothing,” she said.


LaToya Howell said her son would have celebrated his golden birthday on June 18, when they had plans for a big party. The party guests were planning to wear white and gold.


“He was on the path to becoming a man,” she said. “He loved to rap and went by the name ‘Lil’ Meachi.”


Howell’s great aunt, LaDonnia Gilmore, of North Chicago, said she believed that an evil act was committed.


“Justus was a baby in the eyes of many,” she said. “There are more babies dying than seniors. They don’t even have a chance to carry out their careers. We want to make a statement that the police brutality must decrease.”


Tyrece Branch, 17, whose father is engaged to Howell’s mother, ran to the scene Saturday as soon as he heard that Justus, whom he considered his brother, was shot.


“I got a call that Meachi is on the floor and I was like, ‘It can’t be him,’ ” Branch said.


“I got real emotional, real angry,” he said. “He’s been in my life since I was 5 and we were real close.”


The vigil was peaceful as the participants chanted, “Justice for Justus.” Many sported T-shirts with Howell’s picture and the same sentiment. Others just hugged and cried.


While most of the group was made up of family members and friends, some came just because they were angry about what happened to a member of their community.


“You can’t keep killing our black children and not tell us why,” said Vanessa Gibbs, of Zion. “When is this going to stop? I’ve heard too many of these stories and I’m tired.”


(Source: Sun-Times Media Wire © Chicago Sun-Times 2015. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)


























View Comments
 




















Listen Live










 


 
Most Popular News
2015 A Record Year For Tornadoes In Chicago Area
The Chicago area has set a record for the most tornadoes in a single year, according to National Weather Service data. 
 
463
2 Killed, 7 Injured In High-Speed Crash In Robbins; Drag Racing Suspected
A couple from south suburban Robbins was killed Thursday night, then their minivan was struck by two vehicles that appeared to be drag racing, and blew a stop sign.
 
185
Off-Duty Chicago Police Officer Dies After Motorcycle Crash
Tuesday afternoon, 35-year-old Jonathan Ho was riding a motorcycle at 95th Street and Vincennes Avenue, when it collided with another vehicle, according to Chicago Police and the Cook County medical examiner’s office.
 
230
Woman, 70, Attacked On Zion Bike Path
A 70-year-old woman was brutally attacked early Thursday while out for her morning walk on a popular bike path in north suburban Zion.
 
135
In-Flight Internet Provider Gogo Opens Chicago Headquarters
Gogo moved from the suburb of Itasca, Illinois, to a building in downtown Chicago that houses offices of other tech companies like Twitter and Uber. The site, which used to be called River Center, was renamed The Gogo Building.
 
71
Eight Wounded In Thursday Shootings Across Chicago
Most recently, two men were shot late Thursday in the West Side Austin neighborhood. The men, ages 19 and 20, were standing outside in the 1500 block of North Linder about 10:25 p.m. when shots were fired in their direction from a group of males standing on the corner across the street, according to Chicago Police.
 
80




Follow 
CBS Chicago
























Follow @CBSChicago












Like us on foursquare




































Follow More Stations and Personalities






 
Contests & Promotions
Blue Collar Bears Fan Of The Week
 
August 27, 2015
The Village of Bedford Park's Blue Collar Bears Fan Of The Week has officially kicked off. Nominate yourself, a family member, or friend for a chance to win a weekly $100 Gift Card To Hugo's Frog Bar & Fish House! 
Win Tickets To See Mayweather In Las Vegas
 
August 19, 2015
Twelve-time, 5-division world champion Floyd “Money” Mayweather and 2-time world champion Andre Berto touch gloves on Sept. 12 at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas and CBS Sports Radio wants you to be there!
Chicago Bears Miller Lite Kickoff Concert Online Giveaway 
 
August 18, 2015
Celebrate NFL Back to Football week at a free concert by Chicago's own Fall Out Boy, Friday, September 11th at the Park West in Chicago! Click here for your chance to win! Must be 21+ 
Tito’s Handmade Vodka Golf Outing And 19th Hole Party
 
August 3, 2015
Sign up now for your chance to win a twosome in the 2015 Tito's handmade Vodka golf outing and 19th hole party September 8th at Indian Lakes Resort. 
Latest Videos
 


 


More Contests & Promotions…
 


Twitter Updates



				RT @
dodgerman
: 2015 A Record Year For Tornadoes In Chicago Area 
 cbsloc.al/1LGzANK
 
25 minutes ago





				NOW: Live streaming of CBS2’s newscast. One click and you’re in the loop. Starts now: 
 CBSChicago.com/watch
 
#LIVE
 
34 minutes ago




 
















News Via Email
 




Download The Free App
 




New Podcast Network
 




Download Our New Weather App!
 










 










News




Local


Investigative


Politics


Consumer


Health


Weather


Traffic






Sports




Bears


White Sox


Cubs


Blackhawks


Bulls


Podcasts


Blogs






Scores & Stats




NFL Football


MLB Baseball


NBA Basketball


NHL Hockey






Contact Us




CBS 2


WBBM Newsradio 780 & 105.9FM


670 The Score


Connect


Mobile






Corporate




About Us


Advertise


Business Development


Contact


Mobile


Connect










Chicago Business Listings




Restaurants


Bars & Clubs


Shopping


Professional Services


Search Listings








By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our 
Video Services Policy


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Your California Privacy Rights


Mobile User Agreement


Ad Choices


Advertise With Us


Contest & Promotion Rules


EEO Reports


WBBM-TV Public File


Internships


CBS Radio Jobs


CBS Television Jobs


Deals


 
Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP


 










Facebook


Twitter


RSS






Other CBS Local Cities 




CBS Atlanta


CBS Baltimore


CBS Boston


CBS Charlotte


CBS Chicago


CBS Cleveland


CBS Connecticut


CBS Dallas


CBS Denver


CBS Detroit


CBS Houston


CBS Las Vegas


CBS Los Angeles


CBS Miami


CBS Minnesota


CBS New York


CBS Philadelphia


CBS Pittsburgh


CBS Riverside


CBS Sacramento


CBS San Francisco


CBS Seattle


CBS St. Louis


CBS Tampa


CBS Washington










©2015 CBS Local Media,
 
a division of CBS Radio Inc.
 
All rights reserved.












Buy Tickets
Order Food
 


More


Channels
Buy Tickets
Order Food
Your Home
Contests
Mobile Alerts
Email Alerts
Daily Deals
50% Off From ATE Accessories
 




















Log In
Register
 




Follow Us


Facebook


Twitter


Youtube


































Listen Live








AM/FM Stations




93 XRT


US 99.5


KHiTS 104.3


B96


670 The Score


WBBM NewsRadio






Featured Shows & Multimedia




Play.It


The Spiegel & Goff Show


CBS Sports Radio


Radio.com








Advertise On Our Streams






























 




 

































