Police: Video shows Ferguson shooting suspect with gun | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 


Police: Video shows Ferguson shooting suspect with gun | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV














Go
Search
















 Replay: 
PIX11 News 



PIX11 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV




 
Menu




NEWS


Local


Morning


Sports


PIX Team


Contests


Traffic


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
68°


High 
81°












Sat





					71° 
 86°
					






Sun





					74° 
 90°
					






Mon





					75° 
 92°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Police: Video shows Ferguson shooting suspect with gun




Posted 4:53 AM, August 12, 2015, by 
CNN
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
Email
Google
 








FERGUSON, Missouri — Crowds scatter and duck for cover around him. But a man in a white T-shirt sprints forward, waving a gun in his hand.


Investigators say that image, captured in a surveillance video released by the St. Louis County Police on Tuesday, shows the chaotic scene that erupted in Ferguson, Missouri, as a shooting broke out early Monday during protests marking the anniversary of Michael Brown’s death. The man holding a handgun, they say, is 18-year-old Tyrone Harris.


Police have said they later shot the teen after he unleashed a “remarkable amount of gunfire” at officers, a characterization his family disputes.


“From what I heard, he was there with some friends and they had a confrontation. They start shooting at the friends, and he just happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time,” Harris’ father, Tyrone Harris Sr., told CNN affiliate KMOV.


His aunt, Karen Harris, said the teen attended the protests because he was friends with Brown. Recounting what other family members who were with him described, she said her nephew wasn’t carrying a gun and never fired at police. He was “running for his life” just like everyone else, she said, when gunshots rang out.


But police say Harris was firing gunshots himself, an account another person who said he was at the scene of the shooting corroborated.


“Tyrone was right next to me. He was shooting back at them and all that. … And police shot back at him,” 18-year-old Seth Norfleet told CNN.


Authorities have said Harris is hospitalized in critical condition. Prosecutors have charged him with four counts of first-degree assault on law enforcement, five counts of armed criminal action and one count of discharging a firearm at a motor vehicle.


City on edge


The shooting early Monday left the St. Louis suburb on edge as protesters planned more events.


Several peaceful demonstrations unfolded in the area Monday, but violence surged once again at a protest in Ferguson on Monday night as some protesters threw rocks and bottles at police.


The St. Louis County police said frozen water bottles were thrown at officers, prompting them to order the crowd to disperse or face arrest.


“Safety, our top priority, is now compromised. This is no longer a peaceful protest. Participants are now unlawfully assembled,” the department tweeted. About 23 arrests were made late Monday and early Tuesday, police said.


Police Chief Jon Belmar tried to calm tensions by speaking with some demonstrators, who then moved from the street to the sidewalks.


However, others seethed as word spread that police had arrested a 12-year-old girl. Police contended she was 18, citing her ID.


More controversy arose as well over a pair of arrests made last year in the wake of protests over Michael Brown’s shooting death: those of The Washington Post’s Wesley Lowery and The Huffington’s Post Ryan Reilly, who were briefly detained after being told they were trespassing as they worked in a McDonald’s along the protest route.


St. Louis County on Monday, 363 days after their arrests and two days shy of the statute of limitations, charged the reporters with trespassing and interfering with a police officer.


Both news outlets cast the arrests as gross First Amendment violations at the time, and they maintained that theme in Tuesday’s responses. Marty Baron, executive editor of The Washington Post, called the charges “outrageous,” while HuffPo’s Washington bureau chief Ryan Grim said it was police who committed crimes by assaulting reporters during “violent arrests.” The National Association of Black Journalists called the charges “a direct assault on the free exercise of the First Amendment.”


Video posted on social media showed Reilly having another run-in with police early Tuesday. In it, Reilly and an officer are seen tussling — Reilly tweeted that the officer “tried to grab me and snatched my press badge” — before Reilly pulls away, putting his hands behind his back and saying, “I’m media. I’m media. I’m media.”


Reilly was covering demonstrators who took to the streets in spite of a heavy police presence, scurried away, regrouped and returned.


Among the crowd were a handful of heavily armed members of an organization called the Oath Keepers. A man out on patrol described the group as constitutionalists who were hired to protect reporters for InfoWars.com, a website run by radio host Alex Jones, who has questioned everything from the moon landing to 9/11.


State of emergency


Earlier, a top St. Louis County official declared a state of emergency, saying violence had marred demonstrations marking the one-year anniversary of Brown’s death.


“The recent acts of violence will not be tolerated in a community that has worked so tirelessly over the last year to rebuild and become stronger,” St. Louis County Executive Steve Stenger said in a statement.


The executive order put Belmar in charge of police operations in Ferguson and the surrounding areas.


Ferguson Mayor James Knowles and the City Council issued a statement saying they were disappointed in the behavior on display, calling it “counterproductive” and vowing it wouldn’t be tolerated. They also applauded law enforcement officers, who they said “exemplified respect, community engagement and professionalism under extremely difficult circumstances.






PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]






PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit






DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says






New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]










Trademark and Copyright 2015 
Cable News Network
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
News
 
Topics:
 
Ferguson
, 
Michael Brown
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Watch The CW Now!


See last night’s episodes now on The CW
















 




 






Popular








NBA great Darryl Dawkins has died at 58 years old








Video showing shootings of WDBJ crew posted under Bryce Williams Twitter, Facebook accounts








Reporter, photographer shot to death on air in Virginia








‘Dead’ teen ‘wakes up’ screaming, banging inside coffin; family smashes tomb
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








Calif. man bitten while taking selfie with rattlesnake








CEO of Ashley Madison parent company steps down after hack








WATCH IT: Sinkhole swallows 5 people in China is captured on video












 


























News




Dozens arrested after protests turn violent in Ferguson






News




St. Louis County issues state of emergency amid unrest of Michael Brown shooting anniversary






News




Shooter in critical condition after being shot by police during protest in Ferguson






News




PIX11 in Ferguson: Gunfire erupts after what had been peaceful anniversary of Michael Brown’s death






News




One year later: Eric Garner’s daughter says ‘still no answers, still no justice’








 






New Jersey




‘Give me all your money right now!’: Video shows armed robber shoot at clerk






News




Protesters rally around NYC to mark 1-year anniversary of death of Michael Brown






News




Michael Brown’s father calls Chicago exhibit of his son ‘disgusting’






News




Ferguson residents look ahead 1 year after Michael Brown’s death






New Jersey




Cop stand-off in Asbury Park went on for nearly an hour








 






News




Disturbing video shows deadly daytime shooting in the Bronx






News




SEE IT: Video shows police shoot hammer attack suspect near Penn Station






News




Queens paintballers are terrorizing community














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 5,004 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com


















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







































