4 arrested after shootings of 2 Mississippi police officers | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 


4 arrested after shootings of 2 Mississippi police officers | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV














Go
Search
















 Replay: 
PIX11 News 



PIX11 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV




 
Menu




NEWS


Local


Morning


Sports


PIX Team


Contests


Traffic


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
68°


High 
81°












Sat





					71° 
 86°
					






Sun





					74° 
 90°
					






Mon





					75° 
 92°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















4 arrested after shootings of 2 Mississippi police officers




Posted 10:12 AM, May 10, 2015, by 
PIX11 Report
, 
Updated at 05:24pm, May 10, 2015
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
Email
Google
 












HATTIESBURG, Miss. (PIX11/AP) —
 A law enforcement official says four people have been arrested and two of them have been charged with capital murder in the fatal shootings of two Mississippi police officers during a weekend traffic stop in Hattiesburg.


The suspects allegedly opened fire on the two officers around 8:30 p.m. during a routine traffic stop near the center of town.


The two officers, 34-year-old Benjamin Deen and 25-year-old Liquori Tate, a recent academy graduate, died after being rushed to a local hospital.  Deen was a former “officer of the year” with the Hattiesburg Police Dept.






NYPD Commissioner Bratton tweeted, “Our prayers are with everyone at Hattiesburg Police Dept. & the families of Police Officers Deen & Tate. We will never forget.”


Police arrested Curtis Banks (left) and Marvin Banks (right) in connection with the killings. (Hattiesburg Police Dept.)


Two Hattiesburg residents, Tamika Mills and Pearnell Roberts, described the bloody scene to a 
Clarion-Ledger reporter
, saying:


“Never in my life have I experienced or seen anything like this except on TV, and to be in the midst of it, it’s shocking and heartbreaking.  As we were coming down Fourth Street, we noticed a bunch of lights.  As we came on through, (Roberts) told me to turn around because she saw somebody laying on the ground . . . I turned and I saw another officer across the street rolling on the ground.  (Roberts) ran across the street to check on him.  He wasn’t all the way alert but he asked her, ‘Am I dying?  I know I’m dying.  Just hand me my walkie-talkie.'”


Joanie Calloway, 22, is also charged with murder (Hattiesburg Police Dept.)


Warren Strain, a spokesman for the Mississippi Department of Public Safety, tells The Associated Press that 29-year-old Marvin Banks and 22-year-old Joanie Calloway have each been charged with two counts of capital murder, and Banks’ 26-year-old brother, Curtis Banks, has been charged with two counts of accessory after the fact of capital murder.


Strain also says Marvin Banks also faced other charges. He says officers arrested the three Hattiesburg residents at different locations overnight without resistance following Saturday night’s fatal shooting.


Both men have past convictions on weapons charges.


It wasn’t immediately known if those arrested had lawyers.


 








Trademark and Copyright 2015 
The Associated Press
. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
News
 
Topics:
 
Curtis Banks
, 
Joanie Calloway
, 
Marvin Banks
, 
MISSISSIPPI
, 
police
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Watch NJ Lottery drawings live


Winning numbers and daily results
















 




 






Popular








NBA great Darryl Dawkins has died at 58 years old








Video showing shootings of WDBJ crew posted under Bryce Williams Twitter, Facebook accounts








Reporter, photographer shot to death on air in Virginia








‘Dead’ teen ‘wakes up’ screaming, banging inside coffin; family smashes tomb
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








Calif. man bitten while taking selfie with rattlesnake








CEO of Ashley Madison parent company steps down after hack








WATCH IT: Sinkhole swallows 5 people in China is captured on video












 


























News




Woman loses job after allegedly celebrating murders of Mississippi police officers






News




How much do blue lives matter? How anti-cop language, White House no-shows raise big legal issues






News




Arrest made in post-concert shooting outside PNC Bank Arts Center






News




University of Cincinnati cop Ray Tensing charged with murder in driver’s killing






News




Ex-con suspected of fatally shooting Memphis officer Sean Bolton turns himself in








 






Queens




Suspect charged after police officer is critically injured in Queens shooting






News




Shooter in critical condition after being shot by police during protest in Ferguson






News




Police recover loaded gun, marijuana from man peeing in Queens street






News




Texas police officers shoots, kills 19-year-old college football player






Queens




Demetrius Blackwell arraigned on attempted murder charges as NYPD officer fights for his life








 






News




Teen arrested after member of mayor’s security detail shot






Queens




Queens DA to announce grand jury results in cop death






News




‘Piece of burger’ viral video star arrested soon after gaining Internet fame














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 5,004 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com


















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







































