Sacramento Police Investigating Fatal Shooting | FOX40 
Sacramento Police Investigating Fatal Shooting | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police Investigate Fatal Shooting in North Sacramento

Posted 4:36 PM, April 26, 2015, by Genny McLaren and Doug Johnson 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





SACRAMENTO-
The Sacramento Police are investigating a fatal shooting on Lampasas Avenue near Beaumont Street in North Sacramento.
At least one man is dead and detectives are trying to determine a motive and a suspect for the crime.
Police received calls about 3 p.m. reporting shots fired in the area. When officers arrived, they found a man in his late 30s who had been shot and killed.
The man was outside of an apartment where neighbors say he lived.
Nicholas Johnson said he knows the man who was killed. He said he was a father who deserved better.
” I know he was a cool guy. I never really see him too much. He stayed out there with his son,” Johnson said.
Neighbor Victor Taylor says shootings occur in the neighborhood on an almost nightly basis.
“He was a pretty nice guy. Why they killed him, I can’t answer that,” Taylor said.
Police are trying to determine if the shooting was gang related, but both Taylor and Johnson said they’re pretty sure it was.
“You’re on the wrong street, and it’s the wrong side, and it’s the color, and you’re not supposed to be on that side…” Johnson said.
Police hope witnesses will come forward with details on who pulled the trigger, but Johnson believes many won’t talk.
“You talk, they label you a snitch, so a lot of people will be scared, thinking something will happen to them,” Johnson said.
While they may be too scared to talk, Johnson said many people who live in the area just want the violence to end.
Stay with FOX40 and FOX40.com for updates on this developing story.



Filed in: Local News 













 






Circle FOX40 on G+!
Join the conversation by circling FOX40 on Google+







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












National and World News

South Carolina Police Shooting: Authorities Release Dash Cam Video


Local News

Suspect in Carmichael Shooting, Standoff Identified


Local News News

Teen Shot, Killed Outside North Sacramento Home


National and World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are Jail Neighbors, Police Confirm


Local News

Turlock Police Investigating Possible Drug Related Shooting



 


Local News

Suspect Killed in Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton


Local News

Family and Friends of Slain Man Still Wonder Why Weeks Later


Local News

19-Year Sheriff’s Deputy on Administrative Leave After Shooting


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


Local News

New Details Emerge about Man Shot Multiple Times by Officer



 


Local News

Shots Fired, Suspect Hit During Domestic Dispute


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War


National and World News

New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















