Police Protocols Questioned After South Carolina Officer-Involved Shooting | FOX40 
Police Protocols Questioned After South Carolina Officer-Involved Shooting | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Former Sheriff John McGinness Weighs in on South Carolina Shooting

Posted 6:22 PM, April 9, 2015, by Marin Austin, Updated at 06:21pm, April 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





Local police brutality activists questioned general law enforcement protocols Thursday after viewing video of a deadly April 4 shooting in South Carolina park, in which a white Charleston police officer shot an unarmed black man in the back.
“Just the number of shots … I get the feeling if he hit him with the first shot, those next shots were still coming,” activist Jamier Sale of Natomas told FOX40.  “This isn’t just nationally, it’s local, too.”
Sale added that his sister, Maile Hampton, was recently arrested at an anti-police brutality protest for allegedly lynching, or removing someone from police custody.
Former Sacramento Sheriff John McGinness said it appears in the video that protocol was not followed.
“What I find most troubling is the conduct after the shooting,” McGinness said.
He questions why Michael Slager went back to pick up what video forensic experts estimate could be his Taser. After that, Slager appears to drop the Taser next to Walter Scott’s body.
“That is troubling,” McGinness said. “It shows you a few things. It shows consciousness of guilt, a term under the law that shows he knew what he was doing was wrong.”
McGinness emphasized that a different type of force should have been used.
“Chase him on foot. I would support [that] use of force. If needed… deliver blows to detain the subject and then take him into custody,” McGinness said.
FOX40 reached out to multiple local law enforcement officials who declined to comment on the video.
Slager is in custody in South Carolina and is not eligible for bail.



Filed in: Local News 













 






Circle FOX40 on G+!
Join the conversation by circling FOX40 on Google+







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












National and World News

South Carolina Police Shooting: Authorities Release Dash Cam Video


National and World News

New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting


National and World News

Officer Charged with Murder after Video Shows him Shooting Man in Back


National and World News

South Carolina Ex-Police Officer Indicted in Walter Scott Killing


National and World News

Local Activists, Former Law Enforcement Weigh in on Baltimore Events



 


National and World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are Jail Neighbors, Police Confirm


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War


Local News

New Details Emerge about Man Shot Multiple Times by Officer


National and World News

Deputy Charged in Deadly Tulsa Shooting



 


National and World News News

Dallas Police HQ Attack: Suspect Believed Killed During Standoff


National and World News

Charleston Victims: 9 Lives Lost to Family and Community


Local News

Stockton Police Investigating Four Shootings; Two Fatal






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















