DOJ to review Cleveland police shooting | FOX2now.com 
DOJ to review Cleveland police shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







DOJ to review Cleveland police shooting

Posted 6:58 pm, May 23, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 




 



×
DOJ to review Cleveland police shooting


 


The Department of Justice announced Saturday that it will review the 2012 shooting of an unarmed black couple by a white police officer in Cleveland.
The announcement comes hours after a Cuyahoga County judge ruled that police officer Michael Brelo was justified in the Nov. 29, 2012 shooting, which ended with Brelo getting on top of a car’s hood and firing 15 shots through the windshield, killing the couple.
The DOJ said in a press release that it will review the testimony and evidence presented at Brelo’s trial.
“We will continue our assessment, review all available legal options and will collaboratively determine what, if any, additional steps are available and appropriate given the requirements and limitations of the applicable laws in the federal judicial system,” the statement said.
Ohio politicians reacted swiftly to Saturday’s verdict.
“In Ohio, we are working hard to rebuild strong communities where every voice is heard and respected — and we’re making progress, but we’ve got a lot of work to do,” Ohio Gov. John Kasich said in a statement. “Even in the middle of the strong feelings many have today, we can’t lose sight of how Ohio has begun to successfully come together.”
Ohio Democratic Rep. Marcia Fudge, who is black, told CNN’s Fredricka Whitfield she’s “disappointed” with the verdict.
“What happens in our communities is that some people get the benefit of the doubt, and some people do not,” Fudge said. “Too often, people in the African-American community do not, and so we are treated very, very differently by the judicial system.”
She referenced other recent incidents in which African-Americans died at the hands of white police officers, and called for reforms in the criminal justice system.
Fudge also took to Twitter to share her opinion on the decision.
Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, D-New York, also took to Twitter to share his opinion.
Soon after the verdict was announced, dozens of protesters took to Cleveland’s streets to peacefully demonstrate against the decision. Speaking at a press conference Saturday afternoon, Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson said he would support peaceful demonstrations.
“This is a defining moment for Cleveland as we look at this verdict, and we respond to that verdict, and we, as a city, move ahead in a way that will ensure that whatever the injustices may be will no longer happen again,” he said.
By Daniella Diaz

38.907192
-77.036871




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: Cleveland, doj, police shooting 













 






Events Calendar
See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Judge finds Cleveland police officer not guilty of all counts in deadly shooting


News

Cleveland protesters appear in court


News

Protests follow acquittal of Cleveland police officer


News

Cleveland community leaders to ask judge for murder charges in Tamir Rice case


News

2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody



 


News

Tamir Rice death investigation complete


News

Read the entire wrongful death lawsuit filed by Michael Brown’s family


News

Judge rules there’s evidence to charge Cleveland officers in Tamir Rice shooting


News

Circuit Attorney: Officer won’t face charges in shooting death of VonDerrit Myers


News

DOJ launches hate crime investigation into Charleston church shooting



 


News

Talks with DOJ in Missouri town about ticket quotas end


News

16-year-old boy charged in Ohio quadruple homicide


News

No charges for Wisconsin police officer in shooting death of biracial teen






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















