Arraignment set for man in Ferguson police shooting | FOX2now.com 
Arraignment set for man in Ferguson police shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Arraignment set for man in Ferguson police shooting

Posted 5:17 am, June 3, 2015, by Associated Press and Dan Gray 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





CLAYTON, Mo. (AP) _ The man accused of shooting two police officers during a protest in Ferguson is slated to appear in court.
Twenty-year-old Jeffrey L. Williams is scheduled to be arraigned Wednesday on charges of felony assault, armed criminal action and a weapons offense.
Williams is accused of wounding a St. Louis County officer and a Webster Groves officer on March 12 during an early morning rally sparked by the resignation of Ferguson’s police chief. Both officers survived.
The demonstration that night was sparked by the resignation of then Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson. The protest was on the verge of breaking up when the shots suddenly rang out.
Prosecutors say Williams told investigators he fired a gun but was aiming at someone else. Williams’ attorney has countered that Williams was beaten by police into wrongly confessing, an allegation police deny.
A county police spokesperson says the county officer has returned to work in a limited capacity but won`t be back to full duty until august at the earliest.
The Webster Groves officer is not back at work though authorities have said a full recovery is expected.
Williams is jailed on $300,000 cash bond.

38.642552
-90.323726




Trademark and Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News 













 






Have a news tip?
Do you have a story you want FOX 2 to investigate?  E-mail us.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Hearing set for man accused of Ferguson protest shooting


News

Man accused of Ferguson shooting again heads to court


News

Attorney: Man accused in Ferguson shooting to stay jailed


News

Activists sue over prosecutor’s role in Ferguson grand jury


News

The Latest: Rally for black man killed by cop draws about 50



 


News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

St. Louis County police resigning at alarming rate


News

Ferguson police chief presses to diversify police force


News

Man shot in Ferguson as protesters gathered near Canfield Drive


News

ISP investigates East St. Louis Housing Authority shooting



 


News

Protests follow acquittal of Cleveland police officer


News

Cleveland protesters appear in court


News

Michael Brown’s friend sues Ferguson, Officer Darren Wilson and police chief






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















