Increased Stockton Police Presence Expected after String of Shootings | FOX40 
Increased Stockton Police Presence Expected after String of Shootings | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Increased Stockton Police Presence Expected after String of Shootings

Posted 5:17 PM, May 26, 2015, by Kay Recede 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





STOCKTON-
Stockton police investigators are looking into why nine people were injured in five separate shootings that happened in the span of two hours Monday night. Investigators added the shootings may be gang related.
On Tuesday they ramped up patrol in all five areas to prevent more gun violence.
One woman we spoke with heard the gunshots from the Central Stockton shooting. She believed increasing police presence is just a part of the solution. “Bop, bop, bop just back-to-back of each other,” Tamala Frederickson, a Stockton resident said.
For Frederickson, getting a candy bar at the Cal Park Grocery and Liquor store is an act of bravery.
“Am I safe? Will I be all right? Will I get shot? I was just concerned for my safety and the people that I live with as well,” she said.
The young woman told FOX40 she’s been nervous since hearing the gunshots that injured an adult victim near California and Park at 8:50 Monday night.

Just minutes before, in South Stockton, investigators said two male victims were shot on the 1500 block of Spring Street, an area police have claimed is gang territory.
Around 8:30, gunshots rang in Southwest Stockton on 8th and Lincoln where a suspected gang affiliated Hispanic man shot at a woman.
At 9 p.m. police said three men were shot in the 1000 block of North Wilson. It wasn’t over.
At 10:30 p.m. on West and Morada, investigators said two more people were shot.

All nine victims are expected to survive, according to police.
Stockton’s Black Leadership Council President Ralph Lee White believes more patrol is needed 24/7.
“If you want to stop a lot of the violence, you put your police in the area,” White said.
Stockton Police have been working with a short staff over the years but they’re planning to increase police presence in each of these areas.
“They’re going to target those gangs so that we don’t have any retaliatory shootings,” Officer Joe Silva, a Spokesman with the Stockton Police Department said.
For Frederickson — anything to potentially curb the violence is welcome.
“I don’t want to get shot, at all,” she said. “So I was pretty nervous at first, but I got a sweet tooth right now.”
We asked police about how they’re fighting the stigma against snitching because a lot of these communities people will often stay quiet for fear of retaliation. They pointed out that anyone can leave anonymous tips through their Facebook page or Crimestoppers.



Filed in: Local News 













 






 Join FOX40 Tonight at 10
Watch on FOX40 News at 10







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












Local News

Stockton Employees Remain Vigilant in Wake of Violence


Local News

UPDATE: Stockton Police Investigate Five Separate Shootings


Local News

UPDATE: Two Killed in Separate Incidents in Stockton


News

One Dead, One Injured in Two North Sacramento Shootings


Local News

Suspect Killed in Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton



 


Local News

Suspected Subway Shooter Taken into Custody


Local News

Man Shot to Death in Front of Stockton Church


Local News

Neighborhood Impact Teams Reach Out to Stockton Residents


Local News News

Authorities Investigate Car Crash, Shooting in South Sacramento


Local News

Boy, 4, Injured After Being Tossed Out of Car by Suspect



 


Local News

Suspect in Carmichael Shooting, Standoff Identified


Local News

Stockton Police Report Spike in Armed Robberies


National and World News

16-Year-Old Boy Charged in Ohio Quadruple Homicide






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















