Suspect in North Carolina college killing captured sleeping on beach | Fox 59 
Suspect in North Carolina college killing captured sleeping on beach | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Suspect in North Carolina college killing captured sleeping on beach

Posted 7:44 AM, April 14, 2015, by Matt Adams - Web Producer 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 



×
Suspect in North Carolina college killing captured sleeping on beach


 


By Josh Levs
CNN
(CNN – April 14, 2015) — The man accused of shooting and killing an employee at Wayne Community College in Goldsboro, North Carolina, on Monday was arrested early Tuesday in Florida, police say.
Kenneth Morgan Stancil III was arrested just after 1 a.m., after he was found sleeping on the beach in Daytona, Goldsboro police said, about 550 miles (885 kilometers) from Goldsboro.
Volusia County Beach Patrol had approached him for violating the city’s ordinance against sleeping on the beach.
He had a knife, police said. He was taken into custody without incident.
The shooting Monday took place on the third floor of a building on campus. The school was placed on lockdown.
“This is not a random situation. It is an isolated situation,” Maj. Tom Effler of the Wayne County Sheriff’s Office said.
The victim was Ron Lane, a longtime employee and the school’s print shop operator, officials said. Stancil, a former student at the college, once worked for Lane.
“This is indeed a sad day for Wayne Community College and this close family and community,” school President Kay Albertson said Monday.
“Our hearts are heavy at the loss of an employee — a valued employee — and we will soon be reaching out to the family.”
She praised the “rapid response from the city, the county, the state and the federal first responders.”
While authorities were clearing out rooms, they deployed tear gas into a restroom someone was in, Effler said. The person inside turned out not to be the suspect.
Figures from fall 2013 show the two-year school with a student population of 3,837, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, with slightly more than half the students part-time.
Crime statistics from the center’s website show no killings, assaults, robberies or motor vehicle thefts between 2011 and 2013. There were three arrests for illegal weapons possession in 2012 and three in 2013.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: Morning News, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



PHOTOS: Areas of central Indiana flooded after overnight storms



Heavy flooding and water rescues Sunday morning



Police arrest driver in motorcycle crash that killed a passenger



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Morgan County residents clean up after flash flooding overtakes homes and creates a muddy mess



Closing arguments to begin Monday morning in Richmond Hill Trial



New Mexico Amber Alert teen found safe in Indianapolis, suspect in custody



Tornado rips through Johnson County; damage repairs underway





 












News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder


National & World News

Third suspect arrested in alleged Panama City gang rape


National & World News

Charleston shooting victims’ names released


National & World News

South Carolina officer charged with murder of unarmed man



 


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice,’ bond set at $1 million


National & World News

North Carolina prison worker accused of having sex with killer, helping him escape


National & World News

Two children lose limbs in separate shark attacks at same North Carolina beach


National & World News

Police: George Zimmerman shot, injured in Florida


News

Confederate flags stolen in Georgia, Delaware



 


National & World News

Police: Son beats mother to death with baseball bat after argument over grades


National & World News

Plane crashes on Atlanta-area interstate; 4 people killed


National & World News

Ten California deputies put on leave after video shows man being beaten






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















