Police, homicide detectives search for suspects in 3 separate shootings | FOX2now.com 
Police, homicide detectives search for suspects in 3 separate shootings | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Police, homicide detectives search for suspects in 3 separate shootings

Posted 6:45 am, May 1, 2015, by Seth Lemon 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS, MO (KTVI)- It has been a violent year for the City of St. Louis. Yesterday’s double-homicide brought the number of victims this year to 54. It’s a problem that’s frustrating residents and police.
That homicide count, according to police, is 10 more than we saw in the city at this very same time last year. This morning, police are still on the hunt for the person responsible for shooting and killing two women early Thursday.
Korie Hodges, 25 and Keerica Bolden, 22,  had been shot multiple times in an apartment in the 4000 block of Natural Bridge near Fairground Park. Two young children were found inside of the apartment, unharmed. Police say there was no sign of forced entry or a struggle which suggests at least one of the victims may have known the killer.
But the violence on the streets didn’t stop once the sun came up.
Not far from that scene a man was shot near on St. Louis Avenue at Vandeventer. That shooting is believed to be connected to another shooting scene just two blocks away on Labadie.
“Heartbreaking doesn’t even begin to get at it. It`s heartbreaking , it`s frustrating it makes me mad and i want to make it stop,” said St. Louis City Police Chief Sam Dotson.
While murder rates across the country are falling, St. Louis is one of the few major cities where the number is steeply rising.

38.627003
-90.199404




Filed in: News 













 






Antenna TV
KTVI’s digital channel 2.2 shows hit movies and classic TV.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

St. Louis tallies 75th homicide overnight, at least four others shot


News

Homicide detectives called to North St. Louis


News

Man shot to death near the intersection of St. Louis and Union


AM Show

Two men shot, killed on Mother’s Day in St. Louis


News

St. Louis police called to homicide on Maffitt



 


News

3 killed, 2 wounded in three separate shootings across St. Louis


News

24-year-old identified as north city murder victim


News

Man and child shot near Goodfellow and I-70


News

Homicide detectives investigate murder-suicide in South St. Louis


News

Man found shot to death in vacant north St. Louis house



 


News

Police investigating two overnight homicides


News

One dead, two wounded in south St. Louis shooting


News

2 dead, 3 injured in St. Louis area shootings






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















