Family frustrated south St. Louis murder suspect not under arrest | FOX2now.com 
Family frustrated south St. Louis murder suspect not under arrest | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Family frustrated south St. Louis murder suspect not under arrest

Posted 6:50 pm, April 3, 2015, by Paul Schankman 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS, MO (KTVI) – The son of one murder victim, who is also the brother of another murder victim, both shot to death in South St. Louis last week, is frustrated that a suspect is not yet in custody— especially since family members have told police they are pretty sure they know who pulled the trigger.
‘Who expects their mother to be murdered in cold blood and left in an alley somewhere, and my sister too,’ said Dan Schaefer Jr., 27.
His mother, Tammie Thurmond, 54, was shot in the head and found left to die in an alley in the Dutchtown neighborhood last Friday afternoon.  She died several hours later.
That same afternoon, a short distance away, Schaefer`s sister, Paige Schaefer, 24, was found shot to death in her home in the 4400 hundred block of Itaska Street. Also inside the home was a family friend, James Lacey, 47, found shot to death. Both victims` bodies were found still sitting in chairs.
A third person in the house, a 21-year-old member of the Schaefers` extended family was shot in the head, but survived.
She was able to call 9-1-1 with information about the shooter, including his nickname.
The man is said to have had a relationship with one of the victims, and was known to them all.
And Dan Schaefer Jr. says they have heard from him.
‘There has been some communications with the family since then that we notified the police about,’ Schaefer said.  ‘He told my little brother `come on over here and I will take care of you too,` so this guy is a loose cannon and he is just running around.’
For the family, not knowing that man`s whereabouts is terrifying.
And not knowing the reason for the murders is mystifying.
‘My mom lived a hard life but she didn`t bother anybody, my sister didn`t bother anybody,’ Schaefer said.
The family member who survived being shot is still hospitalized,  in and out of a medical coma and under heavy guard by police.
A spokesperson for the St. Louis Police Department says the police have not identified a suspect.
‘I want him to get the death penalty,’ Schaefer said.
‘I want him to rot in a prison until they execute him.’



Filed in: News 













 






Have a news tip?
Do you have a story you want FOX 2 to investigate?  E-mail us.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Man killed in North St. Louis at gathering


News

24-year-old identified as north city murder victim


News

Sisters shot and killed in north St. Louis


News

Multiple shootings push murder count to 76 in St. Louis City


News

2 fatally shot in St. Louis home identified



 


News

Man shot to death on Natural Bridge in north St. Louis


News

Police search for gunman in East St. Louis double murder


News

Murder suspect released on bond


News

St. Louis tallies 75th homicide overnight, at least four others shot


News

North St. Louis murder suspects shoot victim in the back inside his home



 


News

Man found shot to death in vacant north St. Louis house


News

Elderly woman found shot to death in Sunset Hills home


News

Accused Ferguson looter found dead two days after being charged






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















