Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine | myfox8.com 


Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine | myfox8.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
12 p.m. News 



FOX8 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














myfox8.com




 
Menu




News


On-Air


Morning News


Sports


You Decide 2016


Lottery


Contests


Events










Weather 




78°
















78°






Low 
64°


High 
85°












Sat





					64° 
 87°
					






Sun





					66° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 88°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine




Posted 10:11 am, June 21, 2015, by 
CNN Wire
 




Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
Reddit
Email
 










 








×


Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine






 






CHARLESTON, S.C. — The site of a horrific mass killing has become a house of worship again.


Hundred filled the pews of historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, for services Sunday morning.


They sang hymns and remembered the nine church members shot to death Wednesday night during bible study.


Two law enforcement officials have said Dylann Roof of Lexington, South Carolina, admitted to shooting and killing the people he’d sat with for Bible study at the historically black church.


Roof, 21, is white, and all the victims were black. He told investigators he did it to start a race war, according to one of the officials.


The church area remained a crime scene, and thus off limits to church members, until Charleston police released it Saturday.


One of the victims was the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney. The Rev. Norvel Goff, presiding elder of Emanuel AME, said he will give the sermon at the Sunday service.


Charleston, nicknamed the Holy City because it has so many churches, will remember the shooting victims in other ways.


Unity chain planned


On Sunday night, a unity chain will be held on the 13,200-foot Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge. Organizers hope to attract enough people to hold hands and stretch from Charleston to the town of Mount Pleasant on the other side of the Cooper River.


“When something this horrendous happens this close to home, you are compelled to do something,” event coordinator Dorsey Fairbairn said on Facebook.


‘Hate’s not in me’


On Friday, Roof appeared at a bond hearing. Families of the victims addressed him and said they forgave him.


That message was echoed by Arthur Hurd, husband of victim Cynthia Hurd. He’s in the Merchant Marine and arrived in Charleston on Saturday.


“This is all surreal, but what I can say to that young man is that in time I will forgive you,” Hurd told WCIV.


“I won’t move past this, but I will forgive you. But I hope for the rest of your life, however long or short that may be, you stop and play that tape over and over and over again in your head and see the sheer terror and pain you put purely innocent people through. …”


“I would love to hate you but hate’s not in me. If I hate you I’m no better than you.”


People angry about the killings took to the streets Saturday.


In Charleston, hundreds joined the March for Black Lives.


The group began the march in total silence, walking to Emanuel AME Church from a nearby park, and stopped outside the church to lay flowers at the makeshift memorial.


Once marchers passed the church, the group filled Charleston’s iconic King Street, usually packed with tourists this time of year. Many carried signs of support for the victims of the Charleston shooting and the black community: “STILL WE RISE,” “Hand in Hand,” “Do the right thing,” “Black Lives Matter.”


The march ended with a rally outside the historic Daughters of the Confederacy building.


‘Take it down’


“That terrorist did not win. He wanted to invoke terror and fear in our community, but we are not for that,” an organizer said to the crowd. “We are standing up together, arm in arm. … We will not bow down, but we will stand up.”


Despite the sweltering heat, a large crowd filled the front grounds of the South Carolina Capitol in Columbia calling for the Confederate flag to be removed.


“Take it down, take it down,” chanted the crowd, filled with people of all races and ages holding signs.


One woman’s sign said, “Love breeds love, hate breeds hate.” Another man’s sign said, “Remove my ancestors sign.”


Organizers of the event, the South Carolina Progressive Network, estimated between 1,500 and 1,700 people attended.


Racist website


Investigators are looking at a website featuring a racist manifesto that mentions Charleston as the “historic” target of an attack and displays images of Roof.


The 2,000-word text explains the writer’s philosophy of white superiority, saying the Trayvon Martin case “truly awakened me” and that “I chose Charleston because it is most historic city in my state, and at one time had the highest ratio of blacks to Whites in the country.”


Motive has become the biggest question as state and federal investigators work on the case — and statements and photos on the website match what investigators have determined so far.


Martin’s parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, addressed the gunman’s assertion. Their son was killed by in 2012 by a neighborhood watch volunteer who was acquitted.


“The Trayvon Martin movement was not created to incite hate or further racial divide, but rather birthed to raise awareness to the social injustices that exist across America with regards to senseless gun violence against our young black and brown boys; the movement also focuses on the growing disparities in the lack of prosecution of the actual perpetrators,” they said in a statement.




32.776475


-79.931051










Trademark and Copyright 2015 
Cable News Network
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
News
 
Topics:
 
South Carolina church shooting
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














You Decide 2016


FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage
















 




 






Popular








After shooting, Virginia gunman details grievances in ‘suicide note’ faxed to ABC News








Va. shooter posted tweets, video of shooting on social media








Va. reporter, photographer killed on-air during live news interview, shooter kills himself








Iowa teachers sing ‘One Day More’ before students return to school — and it’s awesome
















 






Latest News








Middle school teacher welcomes students back to magical Harry Potter-themed classroom








Greesnsboro police searching for man who exposed himself in front of children at Lawndale Target








Father allegedly robs bank to pay for daughter’s chemotherapy








Calif. man bitten while taking selfie with rattlesnake












 


























News




Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter






News




Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims






News




Panthers donate $100k to families of victims in SC church shooting that killed nine






News




Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’






News




Dylann Roof faces hate crime charges in Charleston shooting








 






News




Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm






News




Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting






News




New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded






News




How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine






News




Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community








 






News




CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC






News




Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine






News




Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


Weather iPhone App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


Pinterest


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 54,924 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com




















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































