‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral on Facebook | myfox8.com 


‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral on Facebook | myfox8.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
12 p.m. News 



FOX8 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














myfox8.com




 
Menu




News


On-Air


Morning News


Sports


You Decide 2016


Lottery


Contests


Events










Weather 




78°
















78°






Low 
64°


High 
85°












Sat





					64° 
 87°
					






Sun





					66° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 88°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















‘I love you Dylann’ Gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect goes viral on Facebook




Posted 7:08 am, June 19, 2015, by 
Web Staff
 




Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
Reddit
Email
 












HENRICO COUNTY, Va. — A Virginia gospel musician’s message to Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof is going viral on Facebook.


Years ago musician Marcus Stanley was shot eight times at point-blank range by a gang member, 
according to WTVR
. Stanley said he was left there to die.


He said his own story of survival is a testament to what he knows God can do.


Stanley told WTVR he believes God will bring healing to the families who lost loved ones in the Charleston shooting.


“Words cannot express how painful it is,” Stanley said.  “My heart goes out to the families for the terrible act against their loved ones.”


Stanley said he decided to post a prayer on Roof’s Facebook page in hopes it would reach the suspected killer.


In the post, Stanley encouraged the suspected shooter to try to make amends with God for his actions.


Give your heart to Jesus and confess your sins with a heart of forgiveness. He is the only one that can save your soul and forgive you for the terrible acts you’ve done. I love you Dylan, even in the midst of darkness and pain you’ve caused.


Marcus Stanley’s posts message on Dylan Roof’s Facebook page.


Stanley told WTVR he knew many people wouldn’t understand his message to Roof but decided to post it anyway.


“Instead of attacking, I said let me reach out to him in love. He still has to face the consequences of the law and I’m not denying that, but what I was trying to do was save his soul,” Stanley said.


He said his near-death experience showed him the power of forgiveness.


“I don’t expect the people affected by this tragedy to act like everything’s perfect. It’s a process,” Stanley said.


“There will be tears and there will be laughs and good memories. It’s a healing process. It took me six years to forgive the shooter who shot me.”


He said he hopes the Charleston community will hold to its faith and cling to each other with love.




37.505933


-77.332443










Filed in:
 
News
 
Topics:
 
Charleston
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Women Making a Difference


Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.
















 




 






Popular








After shooting, Virginia gunman details grievances in ‘suicide note’ faxed to ABC News








Va. shooter posted tweets, video of shooting on social media








Va. reporter, photographer killed on-air during live news interview, shooter kills himself








Iowa teachers sing ‘One Day More’ before students return to school — and it’s awesome
















 






Latest News








Middle school teacher welcomes students back to magical Harry Potter-themed classroom








Greesnsboro police searching for man who exposed himself in front of children at Lawndale Target








Father allegedly robs bank to pay for daughter’s chemotherapy








Calif. man bitten while taking selfie with rattlesnake












 


























News




Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter






News




Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm






News




Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’






News




New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded






News




Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect








 






News




Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community






News




Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting






News




CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC






News




Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine






News




Wedding canceled, sister of accused Charleston shooter asks for donations








 






News




Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’






News




Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened






News




Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


Weather iPhone App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


Pinterest


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 54,924 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com




















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































