2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody | FOX2now.com 
2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody

Posted 10:44 am, May 10, 2015, by CNN Wires, Updated at 12:14pm, May 10, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 



HATTIESBURG, MS — Two police officers were shot dead in Mississippi late Saturday. It was the first time in 30 years that an officer was killed in the line of duty in Hattiesburg, the mayor said.
Officers Benjamin J. Deen, 34, and Liquori Tate, 24, were making a traffic stop when they were shot, Mayor Johnny DuPree said.
They were taken to hospital, but did not survive.
“The men and women who go out every day to protect us, the men and women who go out every day to make sure that we are safe, were turned on tonight,” DuPree said.
Police have apprehended two suspects, Marvin Banks and Curtis Banks, he said.
After the shooting, the suspects stole a police vehicle, which they used to flee. It was later found abandoned, according to CNN affiliate WDAM. The two men both have criminal records.
Police also took a woman into custody who was with the suspects at the time of the shooting, WDAM reported. They have not said whether she was involved.
Deen had been named the city’s officer of the year in 2012, according to Jackson newspaper The Clarion-Ledger. Tate had recently graduated from the police academy.
Deen leaves behind a wife and two children. Tate was not married and had no children, Mayor DuPree said.
After visiting the crime scene, the mayor went to the hospital, where he tended to family members until early Sunday.
“You have to search for words you say to family members how much we love them; we are here to support them,” he said. The city is making grief counselors available to the slain men’s fellow officers.
DuPree vowed that the perpetrators of the attack would face justice.
Police in Oxford, Mississippi, sent out condolences in a tweet.
“Both Hattiesburg Police Officers have died. Terrible. Prayers to the entire community and families,” it read.
TM & © 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

31.327119
-89.290339




Filed in: News Topics: fatal shooting, Hattiesburg, mississippi, police officers shot 













 






Have a news tip?
Do you have a story you want FOX 2 to investigate?  E-mail us.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

4 charged in killings of Hattiesburg, Mississippi, policemen to appear in court


News

Slain police: Separated by thousands of miles, united by common dangers


News

Cameras roll while police actions go wrong — and right


News

One dead, two wounded in south St. Louis shooting


News

Mohammed cartoon event investigation continues



 


Trending

Dashcam video shows Arizona officer intentionally running over suspect


News

Man identified in Alton officer-involved shooting


News

Man killed in North St. Louis at gathering


News

3 killed, 2 wounded in three separate shootings across St. Louis


News

Family of woman shot by police disputes their story



 


News

Two women found shot to death in North St. Louis


News

Police seek third person in Usaamah Rahim’s Boston terror plot


News

Dallas police HQ attack: Suspect shot after standoff






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















