Police Seek Mother’s Day Kidnapping Suspect | FOX40 
Police Seek Mother’s Day Kidnapping Suspect | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police Capture Mother’s Day Kidnapping Suspect

Posted 3:22 PM, May 15, 2015, by Kay Recede 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 





STOCKTON-
UPDATE: 5:30 p.m. Andeola has been captured by Tracy Police, according to the Stockton Police Department. He will be booked into San Joaquin County Jail.
—
The Stockton Police Department said they have identified the man they believe stole a silver Honda Civic with a little boy inside on Mother’s Day.
John Manual Andeola, 47, is wanted for kidnapping, child endangerment and stealing a vehicle. Investigators released the information Friday morning, less than a week after the alleged carjacking took place.
John Manual Andeola (Courtesy: Stockton Police Department)
“So right now, we’re asking for the community’s help. If they see the suspect they need to call 911 immediately,” Officer Joe Silva, a Spokesman with the Stockton Police Department said.
The boy’s mother told FOX40 off-camera, “My kids are traumatized,” and says since Sunday they’ve been by her side because they’re afraid.
She explained that on Sunday afternoon she was getting ready to drive away when a man jumped in the driver’s seat instead. She and her family were screaming for help as police claimed, Andeola sped off with the 4-year-old in the back seat near East Lindsay and E Streets. The mother added, her neighbor spotted the man trying to break into his car. He scared him off and he hid behind a nearby fence.
Before the man could get away the brave boy jumped out before the Honda Civic could turn the corner. The mother said the boy explained it to her this way, “‘Because Mommy, I don’t know the people. If I don’t jump out I’m lost.” She added, “I would never leave my kids in the car. That’s common sense.”
Three days later, Stockton officers get their big break when they find the stolen Civic on Sierra Nevada and Fremont Streets. 35-year-old Tony Ramirez was arrested for stolen vehicle and possession of stolen property charges but it wasn’t over.
“Investigators still don’t know exactly who the original kidnapper gave the vehicle to but the big break during the middle of the week was locating that vehicle,” Officer Silva explained.
On Friday, police identify who they believe kidnapped the 4-year-old, “He’s also on probation for auto theft,” Silva explained.
Andeola, a man who has been in trouble before for alleged stolen auto theft charges, now facing kidnapping, child endangerment and stealing a vehicle charges.
The Stockton mom did not say much about the latest break in the case. She’s just hoping to keep her kids safe.
If you have seen Andeola, please contact the Stockton Police Department or Crimestoppers: (209) 946-0600. They are offering rewards of up to $10,000.



Filed in: Local News Topics: Stockton 













 






Like FOX40 on Facebook!
Join the conversation by commenting on the FOX40News Facebook page







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












Local News

Stockton Police Mourn Loss of K9; Review Department Policies


Local News

Carjacked Civic Found in Stockton


Local News

POLICE: Suspects Pull Man into Hotel Room, Steal Shoes, Car


Local News

UPDATE: Brothers Accused of Stabbing Man to Death in Stockton


Local News

City Operated Cameras Didn’t Record Fatal Firetruck Crash in Stockton



 


Local News

Man Robbed at Gunpoint After Arranging Meet-Up with Woman He Met Online


Local News

Suspect Killed in Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton


Local News

Shooting in Stockton Leaves One Man Dead


Local News

Fallen K9 Nitro Remembered, Honored During Memorial Service


Local News

POLICE: Stockton K9 Dies on Duty After Air Conditioner in Vehicle Fails



 


Local News

Stockton Employees Remain Vigilant in Wake of Violence


Local News

National U.S. Marshal Led Initiative Nets 98 Stockton Fugitives


Local News

Stockton Police Report Spike in Armed Robberies






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















