<<<<<<< HEAD
Titusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victimsTitusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victims
SUBSCRIBE NOW
to get full access
Home
News
Sports
Space
Life
Entertainment
Travel
Opinions
Obituaries
Insider
USA TODAY
Media
More
Home
News
Sports
Space
Life
Entertainment
Travel
Opinions
Obituaries
Insider
USA TODAY
Media
Follow
Search
Firefly
Hi 
Already a subscriber? 
Log in
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Subscribe Now
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.
Manage your account settings.
My Account
View the E-Newspaper
Manage your Newsletters
View your Insider deals and more
Member ID Card
Log Out
Get the news
Log In or Subscribe to skip
Already a subscriber?
Log in
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Subscribe Now
Already a subscriber, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.

                            289
                        

                            4
                        
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Facebook
Email
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Titusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victims
A Titusville church will hold a special prayer vigil tonight for the victims of an overnight church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina.
Post to Facebook
Titusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victims  A Titusville church will hold a special prayer vigil tonight for the victims of an overnight church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina.   Check out this story on floridatoday.com: http://on.flatoday.com/1Lhdxwi

                    {#
                    

                    #}
                
Cancel
Send
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

                            2
                        
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the 
Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Subscribe Today
Log In
Subscribed, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.
Titusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victims
 J.D. Gallop
, FLORIDA TODAY 
1 p.m. EDT June 18, 2015

    Chief Gregory Mullen emphasized his department's commitment to catching the man suspected of killing nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston. Police confirm they currently do not know where the suspect is.
    
WLTX TV
Worshippers embrace following a group prayer across the street from the scene of a shooting at Emanuel AME Church, Wednesday, June 17, 2015, in Charleston, S.C.
(Photo: David Goldman, AP)
Faith leaders from several Space Coast denominations will hold a special prayer vigil for the victims of an 
overnight church shooting
 that left nine people – including a state senator and church pastor – dead.
The vigil comes after Dylan Storm Roof, 21, allegedly carried out the attack at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, one of the oldest African-American congregations in the South. Police have labeled the targeted shooting a hate crime.
Glenn Dames, pastor of St. James AME Church in Titusville, knew pastor and South Carolina State Senator Clementa Pinckney, who was killed in the shooting.
Pinckney, 41, was listed among nine victims shot and killed by the gunman during the Wednesday night bible study.
FLORIDA TODAY
9 dead in shooting at black church in Charleston, S.C.
"This has been a difficult night for us…I knew (Pinckney)," Dames told FLORIDA TODAY. "I've been to Emanuel. As a pastor, I know the pain of seeing something like this happen. We believe that in the end, love will conquer hate as difficult as it is to wrap our heads around that right now."
The prayer vigil will take place at 7 p.m. tonight at St. James AME Church, 625 Dummitt Ave. in Titusville. The congregation has in the past hosted several community prayer sessions and talks over issues ranging from the 2012 controversial shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in neighboring Sanford to the recent spate of protests over police tactics.
"In times like these, we need an anchor…and that Rock is Jesus," he said between fielding calls from other pastors and church members.
Other pastors were stunned by the killings and called for the faith community to continue building inroads together.
"My God, when is this going to end," asked Father Rob Goodridge of St. Gabriel Episcopal Church in Titsuville. "The only way any of this will be resolved is if we develop relationships with each other. I just don't understand it. There's an uptick of this kind of (violence) not just in our country but around the world. But when you look at things and if it's not good, it's not from God. It's from something else," he said, adding that more prayer is needed.
Read or Share this story: http://on.flatoday.com/1Lhdxwi
=======
Pastors expect heightened security after shooting at South Carolina church | Fox 59 
Pastors expect heightened security after shooting at South Carolina church | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Pastors expect heightened security after shooting at South Carolina church

Posted 5:49 PM, June 19, 2015, by Liz Gelardi, Updated at 05:57pm, June 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 





INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (June 19, 2015) – Pastors are thinking twice about security after a recent shooting inside a South Carolina Church left nine people dead. Local pastors in Indianapolis say they expect to have a heightened sense of awareness going into their Sunday services.
“I think it’s devastating for parishioners, for congregants to go to church and not feel safe,” said Pastor Wayne Moore with Olivet Baptist Church.
Rev. Carey A. Grady knew one of the victims, Rev. Clementa Pinckney, and was upset to hear about the senseless act of violence that took his life. Rev. Grady spent fives years at Bethel AME Church in downtown Indianapolis. He called the tragedy a wake up call for everyone. Despite the shooting Rev. Grady doesn’t think people should bring guns to church.
“It’s one of the few places you can go to and no one ever thinks people are going to come on the property with a gun,” said Rev. Grady.
Rev. Charles Harrison at Barnes United Methodist Church said he neither encourages or discourages people from bringing guns to church.
“We have churches that have installed security cameras that are recording information, we have churches that have added doorkeepers, ushers, some have armed security as well to keep the people safe. It just depends on each church, some churches don’t have the capacity,” said Pastor James Jackson with Fervent Prayer Church.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Widow shocked to see husband’s death featured on reality show



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle







 


Latest News



Morgan County residents clean up after flash flooding overtakes homes and creates a muddy mess



Closing arguments to begin Monday morning in Richmond Hill Trial



New Mexico Amber Alert teen found safe in Indianapolis, suspect in custody



Tornado rips through Johnson County; damage repairs underway





 












National & World News

Nine people killed at South Carolina church; shooting investigated as hate crime


Crimetracker News

Summer crime prevention efforts ramp up


National & World News

Charleston shooting victims’ names released


News

Charleston church shooting suspect, Dylann Storm Roof, arrested in North Carolina


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice,’ bond set at $1 million



 


National & World News

Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder


News

Worshippers return to Charleston’s Emanuel AME on Sunday


National & World News

WATCH: President Obama sings ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


National & World News

Charleston: Forgiveness and frustration after first church service since massacre


National & World News

Confederate flag lowered from South Carolina Capitol



 


News NewsPoint

Indy church members pray for victims in Charleston church shooting


National & World News

FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Storm Roof


National & World News

People fuming over Va. church sign connecting Satan with equal rights






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















>>>>>>> origin/master
