Tamir Rice report: No proof police officer shouted warning before shooting | FOX2now.com 
Tamir Rice report: No proof police officer shouted warning before shooting | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Tamir Rice report: No proof police officer shouted warning before shooting

Posted 7:55 am, June 15, 2015, by CNN Wires 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 




 



×
Tamir Rice report: No proof police officer shouted warning before shooting


 


The Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Department on Saturday released an investigation report in the Cleveland police shooting of 12-year-old Tamir Rice. While offering no opinion whether two officers should be prosecuted, the report reveals new detail about the shooting.
A city police officer shot and killed Rice on November 22. A citizen had called the 911 center to report a “guy with a pistol” outside a city recreation center, but the responding officers weren’t told the caller said the gun might be “fake” and the guy might be a juvenile. Rice actually had a pellet gun.
Will the officer and his partner be charged? On Thursday a judge said he thought there was probable cause, but his opinion is not binding. A grand jury will study this investigation report and decide whether to indict.
Here are some of the report’s major takeaways:
It’s unclear whether officer shouted warnings before shooting
The police department has said Officer Timothy Loehmann “shouted verbal commands” from inside his patrol car before firing at Rice, but the report says witness interviews don’t back up that statement. Loehmann and his partner, Frank Garmback, didn’t talk to the sheriff’s office investigators. The patrol car didn’t have a dashboard camera and security video cameras at the recreation center don’t have audio. One woman who lives nearby said she heard two popping sounds, then shouting, then a third popping sound. Loehmann only fired two shots, however.
Police didn’t immediately render first aid to Rice
An FBI agent happened to be in the area following up a bank robbery, heard about the incident and arrived about three minutes after the shooting. He found Rice lying on the ground. The two officers appeared upset and shell-shocked, he said, wanting to help Rice but not knowing what to do. The agent, a national registered paramedic who’d served in the military, tried to stop the bleeding and got assistance from an officer when he asked for it. Janell Rutherford, supervisor for patrols in that area, said patrol cars were not equipped with first-aid kits and officers had no first-aid training beyond basic CPR.
All the officers thought Rice was older than 12
The initial call to 911 described a male with a gun at the recreation center, who might have been a juvenile. Officers at the scene said they thought Rice was 16-20 and the FBI agent said he first thought Rice was “eighteen-ish,” based on his size. Rice was 5 feet 7 and weighed 195 pounds, according to the autopsy. The agent said he heard Rice’s sister screaming that he was only 12 years old. The agent said, “I remember thinking to myself, I’m like, ‘There’s no way.’ And I looked at his face, I’m like, ‘Yeah.’ He’s got a young-looking face. …”
The air pistol looked very real, police said
Rice traded a cell phone to a friend for the pistol. The friend told investigators he’d taken the air pistol apart and couldn’t refasten the orange tip that distinguishes air pistols from real ones. The gun is listed as a “replica firearm,” a Colt 1911 target pistol that’s 11.25 inches long. One officer said it looked “a thousand percent real.”
Rice talked to the FBI agent before dying
“I asked him his name which he replied to me — told me, and then he said that he was shot and he made a reference to his, uh, regarding like a gun or a question like, ‘Where’s my gun?’ … I can’t remember exactly what it was. I just remembered that he made reference to a firearm.”
Loehmann talked to the FBI agent
Though he didn’t talk to Cuyahoga County investigators, Loehmann talked briefly to the FBI agent while he sat in a patrol car nursing an ankle injured during the shooting at the rec center. Loehmann said, “He [Rice] had a gun and he reached for it,” according to the agent.
Rice was shot at close range
Loehmann fired from a distance of 4.5 to 7 feet from Rice. The patrol car rolled onto the grass at the Cudell Recreation Center and Loehmann exited the vehicle and fired twice within two seconds.
Cleveland police were investigating the shooting, but amid calls for an independent investigation, the Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Department was brought in. Many of the interviews with witnesses were conducted in March, more than three months after Rice was killed.
By Ralph Ellis and Melissa Gray



Filed in: News 













 






STL Moms!
A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Tamir Rice death investigation complete


News

Cleveland community leaders to ask judge for murder charges in Tamir Rice case


News

171 days after Tamir Rice shooting, sheriff says probe almost done


News

Judge rules there’s evidence to charge Cleveland officers in Tamir Rice shooting


News

Officer who killed Walter Scott fired; protesters demand justice



 


News

No charges for Wisconsin police officer in shooting death of biracial teen


News

Will police officer face charges over killing of Tony Robinson in Wisconsin?


News

Freddie Gray death: Protest to grow as union compares it to ‘lynch mob’


News

South Carolina shooting: Walter Scott didn’t grab Taser, video witness says


News

Circuit Attorney: Officer won’t face charges in shooting death of VonDerrit Myers



 


News

Officer charged with murder after shooting black man in back: What we know


News

Sources: Baltimore police investigation doesn’t support some of prosecution’s charge


News

Walter Scott’s family plans burial as questions swirl in his death






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















