Police seek man in connection with shooting that paralyzed teenager | Fox 59 
Police seek man in connection with shooting that paralyzed teenager | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police seek man in connection with shooting that paralyzed teenager

Posted 9:48 AM, June 3, 2015, by Matt Adams - Web Producer, Zach Myers and Kylee Wierks - Web Producer, Updated at 08:34pm, June 16, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 















UPDATE: On Tuesday, June 16, police released a still image of a suspect they believe may have knowledge of the shooting that injured Kluth. The image, taken from video surveillance footage, was captured moments after the shooting had occurred.






Investigators urge anyone with information to call Crime Stoppers of Central Indiana at (317) 262-TIPS (8477). Callers may also text “INDYCS” plus tip information to 274637 (CRIMES). All information shared via Crime Stoppers of Central Indiana is considered anonymous.









INDIANAPOLIS (June 3, 2015) – Indianapolis Metropolitan police are hoping a teenage shooting victim will be able to tell them who put him in the hospital.
The call came in just before 9:30 a.m. at 3300 N. Meridian St.  A man told police he found his 18-year-old roommate, Dionte Kruth, suffering from a gunshot wound to the neck.  Kruth was rushed to IU Health Methodist Hospital in critical condition.
“What we believe is this is not a random act,” said IMPD Sgt. Kendale Adams.  “We believe the victim likely knew the shooter.  There’s no forced entry to the apartment.”
By Wednesday afternoon, Kruth’s condition was listed as critical but stable.  Detectives were hoping Kruth would be able to tell them who shot him as soon as he was able.
Detectives also have Kruth’s criminal history to look for known associates or known enemies.  Police records show Kruth has several prior arrests involving drugs and guns.  In March this year, he was one of six people arrested when IMPD raided a home on the northwest side and seized drugs, multiple weapons and counterfeit money.
Bambi Gonzales, who lives next door to the Magnolias Apartments said she was not surprised when she heard that Kruth had been shot.  She believes Kruth and others were running a drug operation out of the apartment.
“It’s bound to happen because there’s always money involved and there’s always a lot of money, or somebody’s geeked out.”
Anyone with information is urged to call IMPD Aggravated Assault detectives at (317) 327-3733 or Crime Stoppers of Indiana at (317) 262-TIPS (8477).



Filed in: Crimetracker, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



PHOTOS: Areas of central Indiana flooded after overnight storms



Heavy flooding and water rescues Sunday morning



Police arrest driver in motorcycle crash that killed a passenger



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Morgan County residents clean up after flash flooding overtakes homes and creates a muddy mess



Closing arguments to begin Monday morning in Richmond Hill Trial



New Mexico Amber Alert teen found safe in Indianapolis, suspect in custody



Tornado rips through Johnson County; damage repairs underway





 












Crimetracker News

Police seek men in connection with June homicide


News

Police investigating fatal shooting of 57-year-old man on the near east side


Crimetracker News

Hail of gunfire leaves one man dead, another wounded, and cars damaged


Crimetracker

Police investigating two shootings that leave one man dead on city’s westside


Crimetracker News

Man fatally shot after illegal dice game on near north side of Indianapolis



 


News

One man dead, one in serious condition after two separate shootings on far east side


News

Police investigating after ‘badly decomposed’ body found on northeast side


Crimetracker News

Man wanted for questioning in several near north side robberies


Crimetracker News

Indy police still searching for ‘well-dressed thief’ wanted in several burglaries


Crimetracker

UPDATE: Man killed, another transported to hospital after shootings on near east side



 


Crimetracker News

Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home


Crimetracker News

Police seek suspects after multiple trailer thefts around central Indiana


Crimetracker News

Police identify well-dressed criminal as search continues






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















