Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody | fox13now.com 
Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: Sports Page 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

81°







81°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					67°  91°
					


Tue


					66°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Police chase ends with truck in canal, suspects in custody

Posted 8:16 am, April 9, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and Scott McKane, Updated at 03:07pm, April 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





WEST VALLEY CITY, Utah – Two 21-year-old suspects are in custody after a police chase that ended with a truck in the water and one of the suspects without her shoes. 
Authorities said they tried to pull over a truck near 2500 W. and 2700 S. but it sped off.
Police said the Nissan Titan was a rental car that was reported stolen.
Officers chased the truck but stopped the pursuit for safety reasons.
However, another police unit happened to be nearby and saw the truck pull into a mobile home park.
Police said they surrounded the single entrance neighborhood and said the suspects did everything they could to escape.
“Right back here is a fence but it’s not fenced into a parking lot, it’s got a gate there it actually goes into a canal,” West Valley City Police Lt. Lamont Cox said. “I’m pretty sure he didn’t know what was on the other side so they broke through the gate and into the canal and bailed out of the truck.”
Officers caught the driver, Darren Terry, and found a woman’s purse and shoes near the canal.
They called in a K9 unit and found the woman, Angelica Chavez, who was riding in the passenger seat.


40.716098
-111.958065









Filed in: News Topics: crime, west valley city 













 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City


News

Woman arrested for DUI after leading police on chase through West Valley City


News

Police chase ends with officer hospitalized, suspect behind bars


News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests


News

Family of woman killed in crash while crossing street in West Valley City speaks



 


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes


News

West Valley City assault, robbery suspect escapes police chase


News

Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera


News

Suspect leads police on chase through airport, golf course before arrest


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City



 


News

West Valley City officers searching for pawn shop burglary suspects caught on camera


News

Suspect in custody after Centerville man checking on his chickens finds, tackles fugitive


News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,102 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















