Officer shows ‘great restraint’ not shooting charging suspect, chief says | fox13now.com 
Officer shows ‘great restraint’ not shooting charging suspect, chief says | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: Sports Page 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

81°







81°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					67°  91°
					


Tue


					66°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Officer shows ‘great restraint’ not shooting charging suspect, chief says

Posted 3:22 pm, April 19, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 






By Eliott C. McLaughlin

CNN


(CNN) — Police shootings stoke controversy as the public dissects the details of each incident and decides whether the use of force was unwarranted or if the officer acted in self-defense in the face of a truly dangerous criminal.
This isn’t one of those cases.
On Thursday, Officer Jesse Kidder could have opened fire on a man in New Richmond, Ohio, and likely would never have heard a breath of the protest that followed the shootings of Eric Harris and Walter Scott.
What might have been a “suicide by cop” ended in the suspect’s arrest and booking, thanks to what Kidder’s colleagues say was his “great restraint.”
If there were a checklist for when it’s OK to shoot a suspect, Kidder could have ticked most of the boxes.
Double homicide suspect, check.
Possibly armed, check.
Verbally threatening police, check.
Refusing to remove hands from pockets, check.
Charging at an officer, check.
“Law enforcement officers all across the nation deal with split-second decisions that mean life or death. I wanted to be absolutely sure before I used deadly force,” Kidder told CNN affiliate WLWT.
In the incident, caught on Kidder’s body camera, the officer gets out of his car, his gun trained on a suspect who had allegedly killed his fiancee and best friend before leading police on a multicounty chase through Kentucky and Ohio.
The officer’s body camera — which Kidder’s family bought for him after the Michael Brown shooting in Ferguson, Missouri — captured the suspect rushing toward Kidder, unfazed by the officer’s handgun. Dispatchers had told Kidder the suspect might have a gun under his car seat and might attempt to commit “suicide by cop,” WLWT reported.
“I jumped out, and he’s running toward me. I had my firearm already drawn on him, and I tell him to put his hands up in the air, and he was screaming, ‘Shoot me! Shoot me!'” Kidder said.
Kidder backs away from the suspect, who puts one hand in his jacket pocket, then another. Still, the officer declines to pull the trigger.
“My eyes are watching that hand right now, nothing else,” Kidder said.
Kidder yells, “Get your hands out of your pocket now!”
The suspect continues to advance, walking swiftly, hands still obscured.
“I was trying to open a dialogue with him. ‘I don’t want to shoot you; just get on the ground.’ But he wasn’t having it. He kept repeating, ‘Shoot me!’ At one point, he said, ‘Shoot me, or I’ll shoot you,'” the officer said.
Kidder keeps his composure, even when the suspect charges to within a few feet, forcing Kidder to tumble backward to the ground, his upended feet coming into the body camera’s view.
As Kidder gets up, backup arrives and the suspect surrenders, turning around and lying on his face in the street, his arms extended from his body.
Sgt. Les Smith, who has been with the New Richmond police for 33 years, told CNN that even though Kidder is green — he’s been with the department for only about a year — he’s an excellent officer.
The former Marine, who served two tours of duty before joining the force, works as a resource officer for a New Richmond school, and his $400 body camera comes in handy when issues arise there, Smith told CNN.
The video demonstrates that if Kidder had felt compelled to shoot the suspect, he would’ve been justified, Police Chief Randy Harvey told WLWT, adding that he hopes to find funding to outfit all of his officers with body cameras.
“For him to make the judgment call that he did shows great restraint and maturity,” the chief said.


CNN’s Joe Sutton contributed to this report.


The-CNN-Wire
™ & © 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: body camera, police encounter, police violence 








			2 comments		




 

bob

That’s also a good way to become a dead officer.  I don’t recommend it.




							April 19, 2015 at 10:17 pm						








 

Bob

Should have shot him.  That way we wouldn’t have to pay for that POS to be locked up for the rest of his life.




							April 20, 2015 at 7:34 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody


News

Video released of deadly shooting in Tulsa; police say deputy accidentally used firearm


News

Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.


News

LAPD chief concerned if officer’s fatal shooting of unarmed man was ‘justified’


News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video



 


News

Suspect in New Orleans cop killing had access to guns in patrol car, police say


News

Suspect in NYPD cop shooting faces attempted murder charges


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan


News

SLC police: officer shoots knife-wielding man after responding to woman’s screams


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City



 


News

Police ID suspect fatally shot in alleged Orem carjacking; shooter not identified


News

Neighbor who dialed 911 speaks after suspect fatally shot by police responding to child abuse call


News

Washington, D.C., shootings: Wild chase from Census Bureau to H Street






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,102 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















