Homicide suspect had standoff with Greensboro police | myfox8.com 
Homicide suspect had standoff with Greensboro police | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Homicide suspect had standoff with Greensboro police

Posted 4:58 pm, May 24, 2015, by Web Staff and Greensboro News & Record, Updated at 05:06pm, May 24, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





GREENSBORO, N.C. — One of two men accused in the killing of a man Friday in Chesnee, S.C., had a standoff with police, according to the N.C. Department of Justice.
Jason Andrew Cash, 24, of Spartanburg, S.C., and Steven Richard Lewis Jr., 29, of Greensboro.
Steven Richard Lewis Jr., 29, of Greensboro, and Jason Andrew Cash Jr., 24, of Inman, S.C., were arrested Saturday morning in Greensboro.
The suspects are accused in the shooting death of 40-year-old Carey Michael Mauldin.
When police arrived at Lewis’ home at 5714 Old Randleman Road, Cash ran into the woods and Steven Lewis refused to come to the door, according to authorities.
Officials said Cash was apprehended a short distance away, but Lewis remained inside the house for several hours.
Lewis eventually gave up, after pleas for his surrender by police, family and friends, according to the N.C. Department of Justice.
Both men are in the Guilford County jail without bail and had their first court appearances earlier today, according to online jail records.
Cash and Lewis are charged with murder and attempted murder, according to Lt. Kevin Bobo of the Spartanburg County Sheriff’s Office.
The coroner’s office said Carey Mauldin was pronounced dead in his home near Chesnee at about 7:45 a.m. Friday, according to The Greensboro News & Record.
An autopsy showed he died from shots in the abdomen. The office declined to detail how many bullets hit Mauldin. Bobo said Mauldin’s girlfriend was also shot.
Neighbors said the girlfriend’s wrists were bound and she was bleeding badly when she ran to their home for help.

36.072635
-79.791975




Filed in: News Topics: standoff 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

South Carolina homicide suspects arrested in Greensboro


News

Increased security for Yo Gotti show in Greensboro Saturday


News

Two fast food restaurants robbed at gunpoint in Greensboro


News

Fugitive facing 40 charges surrenders after standoff with Asheboro police


News

Police identify suspect in officer-involved shooting at NC McDonald’s



 


News

Victim of armed robbery found tied up in Greensboro home


News

Severe burns killed Greensboro man in November


News

Greensboro teen arrested, accused of using social media to urge a riot


News

Greensboro police seeking two suspects in Wendy’s armed robbery


News

Missing Winston-Salem man located, safe



 


News

Wendy’s in High Point robbed at gunpoint; police searching for suspects


News

Winston-Salem man shot, robbed during home invasion


News

Warrant issued for man accused of stabbing two people in Greensboro






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















