Police ID suspect fatally shot in alleged Orem carjacking; shooter not identified | fox13now.com 
Police ID suspect fatally shot in alleged Orem carjacking; shooter not identified | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Police ID suspect fatally shot in alleged Orem carjacking; shooter not identified

Posted 3:51 pm, May 4, 2015, by Tiffany DeMasters and Mark Green, Updated at 09:25pm, May 4, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





OREM, Utah — Orem police has identified a man fatally shot by a man with a concealed carry permit Saturday after the suspect allegedly attempted to carjack a woman in a Maceys parking lot.
On Monday afternoon Lt. Craig Martinez, spokesman for Orem police, said the suspected carjacker was Taulagi Matafeo, 26, of Springville. Martinez said the names of the shooter or the woman who was being allegedly carjacked will not be released.


The suspect shot and killed by a civilian in an Orem parking lot during an attempted car jacking is Taulagi Matafeo, 26, of Springville.
— Robert Boyd (@Robertboydfox13) May 4, 2015



Police are not releasing the name of the shooter or the woman who was being car jacked.
— Robert Boyd (@Robertboydfox13) May 4, 2015

On Saturday Matafeo reportedly attempted to carjack the woman in a Mercedes and that’s when a shopper, only identified as a 31-year-old male, confronted the suspect.
At about 11:19 a.m. the shooter called 911 claiming that a man had just tried to steal a woman’s car, that the caller was a concealed carry holder and had taken the suspect by gunpoint, according to a press release from Orem police.
Listen to 911 call here: 

The release states Matafeo got out of the woman’s and put his hands up, however he eventually lunged at the caller and tried to grab the gun. That’s when the caller shot the suspect one time in the chest.
Lt. Craig Martinez with Orem police speaks to media about weekend carjacking/shooting. Doug Flagler/FOX 13 News
Matafeo suffered a single gunshot wound and was transported to Utah Valley Hospital, where he died from his injuries.
While it is early on in the investigation, police say, it is unlikely that the shooter will face charges stemming from this incident.
Prior to the shooting, police responded to a report of a fight at Summit Ridge Apartment Complex in the area of 1700 South and 400 East at about 10:44 a.m. When the first officer arrived, the release states, he spoke with a woman in the parking lot. She was yelling that her friend had just been assaulted and that the person responsible was leaving in a blue Acura TL passenger car.
The officer on scene saw the vehicle and made eye contact with the driver, the release states. The officer hit his horn to get the driver to stop.
Police say the driver accelerated and the officer turned on emergency equipment in an attempt to get the car to stop. The driver went over a curb and patch of grass in the parking lot, nearly hitting a pedestrian walking in the area.
Police say the driver of the Acura left the parking lot and north on 400 East then east onto 1400 South, then north onto State Street. Because of the time of day and the amount of traffic, the officer terminated the pursuit.
A short time later, police say, the driver stopped at 985 S. 400 East and the occupants in the vehicle fled on foot. A containment was set up and two of the passengers were caught. The driver was not.
At 11:07 a.m., police received a report of a stolen Ford F-250 taken from the area of 800 South and 500 East. Police say the owner of the truck followed the suspect in another car and provided dispatch with updates on location.
Lindon police caught up to the truck and engaged in a pursuit, police say. It was soon terminated.
At that point, Matafeo drove to Maceys 800 N. State Street. While at the grocery store, police say, Matafeo abandoned the truck and went to steal another vehicle in the parking lot.
Police say Matafeo had several felony warrants. Officers are actively searching for the other two suspects involved in the original incident.
Matafeo’s released a statement regarding the incident Monday. See the full statement below:
Today they will make public our name and they will make it appear they have all the answers. Since Saturday, not one story has been correct, not one story has been the same. That is okay because similar to facebook and most social media we simply cannot grasp the human spirit or even the emotion. So today I will become a media rep. It does not matter what they say or write, it will not bring my son back.
He did not attack or even have a weapon. He was scared and panicked and just trying to find a way to get home. Taulagi was not perfect, he struggled, but he was surrounded by many loving individuals who were trying to help him. He wanted to be happy, and for the most part he was. He loved unconditionally. He cried a lot with us, because he hated haveing pain and creating pain. Taulagi putting it simply just wanted to be loved and accepted and recognized. Therefore he gave hugs and amazing ones.
If the Media or anyone wants to do a great story. Do a truthful one about real people and the families that have these struggles. Do a story on how nearly impossible it is to get help, so many closed doors. Do a story and I am serious: on how the system almost encourages certain behaviors. Do a story and hopefully save someone from this tragedy or a family.
Lastly to the gun owners — I know you think that I will become anti-gun. I believe we all have rights and owning a gun is one of those. Remember that owning a gun comes huge responsibility, the individual who shot my son will now have to carry that burden with him forever. He shot someone’s son, father, brother, uncle, someone who was loved tremendously. He is not a hero nor is he a traitor. He was someone who shot a defenseless man. My sons actions has created a lot of pain for many families. We are sorry.
Please go out and hug someone today. Look someone in the eyes who is struggling and let them know they are loved and help is there. Do not judge anyone. Hold your families tight.



Filed in: News Topics: attempted carjacking, conceal carry permit, orem police 








			12 comments		




 

ANOTHERBOB

Poor unarmed Mr. Taulagi Matafeo was late for Bible School got into a vehicle he mistakenly thought was his, couldn’t understand why the woman in the car was screaming for help, and then was killed in a most cold blooded manner when he held his hands over his head while offering a prayer to the great god Wiki.




							May 4, 2015 at 7:42 pm						








 

Bobby's Mom

Bob, anotherbob, rob. You sir are an A hole.You have no compassion for his family that may read this post. What he did was to say the least was wrong.and he paid the price for his  decisions. But do you have to spit hate and condescending remarks to every story on fox 13? Do you have no one?  Do you constantly have to try to instigate, with you comments under your screen names?
Get a Life A hole!




							May 4, 2015 at 8:10 pm						








 

Hunter

No  parent wants to lose a child, but Matafeo is not an unarmed victem, he was a criminal who chose too attack an INNOCENT woman. You know the unarmed woman being violently ripped from her car. Bobby’s mom you better hope the next time a thug that’s out there victemizing people your not the target, or at least hope a hero comes to yours and bobbys rescue




							May 4, 2015 at 10:12 pm						








 

ANOTHERBOB

Bobby’s Mom:  Here I am trying to plead this poor victim’s case and you call me some judgmental name?  Obviously Mr. Matafeo was a victim of our society and you and I bear the responsibility for mistakes that were forced upon him.




							May 5, 2015 at 5:54 am						












 

blanksheet

This mother is an idiot just like she raised her son to be! He deserves every little bit of what happened to him. What a loser just like his mother




							May 4, 2015 at 8:43 pm						








 

SQ

I personally know Taulagi and have for years, he was a very respectful young man who with the help of drugs and bad people wound up on the wrong path, he was the friend of all my children, and yes he was not doing the right thing but my heart goes out to his family, this is a great loss and I am so a sorry for their loss he will be missed by all those that truly knew him and not who he was being at the time of this tragedy; to sit there and slam his family is just sad especially since you didn’t know them, so easy to point the finger of blame and condemn people when you don’t  know anything about them, and don’t know the challenges they face… Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.  Only God is our judge and certainly not you.. He is now in God’s hands and all is healed, my prayers and thoughts go out to his family.. God bless




							May 4, 2015 at 9:39 pm						








 

Hunter

There is no doubt the mother is speaking out from pain. Any mother would,  once again he chose to do drugs and hang out with bad people, birds of a feather flock together.  The majority of society choses not to do drugs or hang out with bad people let alone put blame on others for our actions.  His choice!  I’m sorry as a parent this mother is feeling a loss of a child, but maybe if she wasn’t so blind to his actions and Making excuses for him, she’d prevented this behavior years ago and he would of made better choice such as not doing drugs or hanging out with bad people.. He was one of those bad people.




							May 4, 2015 at 10:23 pm						








 

Hunter is evil

Hunter, 
You are one of those bad people other people find so repugnant.
May God have mercy on you.




							May 5, 2015 at 1:11 am						










 

ANOTHERBOB

It is very possible that the woman who was screaming when Mr. Matafeo was carjacking her vehicle was over reacting.  She probably didn’t realize that he was “was scared and panicked and just trying to find a way to get home”.    Yes, he may have had some some felony warrants for his arrest, but who are we to judge?




							May 5, 2015 at 6:11 am						








 

SQ IS EVIL

Gary Gilmore was a very respectful young eagle scout.  It wasn’t who he was when he was young but who he was when he was executed on January 17, 1977 that counts.  Taulagi was a very respectful young man but that wasn’t who he was on the day he committed his final crime.




							May 5, 2015 at 7:54 am						










 

Stuart McDonald

@BOBBY’S MOM:  How much compassion did Matafeo show to the woman whose car he was stealing with her in it?  How much compassion and respect did Matafeo show to his mother who must now suffer because of his actions?  How easy it is to shift the responsibility for the damage and sorry this man caused onto the shoulders of those who comment on his misbehavior?




							May 5, 2015 at 8:08 am						








 

ShadowDetail

Matafeo was wanted on no-bail warrants for felony robbery, felony possession of a controlled substance and failure to stop for police. Utah court records also show convictions for theft and felony aggravated assault. “Taulagi was not perfect,” his family said. Well, at least they got that part right.
I feel the same concern for Matafeo that he felt for the lives he endangered during his car-chases, and he deserves the same sympathy that he showed the women he assaulted to steal those cars. Did anyone notice that he only carjacks women? You might expect his family to be blind to his criminal nature, but what explains the other posts here that defend the criminal and attack those who wish to live safely within the rule of law? If the apologists and enablers have their way then the rule of law will be replaced by the law of the jungle where the unarmed innocent always loses to the law-breaking aggressor.




							May 6, 2015 at 12:08 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Suspect dead after man with concealed carry permit intervenes in alleged carjacking in Orem


News

Utah County Attorney: No criminal charges for man who fatally shot suspect in alleged carjacking


News

Orem police arrest 2 of 4 people suspected of installing scanners on ATMs to defraud users


News

Alleged home invader fatally shot by homeowner lived nearby, may have been intoxicated


News

Man with concealed carry permit foils car burglary attempt in West Jordan



 


News

Carjacking suspect in custody after assaulting woman, being tased, having heart attack


News

Suspect in NYPD cop shooting faces attempted murder charges


News

69-year-old woman who fought off alleged carjacker: ‘I nailed his head about 3 or 4 times’


News

George Zimmerman shot, injured in road rage incident in Florida


News

Salt Lake police looking for homicide suspect



 


News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested


News

Witnesses lift SUV off 2-year-old girl trapped underneath in Orem crash


News

Orem store security cameras catch bystanders helping officer take down suspect






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts












































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















