Two more suspects arrested in shooting of beloved Utah store clerk | fox13now.com 
Two more suspects arrested in shooting of beloved Utah store clerk | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Two more suspects arrested in shooting of beloved Utah store clerk

Posted 11:50 am, April 23, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and Scott McKane, Updated at 04:18pm, April 23, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





MURRAY, Utah – Murray police now have a total of three suspects in custody, including the person they believe to be the trigger man in the murder of a beloved convenience store clerk weeks ago.
Martin A. Castillo
It was very early on the morning of March 18 when two armed suspects stormed into the Lee Market and robbed the clerk, Dave Marsh, at gunpoint.
As they were running away, Marsh threw a register tray at one of the suspects, who then opened fire, hitting Marsh with at least one bullet.
Marsh died a few days later at the hospital.
Since then, authorities have been involved in an intense manhunt for the suspects.
Thanks to the evidence and several viewer tips, police made the first arrest, 20-year-old Alexis Alan Garcia, last week.
Over this past weekend, tips led them all the way to Florida where they arrested 19-year-old Martin Castillo.
Juan A. Zalazar
On Wednesday afternoon, police busted 23-year-old Juan Zalazar as he was going into a relative’s home.
Officers said they believe he is the shooter in this case.
Martin Castillo is in the process of being extradited back to Utah from Florida.
Police won’t say exactly what he was doing there but they do not believe he fled there to hide.
They said they also do not believe Castillo was in the Murray store that March morning and said they feel confident the two individuals were Zalazar and Garcia.
Much of this will likely be sorted out in the coming days when formal charges are filed in the third District Court.


40.666892
-111.887991



Related stories

Murray police make arrest in fatal convenience store shooting
Murray residents meet to discuss community safety hours after shooting victim laid to rest
Murray store clerk’s death devastates community; $2,000 reward offered in case




Filed in: News Topics: crime, murder, murray, shooting 








			10 comments		




 

ANOTHERBOB

After their trial and conviction these three killers belong on death row.  And yes, if you’re involved in a robbery where someone is shot and killed the law considers you to be responsible.




							April 23, 2015 at 12:09 pm						








 

bob

You really think they’ll give the death penalty to a guy who wasn’t even in the store at the time?




							April 23, 2015 at 12:46 pm						








 

JEWLZZZ

No Bob, in the real world none of these animals will get the death penalty.  That doesn’t change the legal fact that “If more than one person participates in a felony that involves murder all involved are equally responsible, even those who didn’t cause the death. In some cases, even those who weren’t present when the death occurred are responsible.
Feel free to look it up for yourself.




							April 23, 2015 at 8:10 pm						












 

dmailand

citizenship status?




							April 23, 2015 at 12:19 pm						








 

bob

Racist.




							April 23, 2015 at 12:47 pm						








 

C'MON BOB

Citizenship involves nationality and has nothing to do with race Bob.  Get your dad to explain it to you, and if you don’t have one of those then ask your mommy.




							April 23, 2015 at 8:13 pm						












 

J

Hey fox 13. Any chance you could look into the increased Norteno Gang activity in Murray?




							April 23, 2015 at 2:24 pm						








 

Mikee

Yeah, journalists handle crime, not the police.




							April 24, 2015 at 3:41 am						








 

J

Mike. I have asked Murray ps to do something about the gang problem months before David was murdered. I am asking the media because the police don’t seem to care




							April 24, 2015 at 8:27 am						












 

sprtman

…and yes this is the democrat party’s fault. They are the ones who transport these people up here to attack us Americans.




							May 3, 2015 at 7:27 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Murray police make arrest in fatal convenience store shooting


News

Murray residents speak about crime concerns at city council meeting


News

Both suspects in armed robbery at Family Dollar now in custody


News

Murray residents meet to discuss community safety hours after shooting victim laid to rest


News

One dead, one in custody after fight on bus escalates to shooting in West Valley City



 


News

Police: Two in custody, one on run after smoke shop employee hit with rock


News

Affidavit releases new details into apparent murder-suicide in Murray


News

Suspects arrested, Holladay homeowner fires shot at accused burglars


News

Police arrest suspect accused of murdering man in Sugar House


News

High-speed chase without headlights ends with crash in Murray



 


News

George Zimmerman shot, injured in road rage incident in Florida


News

Clerk gives hilarious play-by-play of robbery in video ‘Let me double bag it for you’


News

Two arrested in connection with at least 20 burglaries in Centerville






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts










































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















