Salt Lake police looking for suspect in attempted child abduction | fox13now.com 
Salt Lake police looking for suspect in attempted child abduction | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Salt Lake police looking for suspect in attempted child abduction

Posted 12:58 pm, June 16, 2015, by David Wells 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Salt Lake police looking for suspect in attempted child abduction


 


SALT LAKE CITY — Salt Lake City police are looking for a man who reportedly tried to abduct a 12-year-old boy Monday afternoon.
According to a report from SLCPD, the boy was riding his bike at Poplar Grove Park, near 800 S Emery Street, when he stopped to use a water fountain.
At that point, the report said, the suspect approached the boy from behind and attempted to grab him.
The victim then shoved the suspect, rode his bike home and called police.
Police attempted to locate the suspect, but were unsuccessful.
The suspect was described as a tall, white male, bald, with a lot of wrinkles. He was wearing a blue shirt and black shorts, the report said.
Anyone with information that may help police locate the suspect is urged to call (801) 799-3000 or send an anonymous tip via text message.
To remain anonymous, send a text message to 274637. Start the text with the keyword TIPSLCPD (which routes it to SLCPD), then a space, followed by the relevant information or photos.

40.752339
-111.925297




Filed in: News Topics: attempted abduction, crime, poplar grove park, salt lake city 








			1 Comment		




 

bob

Find him, skin him alive, and slowly dip him in battery acid.  On TV.  Live.
That WILL cut down on child abductions.  I guarantee it.




							June 16, 2015 at 2:36 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Man wanted for kidnapping, robbery spotted in Glendale; police seek public’s help


News

FOUND: 10-year-old boy missing from Salt Lake school found safe


News

Police seek public’s help in locating suspect in RadioShack robbery


News

SLC police seek suspect in homicide, say he should be considered armed, dangerous


News

Police investigate alleged attempted child abduction at SLC school playground



 


News

Salt Lake Police asking public’s help after man’s body found near Jordan River


News

Salt Lake Police asking help locating alleged liquor store looters


News

Suspect at large accused of ‘stomping and dragging’ homeless man, victim in critical condition


News

Utah family locked themselves in room as suspect broke in, threatened them with knife


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes



 


News

Pleasant Grove police arrest second suspect in alleged bank robbery


News

SLCPD officer cleared in March 3 shooting that left suspect critically injured


News

SLC Councilman won’t seek re-election to be with other member of SLC Council






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















