2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say | fox13now.com 
2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say

Posted 8:36 am, April 12, 2015, by Tiffany DeMasters, Updated at 04:23pm, April 12, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say


 


SOUTH JORDAN, Utah — Two males were arrested Saturday after breaking into a popular clothing store and stealing hundreds of dollars in clothing and long boards, according to police Sunday morning.
At approximately 2:38 a.m. Saturday, South Jordan police officers were in the area of a Zumiez, located in the District, 11465 S. District Main Drive, when they heard unusual banging noises from the business area.
When officers went to check it out they noticed the front window of Zumiez had been broken out and two suspects were running from the store, according to a press release from South Jordan police.
The officers pursued and were able to apprehend to males, Michael Burgess, 21, of West Jordan, and Joshua Rash, 18, of Herriman.
Burgess and Rash were found with long boards and clothing in the amount of $500, the release states. Damage to the business is estimated to be more than $400.
Burgess and Rash were booked into the Salt Lake County Adult Detention Center on burglary charges and fleeing police.
“This case is an example of outstanding police work. These officers heard an unusual sound and investigated the origin of the sound, which lead to the discovery of a burglary in-progress and quick apprehension of these two suspects,” said Master Officer Samuel Winkler, spokesman for South Jordan police.



Filed in: News Topics: burglary, south jordan police 








			3 comments		




 

truth

I’m pretty sure that these two fine gentlemen are the ones that were breaking in the state liquor stores as well. Case closed.




							April 12, 2015 at 8:07 pm						








 

Matt

As a U.S. Marine it would be my pleasure to invite these two dirt bags to join the USMC and let’s see how long they have smirks on their faces. Too bad we still don’t have the “Old Corps” functioning. These two would be – well – getting stronger by way of bucket lifting. (I give them 10-minutes and they would be in tears.)




							April 12, 2015 at 9:58 pm						








 

boom

i know the burgess kid, hes an idiot




							April 13, 2015 at 4:18 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding


News

Man taken to hospital in critical condition after accidental shooting following firearms training


News

Mom with 4 unbuckled kids in car arrested for DUI after passing out, hitting trees during paper route


News

Police: Suspects break smoke shop employee’s face with rock, rob store


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan



 


News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody


News

Police: Two in custody, one on run after smoke shop employee hit with rock


News

Citizen takes action, leads South Jordan police to suspect who has at least 127 alleged victims


News

Missing driver from South Jordan rollover found hiding in trunk of realtor’s vehicle, police say


News

Final suspect in violent smoke shop robbery turns self in, police thank public for tips



 


News

Juveniles busted for underage drinking at West Jordan house party, police say


News

Two in custody, two outstanding, one injured after neighbors intervene in home burglary


News

Man arrested for alleged DUI after SUV strikes 2 parked cars in Salt Lake City






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts




































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















