Body found in suitcase along I-80 in Utah may be missing woman from Las Vegas | fox13now.com 
Body found in suitcase along I-80 in Utah may be missing woman from Las Vegas | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Body found in suitcase along I-80 in Utah may be missing woman from Las Vegas

Posted 4:39 pm, May 1, 2015, by Caroline Connolly and Mark Green, Updated at 09:36pm, May 1, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





SALT LAKE CITY — The body of a woman found stuffed in a suitcase and tossed along the side of I-80 in Salt Lake County could be connected to a missing person case out of Nevada.
“It’s believed that she was out there anywhere from several weeks, several months. There was a time period out there, she was badly decomposed,” said Lt. Justin Hoyal of Unified Police Department.
But some elements found on the body could make the victim easier to identify. According to Hoyal, the woman had a mastectomy to the right breast and a pink breast cancer ribbon tattoo on the left wrist.
Both match the description of Susana Villalvazo, 46, who has been missing from Las Vegas since November 2014.
“This is a lead we just recently received, and it’s something that we’re going to continue to follow-up on,” Hoyal said. “Our detectives just learned of this.”
But search crews in Nevada said the discovery in Utah confirms their worst fears.
“He took her to Utah. That was always our feeling, and well we have our answer now, don’t we,” said Commander Dave Cummings of Red Rock Search and Rescue.
The group had been assisting the family with independent searches since Villalvazo first disappeared.
The ‘he’ Cummings referred to is Villalvazo’s stepfather, whom has long been suspected of killing her, before dumping the body and then taking his own life.
“He had murdered her, put her into a suitcase, wrapped it in plastic and people could see him struggling to put it into the back of a car,” Cummings said. “Then, he just went straight to the [I-15] and headed for Salt Lake City.”
According to Hoyal, Unified Police is currently working with Las Vegas authorities. However, he said it could be weeks before they confirm their victim’s identity.
But for many, this puts an end to the mystery surrounding Villalvazo.
“We’re pleased that the family now has an answer,” Cummings said. “They have an answer and now they can begin the process of closure, however that works for them.”



Filed in: News Topics: accident on I-80, body found in suitcase, fatal shooting, I-80, murder, saltair 








			6 comments		




 

bob

Not the missing girl from Provo after all.




							May 1, 2015 at 5:37 pm						








 

Miss Feminist

There’s more, Bob! The Nevada woman was killed by her step-father- Samuel Teran (who was white). Guess it wasn’t illegals after all!! Your theory was wrong.




							May 2, 2015 at 9:27 am						








 

bob

How thrilling for you.  I bet your fingers are in your pants as we speak.




							May 2, 2015 at 9:44 pm						








 

bob

“Teran” is a Hispanic name.  Often Cuban, to be specific.  Or at least that’s the most common origin of people in the U.S. with that last name, according to Immigration records.  
He was a member of that new race that liberals invented for George Zimmerman.  “White-Hispanic”, or whatever you call it.  Kind of like the cop charged in Freddie Gray’s death is “Black-Hispanic White.”  Or something.
But hey…..believe whatever you wish.




							May 2, 2015 at 9:50 pm						








 

bob

From the FBI’s “Wanted” posters:
“Samuel Teran is also Hispanic, around 5’7″ tall and weighs around 160 pounds with brown hair and eyes.”
“White-Hispanic”, of course.  They forgot to work that in there.  All evils are committed by white people.




							May 2, 2015 at 9:54 pm						












 

DaviD

Don’t care to have cable or TV,,, so this site is GreaT,,, thx




							May 2, 2015 at 7:48 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Auto Trader
Need to sell your car? List it for free!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Police investigating after body found in suitcase dumped near Saltair


News

Family of missing Provo woman optimistic as search efforts continue


News

Missing, endangered Magna teen found safe in WVC


News

Autopsy completed on woman found in Jordan River, cause of death undetermined


News

Elizabeth Smart family gets involved in search for missing Provo woman



 


News

Police investigating suspicious death after woman found dead in South Salt Lake apartment


News

Body found on mountainside is missing 23-year-old Ogden woman


News

SLC business owner awarded for helping in Amber Alert situation


News

Loved ones seek answers in the death of woman found on North Ogden mountainside


News

Hundreds volunteer during search for missing Provo woman



 


News

Loved ones hold vigil for Ogden woman found dead under suspicious circumstances


News

Police find woman’s body after car spotted upside down in Jordan River


News

Family of missing woman from Cedar City offers $10,000 reward in case






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts




































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















