Police search for suspects accused of slashing man with knife, stealing wallet | fox13now.com 
Police search for suspects accused of slashing man with knife, stealing wallet | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police search for suspects accused of slashing man with knife, stealing wallet

Posted 4:03 pm, June 18, 2015, by Ashton Edwards 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Police search for suspects accused of slashing man with knife, stealing wallet


 


SOUTH SALT LAKE, Utah – Police are asking for the public’s help finding two men accused of slashing a victim with a knife and then stealing his wallet.
Officers said, just before midnight, a man was taking out the trash at a business near 900 W. and 2500 S. when two men approached him and demanded his wallet.
The three men got into a fight and police said one of the suspects pulled out a knife and slashed the man in his stomach.
He is expected to recover.
Officers said the suspects got away with the man’s wallet and a few items from an unlocked car.
“We encourage people to be cautious especially when working late at night,” South Salt Lake Police Sgt. Matthew Oehler said. “It’s good too, if you have a co-worker available to go with you outside; if you’re going to be working late that’s certainly beneficial.”
Police don’t have a description of the suspects at this time.
Officers said they would like to speak with anyone who might have information at (801) 840-4000.

40.716417
-111.917388




Filed in: News Topics: crime, south salt lake 













 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

SLC police: officer shoots knife-wielding man after responding to woman’s screams


News

Police investigate recent rash of Salt Lake Valley store robberies


News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody


News

Dump truck police chase ends with spike strips, pepper spray; incident caught on camera


News

Two suspects sought after police pursue stolen vehicle in Salt Lake City



 


News

Men wanted for kidnapping, forgery, exploitation; claimed to be elderly victim’s ‘personal assistants’


News

Police chase ends at Salt Lake airport after robbery, numerous crashes


News

Suspect at large accused of ‘stomping and dragging’ homeless man, victim in critical condition


News

Officers forced to use Taser, pepper spray to tackle man accused of attacking them


News

Police search for 2 suspects accused of shooting man outside Utah home



 


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan


News

Lovers’ quarrel ends with boyfriend slashing teen in West Valley City


News

Shoplifting suspect evades officers during chase, rams squad car to escape






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















