Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 


Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV














Go
Search
















 Replay: 
PIX11 News 



PIX11 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV




 
Menu




NEWS


Local


Morning


Sports


PIX Team


Contests


Traffic


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
69°


High 
82°












Sat





					71° 
 86°
					






Sun





					74° 
 91°
					






Mon





					75° 
 92°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre




Posted 10:42 PM, June 27, 2015, by 
CNN
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
Email
Google
 














CHARLESTON, S.C. — On this hot, humid Saturday, in Charleston, South Carolina, hundreds of people gathered once more at Emanuel AME Church to pay their respects and say their final farewells to three of the nine people killed in last week’s shooting during a Bible study class. Family, friends, strangers black and white, all came together for “home going” services for Cythia Hurd, Susie Jackson and Tywanza Sanders.


Cynthia Graham Hurd


South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, who has attended all six of the funerals held so far for the victims who’ve come to be known as “the Emanuel Nine,” said 54-year-old Cynthia Hurd was someone she only read about but wishes she had known. ” I love the fact that she said she was inspired by her mom because ‘can’t’ was never in her vocabulary,” Haley told the mourners.


Standing on the pulpit, decorated on both sides with huge matching floral arrangements of colorful, yellow and red flowers, Haley joked that, ” After every service I come to, I’m convinced I’m going to become an AME member after this.”


Hurd’s casket was adorned with a huge spray of pink and burgundy roses. Framing both sides of the casket, were nearly life-sized photos of Hurd from important occasions in her life. Next to the casket — a large, heart-shaped floral wreath dominating the sanctuary, infused with a startling bunch of red roses in the middle, bringing to mind a broken heart.


One after another friends, coworkers and relatives spoke of how loved Hurd was in her community. They spoke of how she never had kids of her own, but “adopted” everyone else’s kids, and of how much her loss had impacted her husband, Steve.


Rev. Jessie Jackson marveled at how the community of Charleston had come together, turning the other cheek and showing love in the face of hatred.


“Cythia Hurd not only taught us how to love, it was her family who taught us how to forgive”, said Haley. “She not only taught us how to love, it was her family who taught us how to forgive” she said.


Susie Jackson and Tywanza Sanders


Almost as soon as one funeral ended, the next began for 26-year-old Tywanza Sanders and his 86-year-old aunt Susie Jackson. They were together at Bible study that fateful night. When the shooting began he jumped up to try to protect his aunt and both were killed. They were remembered together on Saturday.


Both caskets sat before the pulpit — a huge spray of pink flowers on hers and dark purple flowers on his.


There were words of comfort from Charleston Mayor Joesph Riley, who has also attended every funeral. “Within this heartbreaking tragedy” he said “you, the family and this community of prayer have sent a desperately needed message to the world. And that is: you respond to hate with love.”


Referencing the controversy surrounding the Confederate flag, Jackson said there have been efforts to “get it down” for many years. “But, somehow there’s power in the blood” he told the mourners. “And the stained banner of blood brought it down and it will stay down.” Jackson also thanked Haley for saying publicly that it was time for the flag to come down.


Haley spoke again from the pulpit at the funerals of Jackson and Sanders, saying, “It doesn’t matter how many funerals you go, to they’re all hard, because it shouldn’t have happened.”


Haley spoke directly to the families telling them “I’ve struggled through all of these funerals because this happened on my watch. And what I can tell you is we will make this right. They will not have died in vain.”


Three more funerals remain


The funeral for Rev, DePayne Middleton-Doctor, who was 49, is planned for Sunday at 1 p.m. ET, also at Emanuel AME church.


On Monday, Myra Thompson, who was 59 will be laid to rest. Her funeral will take place at Emanuel AME church as well.


Plans have not been announced for the funeral of Rev. Daniel L. Simmons, Sr. who was 74.










Trademark and Copyright 2015 
Cable News Network
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Watch The CW Now!


See last night’s episodes now on The CW
















 




 






Popular








NBA great Darryl Dawkins has died at 58 years old








Video showing shootings of WDBJ crew posted under Bryce Williams Twitter, Facebook accounts








Reporter, photographer shot to death on air in Virginia








‘Dead’ teen ‘wakes up’ screaming, banging inside coffin; family smashes tomb
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








Calif. man bitten while taking selfie with rattlesnake








CEO of Ashley Madison parent company steps down after hack








WATCH IT: Sinkhole swallows 5 people in China is captured on video












 


























News




Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community






News




Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter






News




Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church






News




S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate battle flag from capitol grounds






News




Confederate battle flag lowered in South Carolina Capitol








 






News




Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm






News




Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre






News




South Carolina lawmakers to debate Confederate flag on Monday






News




Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source






News




Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?








 






News




Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened






News




Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings






News




Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 5,004 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com


















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







































