After Charleston shooting, Hanaway cancels fundraiser with South Carolina governor  | PoliticMo

After Charleston shooting, Hanaway cancels fundraiser with South Carolina governor  | PoliticMo




















Search for:












PoliticMo


Missouri News, Politics, Opinions
 






 










 




Main menu


Skip to content


About Eli Yokley


About PoliticMo


News Services


Blog


Advertising


 




Sub menu


















Politics



                    After Charleston shooting, Hanaway cancels fundraiser with South Carolina governor                 



        by 
Eli Yokley
 • 
June 18, 2015
 






— For more than a month, Republican gubernatorial candidate Catherine Hanaway had been inviting donors to a fundraiser Thursday night at Hunter Farms with an all-star host committee matched by a well known headliner, South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley. 


But, that all changed on Thursday morning as the nation woke up to the story of a shocking church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina. 


Hanaway, in an email to donors who had planned to attend, called for prayers for South Carolina. 


“With the wounds of this tragedy still so fresh, we are of course postponing our event scheduled for this evening with Governor Haley,” she said. “The people of South Carolina need their governor.”


Thursday’s fundraiser was set to be one of Hanaway’s largest so far, as the former House Speaker and federal prosecutor readies for the pending entrance of more Republican candidates into the field this summer. 


Read the email below:


“By this time, I am sure that you are all aware of the atrocity committed in Charleston, South Carolina last night, where according to press reports a man murdered nine worshippers at the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.  I hope that you will all join me in prayer for the victims and their families, as well as for swift justice to be meted out against the perpetrator.  Racism has no place in our society, and violence of this nature is simply intolerable.


In its storied 200-year history, the pulpit at Emanuel AME has hosted the likes of Booker T. Washington and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and the church has been a bastion of resilience for its parishioners and community through troubled times and tragedy.  With God’s help, I pray that the community will be able to triumph over adversity once again.  As it is written in the Book of Lamentations, “Though He brings grief, He will show compassion, so great is His unfailing love.”


With the wounds of this tragedy still so fresh, we are of course postponing our event scheduled for this evening with Governor Haley.  The people of South Carolina need their governor, and I firmly believe that South Carolina could have no stronger and more capable leader than Nikki to steer the ship of state through this crisis.


As always, thank you for your continued support, and I hope that you will be able to join me in welcoming Governor Haley to our great state as soon as she is able to make the trip.”


Share
Print
Email




Related


 










Post navigation


← A $50,000 contribution to Nixon with curious timing raises questions


University of Central Missouri’s report on sexual harassment allegations against Sen. Paul Levota →








Leave a Reply 
Cancel reply


















Sign up for PoliticMo Rundown






















Email Address















				powered by 
MailChimp
!
			








 










Search for:




 
 
Recent Posts
 




University of Central Missouri’s report on sexual harassment allegations against Sen. Paul Levota


July 24, 2015






After Charleston shooting, Hanaway cancels fundraiser with South Carolina governor 


June 18, 2015






A $50,000 contribution to Nixon with curious timing raises questions


June 17, 2015






 








 


 


 










Copyright © 2015 
PoliticMo
. All Rights Reserved.


Magazine Basic created by 
c.bavota
.




















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address








Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



































