 Suspect captured in deadly shooting at black church in South Carolina - The Washington Post 
 Suspect captured in deadly shooting at black church in South Carolina - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
Marketplaces
 
 
 
WP BrandConnect
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign In
 
 
 
 
 
Username
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subscribe
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home Page
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
 
 
PowerPost
 
 
 
The Fix
 
 
 
Govbeat
 
 
 
The Fed Page
 
 
 
White House
 
 
 
Courts and Law
 
 
 
Polling
 
 
 
Monkey Cage
 
 
 
Fact Checker
 
 
 
Federal Eye
 
 
 
Post Politics Blog
 
 
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
 
 
Toles Cartoons
 
 
 
Telnaes Animations
 
 
 
The Post's View
 
 
 
Letters to the Editor
 
 
 
Act Four
 
 
 
All Opinions Are Local
 
 
 
Book Party
 
 
 
Compost
 
 
 
Erik Wemple
 
 
 
Five Myths
 
 
 
Plum Line
 
 
 
PostEverything
 
 
 
PostPartisan
 
 
 
Rampage
 
 
 
Right Turn
 
 
 
The Watch
 
 
 
Volokh Conspiracy
 
 
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Redskins
 
 
 
NFL
 
 
 
Nationals
 
 
 
Wizards
 
 
 
Capitals
 
 
 
Fantasy Sports
 
 
 
D.C. Sports Bog
 
 
 
Fancy Stats
 
 
 
Early Lead
 
 
 
AllMetSports
 
 
 
D.C. United
 
 
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
D.C.
 
 
 
Maryland
 
 
 
Virginia
 
 
 
Public Safety
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
Transportation
 
 
 
Weather
 
 
 
Acts of Faith
 
 
 
Inspired Life
 
 
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
 
 
Health and Science
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
Investigations
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
Morning Mix
 
 
 
Post Nation
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
 
 
Africa
 
 
 
The Americas
 
 
 
Asia and Pacific
 
 
 
Europe
 
 
 
Middle East
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
WorldViews
 
 
 
Checkpoint
 
 
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
 
 
Wonkblog
 
 
 
On Leadership
 
 
 
Personal Finance
 
 
 
Digger
 
 
 
Energy and Environment
 
 
 
Markets
 
 
 
On Small Business
 
 
 
World Business
 
 
 
Know More
 
 
 
Capital Business
 
 
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
 
 
On I.T.
 
 
 
The Switch
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
 
 
Advice
 
 
 
Carolyn Hax
 
 
 
Food
 
 
 
Style Blog
 
 
 
Travel
 
 
 
Weddings
 
 
 
Wellness
 
 
 
Magazine
 
 
 
Home and Garden
 
 
 
Fashion
 
 
 
KidsPost
 
 
 
On Parenting
 
 
 
Reliable Source
 
 
 
The Intersect
 
 
 
Solo-ish
 
 
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
 
 
Books
 
 
 
Comics
 
 
 
Going Out Guide
 
 
 
Horoscopes
 
 
 
Movies
 
 
 
Museums
 
 
 
Music
 
 
 
Puzzles and Games
 
 
 
Theater and Dance
 
 
 
TV
 
 
 
Comic Riffs
 
 
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
 
 
Live
 
 
 
Top News
 
 
 
Popular Video
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Technology
 
 
 
Style
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
Buy a Home
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Sell a Home
 
 
 
Tools and Calculators
 
 
 
Where We Live
 
 
 
 
 
Photography
 
 
 
 
 
In Sight
 
 
 
 
 
Live Chats
 
 
 
Marketplaces
 
 
 
 
 
Jobs
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Cars
 
 
 
Classifieds
 
 
 
 
 
WP BrandConnect
 
 
 
Partners
 
 
 
 
 
Express
 
 
 
WP Wine Club
 
 
 
El Tiempo Latino
 
 
 
Parade
 
 
 
Fashion Washington
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Terms of Service
 
 
 
Privacy Policy
 
 
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
 
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
 
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
 
 
Share on Twitter
 
 
Share on Google Plus
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
More Options
 
 
 
Share on Whatsapp
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National
 
Suspect captured in deadly shooting at black church in South Carolina
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
 
Print Article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 of 53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Screen
 
Autoplay
 
 
Close
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skip Ad
 
 
 
×
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shooting at historic African American church in South Carolina
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Photos
 
 
 
Officials said nine people were killed and others were injured after a gunman opened fire at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, S.C., on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 
Caption
 
 
 
Officials said nine people were killed and others injured by a gunman at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston.
 
 
June 19, 2015
 
In this image from video, suspect Dylann Roof appears by closed-circuit televison at his bond hearing in Charleston, S.C.
 
Pool/Reuters
 
 
Buy Photo
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wait 1 second to continue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
Robert Costa,
, 
Sari Horwitz
 and 
William Wan
 
June 18
 
 
Follow @sarihorwitz
 
Follow @thewanreport
 
 
 
 
 
CHARLESTON, S.C. —
 Authorities arrested a lone high school dropout in connection with the slaying of a prominent minister and eight parishioners in the South’s oldest African American church and were working Thursday to determine a motive for the shooting.
 
The alleged gunman, Dylann Roof, 21, of Eastover, S.C., reportedly declared his hatred for black people before opening fire on a Bible study group at the church late Wednesday, federal law enforcement officials said.
 
Agents were continuing to interview witnesses, including one woman who survived the slaughter. Roof allegedly released her, one law enforcement official said, so she could tell others what had happened.
 
After a tense overnight manhunt, Roof was nabbed about 250 miles to the north in Shelby, N.C., after a local florist said she recognized him and his car from news reports. The slaying, which is being investigated as a hate crime, horrified the nation and revived fears about the persistence of racial hatred.
 
At a White House news conference, President Obama expressed “sadness and anger” at the violence, as well as impatience with the refusal of lawmakers to tighten the nation’s gun laws.
 
 
 
 
 
Read the victims’ stories 
View Graphic 
 
 
 
 
Read the victims’ stories
 
 
“Once again innocent people were killed because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hands on a gun,” Obama said. “At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries.”
 
 
[
Live updates from Charleston
]
 
 
The shooting occurred late Wednesday in downtown Charleston at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, one of the oldest black churches in the nation. According to authorities, the gunman — a skinny white man with a distinctive mop of sandy hair — walked in about 8 p.m. and was invited to sit with parishioners at their Wednesday-night Bible study session.
 
A Snapchat video taken shortly before the shooting and obtained by Mashable.com appears to show a white man sitting with the black parishioners around a table in a church meeting room.
 
Law enforcement officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss an ongoing investigation, said the man sat silently for about an hour, declining to join the discussion.
 
Instead, around 9 p.m., he abruptly announced that he had come to kill black people. Then he opened fire. When Roof was arrested, he had a Glock .45-
caliber semiautomatic handgun that law enforcement officials said he had obtained in April, either receiving it as a birthday gift or buying it himself with birthday money. The gun was purchased legally, officials said. 
 
Witnesses told authorities they never saw the man pull out the gun. Instead, they saw him start shooting, up close, targeting each victim with precision. The man took the time to reload the handgun “several times,” officials said.
 
 
 
Dylann Roof is in custody after police say he opened fire at a historic African American church in Charleston, SC. Here’s a look at the 21-year-old's background, including recent arrests, and what authorities say happened inside the church. (Alice Li/The Washington Post)
 
 
 
Afterward, eight people lay dead and a ninth lay dying. Among the victims was the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, 41, Emanuel AME’s charismatic pastor, who also served in the South Carolina Senate.
 
Authorities identified the other victims as the Rev. Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45, who is the mother of a Charleston Southern University student; Cynthia Hurd, 47, the manager of the St. Andrews Regional Library in Charleston; Susie Jackson, 87; Ethel Lance, 70; DePayne Middleton; Tywanza Sanders, 26; and Myra Thompson, 59. Daniel Simmons, 74, died at the hospital.
 
Through the night, authorities combed the streets of Charleston, but they found no trace of the gunman other than a chilling image captured by a church security camera. They released a description and an image from the video. 
 
When Roof’s sister saw it on TV, she promptly called police, law enforcement officials said, and gave them her brother’s name.
 
A troubled loner who dropped out of school in ninth grade and had a history of small-time arrests, Roof maintained a Facebook page that seems to reflect his worldview: The profile picture shows him scowling in a wooded swamp, wearing a jacket with at least two conspicuous patches. According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks hate groups, the patches depict the flags of old racist, white regimes in southern Africa, including Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe).
 
 
[
In photo, suspect wears flags of racists regimes
]
 
 
 
Authorities quickly set up a toll-free tip number. At the crime scene, impromptu prayer circles formed, along with huddles of friends asking about the victims and seeking updates from police. News of Roof’s arrest came at 10:49 a.m. Acting on a citizen’s tip, police took him peacefully into custody after a traffic stop
.
 
Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen said Roof “was cooperative with the officer who stopped him.” 
 
On Thursday afternoon, Roof wore a bulletproof vest over a white T-shirt as he was led out of the police station in Shelby, N.C. He neither looked at nor looked away from reporters crowded around the station’s back entrance. He waived extradition to South Carolina and was flown back to Charleston late Thursday.
 
Authorities declined to say whether he had confessed to the shooting, but police said they think he acted alone.
 
It was unclear why Roof fled to Shelby. His home in Eastover is near Columbia, South Carolina’s state capital, about 130 miles to the south, but his sister’s fiance, Michael Tyo, lives in Shelby.
 
Wednesday’s shooting was the deadliest attack on a place of worship in the United States since 1991, when nine people were killed at the Wat Promkunaram temple near Phoenix. Johnathan Doody, tried three times for the execution-style murders at the Buddhist temple, was sentenced in 2014 to 249 years in prison.
 
Carl Chinn runs what is considered to be the most extensive database on violence at houses of worship. He said the shooting was “certainly one of, if not the most, vicious attacks I’ve seen at a faith-based organization.”
 
For some, the shooting evoked memories of the 1963 Birmingham bombing, in which Ku Klux Klan member planted dynamite on the steps of the 16th Street Baptist Church, killing four African American girls.
 
“For such a heinous act to be perpetrated in a house of God more than a half a century after the 16th Street tragedy is a reminder to us all that we must be ever vigilant and work as one community to call out and eliminate racial hatred,” said Doug Jones, the former U.S. attorney who prosecuted some of the Klan members.
 
Remembering the victims
 
“We woke up today, and the heart and soul of South Carolina was broken,” South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley (R) said, choking back tears at a news conference. “We have some grieving to do. And we have some pain to go through. Parents are having to explain to their kids how they can go to church and feel safe, and that’s not something we ever thought we’d have to deal with.”
 
Pictures from the South Carolina State House showed a black cloth draped at the desk where Pinckney sat in the State Senate. The Confederate flag continued to wave outside.
 
Vice President Biden, who had seen Pinckney last year at a prayer breakfast in Columbia, S.C., called the shooting an “act of pure evil and hatred.”
 
“Hate has once again been let loose in an American community,” Biden and his wife, Jill, said in a statement. “And the senseless actions of a coward have once again cut short so many lives with so much promise.”
 
At a midday service at Morris Brown AME Church, blocks away from the previous night’s massacre, the congregation burst into applause when the Rev. Norvel Goff announced Roof’s capture.
 
“Some of us haven’t been to bed yet,” Goff said. “But good folk can’t go to sleep when evil is trying to come in.”
 
 
 
Horwitz and Wan reported from Washington. Anne Gearan in Charleston and Ken Otterbourg in Shelby and J. Freedom du Lac, Mark Berman, Lindsey Bever, Sarah Larimer, Elahe Izadi, Jose A. DelReal, Thad Moore, Ishaan Tharoor, Sarah Pulliam Bailey, Brian Murphy and Julie Tate in Washington contributed to this report.
 
 
Read more:
 
 
 
●The ugly truth about hate crimes
 
 
 
● 
11 essential facts about guns and mass shootings in the United States
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sari Horwitz covers the Justice Department and criminal justice issues nationwide for The Washington Post, where she has been a reporter for 30 years.
William Wan is the Post's roving national correspondent, based in Washington, D.C. He previously served as the paper’s religion reporter and diplomatic correspondent and for three years as the Post’s China correspondent in Beijing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Twitter
Tweet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
✕
 
Thank you for signing up
 
You'll receive e-mail when new stories are published in this series.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 National
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
The incredible life and haunting death of world traveler Harry Devert
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
The ‘saddest bride I have ever seen': Child marriage is as popular as ever in Bangladesh
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
The ‘self-fulfilling prophecy’ of stereotyping Asian American students
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
Videos deceptively edited, Planned Parenthood tells Congress
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
A frenzy in Poland over the latest mysterious ‘Nazi gold train’
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Most 
Popular All Over
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Atlantic
 
 
 
 
The Coddling of the American Mind
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TIME
 
 
 
 
North Carolina Cop Will Not Face Retrial for Fatal Shooting of Black Man
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christian Science Monitor
 
 
 
 
Butterflies in space? Hubble beams back specular image of iridescent 'wings'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Slate
 
 
 
 
The Story Behind the One-Pan, Nine-Minute Pasta Recipe That Took Over the Internet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Insider
 
 
 
 
A financial planner ranks your debts from most to least urgent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fast Company
 
 
 
 
Google's Secret Strategy To Recruit Engineers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Welle
 
 
 
 
Approach of tropical storm Erika puts Florida in state of emergency
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Hill
 
 
 
 
Pollsters dumbfounded by Trump
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salon
 
 
 
 
The GOP's nuclear option for Donald Trump: Why the only way to beat him is so scary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fusion
 
 
 
 
Jorge Ramos to Megyn Kelly on Trump: ‘He tried to silence me'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NY Magazine
 
 
 
 
If These Girls Knew That Slender Man Was a Fantasy, Why Did They Want to Kill Their Friend for Him?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grist
 
 
 
 
Hey, Burning Man: Your desert party sucks for the rest of us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WBUR (Boston)
 
 
 
 
A Recipe For Longevity? Beans, Friends, Purpose And Movement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Baltimore Sun
 
 
 
 
Maryland state superintendent resigns for new job
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Journal Sentinel (Milwaukee)
 
 
 
 
Stevie Ray Vaughan's legend lives on 25 years after death
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Denver Post
 
 
 
 
Police locate semi that hit four bridges on I-25 in Denver
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honolulu Star Advertiser
 
 
 
 
Ignacio on track to pass near Hawaii; Jimena also a hurricane
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Business Times
 
 
 
 
Prosecco: Everything you need to know about the UK's favourite sparkling wine
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Most
 Popular stories around the web 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Help and Contact Us
 
Terms of Service
 
Privacy Policy
 
Print Products Terms of Sale
 
Digital Products Terms of Sale
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
 
 
 
The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
Terms of Service
 and 
Privacy Policy
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
Sign in
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
Return to Article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 