 Church shooting suspect Dylann Roof captured amid hate crime investigation - The Washington Post 
 Church shooting suspect Dylann Roof captured amid hate crime investigation - The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
Marketplaces
 
 
 
WP BrandConnect
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign In
 
 
 
 
 
Username
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subscribe
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home Page
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
 
 
PowerPost
 
 
 
The Fix
 
 
 
Govbeat
 
 
 
The Fed Page
 
 
 
White House
 
 
 
Courts and Law
 
 
 
Polling
 
 
 
Monkey Cage
 
 
 
Fact Checker
 
 
 
Federal Eye
 
 
 
Post Politics Blog
 
 
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
 
 
Toles Cartoons
 
 
 
Telnaes Animations
 
 
 
The Post's View
 
 
 
Letters to the Editor
 
 
 
Act Four
 
 
 
All Opinions Are Local
 
 
 
Book Party
 
 
 
Compost
 
 
 
Erik Wemple
 
 
 
Five Myths
 
 
 
Plum Line
 
 
 
PostEverything
 
 
 
PostPartisan
 
 
 
Rampage
 
 
 
Right Turn
 
 
 
The Watch
 
 
 
Volokh Conspiracy
 
 
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Redskins
 
 
 
NFL
 
 
 
Nationals
 
 
 
Wizards
 
 
 
Capitals
 
 
 
Fantasy Sports
 
 
 
D.C. Sports Bog
 
 
 
Fancy Stats
 
 
 
Early Lead
 
 
 
AllMetSports
 
 
 
D.C. United
 
 
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
D.C.
 
 
 
Maryland
 
 
 
Virginia
 
 
 
Public Safety
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
Transportation
 
 
 
Weather
 
 
 
Acts of Faith
 
 
 
Inspired Life
 
 
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
 
 
Health and Science
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
Investigations
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
Morning Mix
 
 
 
Post Nation
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
 
 
Africa
 
 
 
The Americas
 
 
 
Asia and Pacific
 
 
 
Europe
 
 
 
Middle East
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
WorldViews
 
 
 
Checkpoint
 
 
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
 
 
Wonkblog
 
 
 
On Leadership
 
 
 
Personal Finance
 
 
 
Digger
 
 
 
Energy and Environment
 
 
 
Markets
 
 
 
On Small Business
 
 
 
World Business
 
 
 
Know More
 
 
 
Capital Business
 
 
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
 
 
On I.T.
 
 
 
The Switch
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
 
 
Advice
 
 
 
Carolyn Hax
 
 
 
Food
 
 
 
Style Blog
 
 
 
Travel
 
 
 
Weddings
 
 
 
Wellness
 
 
 
Magazine
 
 
 
Home and Garden
 
 
 
Fashion
 
 
 
KidsPost
 
 
 
On Parenting
 
 
 
Reliable Source
 
 
 
The Intersect
 
 
 
Solo-ish
 
 
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
 
 
Books
 
 
 
Comics
 
 
 
Going Out Guide
 
 
 
Horoscopes
 
 
 
Movies
 
 
 
Museums
 
 
 
Music
 
 
 
Puzzles and Games
 
 
 
Theater and Dance
 
 
 
TV
 
 
 
Comic Riffs
 
 
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
 
 
Live
 
 
 
Top News
 
 
 
Popular Video
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Technology
 
 
 
Style
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
Buy a Home
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Sell a Home
 
 
 
Tools and Calculators
 
 
 
Where We Live
 
 
 
 
 
Photography
 
 
 
 
 
In Sight
 
 
 
 
 
Live Chats
 
 
 
Marketplaces
 
 
 
 
 
Jobs
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Cars
 
 
 
Classifieds
 
 
 
 
 
WP BrandConnect
 
 
 
Partners
 
 
 
 
 
Express
 
 
 
WP Wine Club
 
 
 
El Tiempo Latino
 
 
 
Parade
 
 
 
Fashion Washington
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
 
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Terms of Service
 
 
 
Privacy Policy
 
 
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
 
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
 
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
 
 
Share on Twitter
 
 
Share on Google Plus
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
More Options
 
 
 
Share on Whatsapp
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Morning Mix
 
Church shooting suspect Dylann Roof captured amid hate crime investigation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
 
Print Article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
Robert Costa
, 
Lindsey Bever
, 
J. Freedom du Lac
 and 
Sari Horwitz
 
June 18
 
 
Follow @costareports
 
Follow @lindseybever
 
Follow @jfdulac
 
Follow @sarihorwitz
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dylann Roof, 20, who is suspected of killing nine people at a historic African American church in Charleston, S.C., was moved from a jail in Shelby, N.C., where he was arrested. (Reuters)
 
 
 
 
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Dylann Roof, who police say opened fire and killed nine people during a prayer meeting at a historic African American church here, was arrested Thursday, more than 13 hours after the chilling attack.
 
Roof, a 21-year-old high-school dropout from Eastover, S.C., was taken into custody in North Carolina not long after law enforcement officials identified him as the sole suspect in the Wednesday night massacre, 
the deadliest attack on a place of worship
 in the United States in 24 years.
 
The oldest victim was 87; the youngest was 26. They included a library manager, a track and field coach and a state senator, Clementa Pinckney, who also served as senior pastor at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, where the shooting occurred.
 
Federal law enforcement officials said Roof, who is white, declared his hatred for black people before opening fire, and the U.S. Justice Department has said it is investigating the attack as a hate crime.
 
Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen said Roof was arrested during a traffic stop in Shelby, N.C., at around 11 a.m. Mullen said Roof “was cooperative with the officer who stopped him” in Shelby, about 250 miles by road northwest of Charleston.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 of 53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full Screen
 
Autoplay
 
 
Close
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skip Ad
 
 
 
×
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shooting at historic African American church in South Carolina
 
 
 
 
 
 
View Photos
 
 
 
Officials said nine people were killed and others injured by a gunman at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston.
 
 
 
 
Caption
 
 
 
Officials said nine people were killed and others injured by a gunman at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston.
 
 
June 19, 2015
 
In this image from video, suspect Dylann Roof appears by closed-circuit televison at his bond hearing in Charleston, S.C.
 
Pool/Reuters
 
 
Buy Photo
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wait 1 second to continue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“In America, you know, we don’t let bad people like this get away with these dastardly deeds,” Charleston Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. (D) said at a news briefing. The longtime mayor said Roof — “an awful person” — “is now in custody, where he will always remain.”
 
Roof waived extradition from North Carolina. After his arrest, he boarded a small plane bound for South Carolina, 
according to local television affiliates
.
 
The attack began about an hour after the white assailant entered one of the nation’s oldest African American churches and observed the Wednesday-night gathering, authorities said. Six women and three men were killed and at least one other person was injured in the shooting at Emanuel AME, a black landmark in the the birthplace of the Confederacy.
 
“We believe this is a hate crime; that is how we are investigating it,” Mullen said.
 
[
For church, 200 years of tragedy and revival
]
 
“Any death of this sort is a tragedy; any shooting involving multiple victims is a tragedy,” President Obama said at the White House. “There is something particularly heartbreaking about a death happening in a place in which we seek solace and we seek peace, in a place of worship.”
 
 
 
 
 
Following the deadly shooting in Charleston, S.C., President Obama said Americans will have to "come to grips" with the frequency with which gun violence happens in the U.S. as compared to other countries. (AP)
 
 
 
 
Although he acknowledged that many facts are not yet known, the president also said that insufficient gun laws were partially to blame. “Once again innocent people were killed because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hands on a gun,” he said.
 
“Now is the time for mourning and for healing,” the president added. “But let’s be clear: At some point we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries.”
 
It was 
the deadliest attack on a U.S. house of worship
 since 1991, when nine people were killed at the Wat Promkunaram temple near Phoenix. Johnathan Doody, tried three times for the execution-style murders at the Buddhist temple, was sentenced in 2014 to 249 years in prison.
 
Carl Chinn, who runs what is considered to be the most extensive database on violence at houses of worship, said Wednesday’s shooting was “certainly one of, if not the most, vicious attacks I’ve seen at a faith-based organization,” said
 
 
 
 
 
Attorney General Loretta Lynch (AP)
 
 
 
 
“Acts like this one have no place in our country and no place in a civil society,” Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch said Thursday as she vowed to bring the perpetrator to justice.
 
Agents were continuing to interview witnesses, including one woman who survived the slaughter. Roof allegedly released her, one law enforcement official said, so she could tell others what had happened.
 
According to federal law enforcement officials, the gunman made racist comments before he started shooting inside the church.
 
Roof sat in the back of the room for about an hour, these officials said, and some people at the church encouraged him to join the discussion. Before he began firing a semiautomatic handgun, Roof said something that the officials described as hateful racial epithets.
 
Officials said that the gunshots were fired at close range, rather than a random spray of gunfire across the room.
 
Roof’s 
apparent Facebook profile photo
 carries a possible indicator of his worldview: The picture shows him skulking in the woods, wearing a jacket with at least two conspicuous patches. The patches, as the Southern Poverty Law Center 
quickly noted
, are the old flags of racist, white-minority regimes in southern Africa.
 
[
In photo, suspected Charleston shooter wears flags of racist regimes
]
 
Roof lived about 15 miles southeast of Columbia, the state capital, in Eastover, court records show. He was arrested twice earlier this year, once on a drug charge and later for trespassing, records show. Both arrests occurred near Columbia.
 
He was found guilty of trespassing, but the drug charge was still pending. He was fined $262.50, which he elected to pay off in installments.
 
 
 
 
 
A day after nine people were killed at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., people gathered at Morris Brown AME Church for a midday prayer service. (The Washington Post)
 
 
 
 
“We woke up today and the heart and soul of South Carolina was broken,” Gov. Nikki Haley said after Roof’s capture. “So we have some grieving to do. And we have some pain to go through. Parents are having to explain to their kids how they can go to church and feel safe, and that’s not something we ever thought we’d have to deal with.”
 
[
Remembering the Charleston church shooting victims
]
 
Charleston County Coroner Rae H. Wooten identified the victims by name and age Thursday afternoon, though she did not immediately provide spellings or other personal information.
 
Rev. Clementa Pinckney, 41, was the church’s pastor and a South Carolina state senator. Depayne Middleton Doctor, 49, 
sang in the church choir
, the Charleston newspaper reported.
 
Ethel Lance, 70, worked for 30 years at the church, a relative 
told the Post and Courier
. Susie Jackson, 87, a longtime church member, was Lance’s cousin, the newspaper reported.
 
Cynthia Hurd, 54, was branch manager of the St. Andrews Regional Library, just a few miles from the church where she was killed. Tywanza Sanders, 26, was a 2014 graduate of Charleston’s Allen University.
 
Rev. Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45, was a church pastor and high school track and field coach, according to the Post and Courier.
 
Myra Thompson, 59, was an active member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, 
according to the Greenville News
. Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., 74, who died at a hospital, was a retired pastor from another Charleston church, 
ABC News reported
.
 
“Hate has once again been let loose in an American community,” Vice President Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, said in a statement. “And the senseless actions of a coward have once again cut short so many lives with so much promise.”
 
Biden, who had seen Pinckney last year at a prayer breakfast in Columbia, called the shooting an “act of pure evil and hatred.”
 
[
Clementa Pinckney remembered for calls for justice
]
 
Long before the victims’ identities were confirmed, Emanuel AME members, faith leaders and state politicians feared the worst about Pinckney. Indeed, soon after the attack, the pastor’s friends and colleagues began expressing their condolences on social media.
 
“My friend and brother in Christ Senator Clementa Pinckney was shot to death in the senseless tragedy that occurred in Emanuel AME Church in Charleston,” Larry Grooms, a state senator, 
wrote on Facebook
. “My heart breaks for the loss of Sen. Pinckney, the other victims and for their families. Now is the time for prayer. Let us all unite our hearts in prayer and ask God for His Grace, Love and Mercy.”
 
 
 
Rest in peace my friend Sen. Rev.Clementa Pinckney when the name of the church dawned on me I tried calling Clementa 
pic.twitter.com/bcDlH6CHh7
 
— Samuel Rivers Jr (@SamuelRivers) 
June 18, 2015
 
 
Pictures from the South Carolina State House showed a black cloth draped at Pinckney’s seat Thursday.
 
 
 
Sen. Clementa Pinckney's desk in the state Senate chamber is covered in a black drape, with a single rose. 
pic.twitter.com/tkH6NljOHy
 
— Robert Kittle (@RobertKittle) 
June 18, 2015
 
 
Police have not provided many details about the circumstances of Roof’s arrest, but Mullen, the Charleston police chief, said the traffic stop began when a citizen reported something suspicious to law enforcement. That tip prompted police to stop the car in Shelby.
 
Mullen also said that it did not appear in the aftermath of Roof’s arrest that other people participated in the shooting. “We don’t have any reason to believe that anybody else was involved,” he said.
 
[
Graphics: Charleston and previous mass shootings
]
 
Roof remained in Shelby for nearly an hour after his arrest. Mullen declined to discuss many details of the investigation and would not answer a question about whether Roof admitted guilt in the shooting.
 
Police said the victims were gathered in the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, also known as “Mother Emanuel,” for a prayer meeting Wednesday when the shooting occurred. The congregation, established in 1816, is one of the oldest African American churches in the United States.
 
[
For Charleston’s Emanuel AME church, shooting is another painful chapter in long history
]
 
“This is the most unspeakable and heartbreaking tragedy in historic Emanuel AME church, the mother church of the AME churches,” said Riley, the mayor. “People in prayer Wednesday evening, a ritual coming together, praying and worshiping God. To have an awful person come in and shoot them is inexplicable. Obviously the most intolerable and unbelievable act possible.”
 
“The only reason someone could walk into a church and shoot people praying is out of hate,” Riley continued. “The only reason. It is the most dastardly act that one could possibly imagine.”
 
 
 
 
 
In this clip from an unreleased documentary about African Methodism in South Carolina, Rev. Clementa Pinckney and others discuss the role of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. (Rev. Mark Kelly Tyler)
 
 
 
 
Police said the shooting occurred at about 9 p.m. at the historic church, which is located between Henrietta and Calhoun streets near Marion Square in downtown Charleston. Emergency dispatchers received a call at about 9:05 p.m., police said, and units were immediately dispatched to the church.
 
When officers arrived, they determined that eight people had been killed inside the church, Mullen said. A ninth person was taken to a nearby hospital, where that person died, the police chief said. Police initially said a total of two people had been taken to the hospital, but clarified later that there was only one.
 
At a nearby Embassy Suites hotel, which was serving as an informal headquarters for church members in the hours after the shooting, people began sobbing and screaming as they learned details about what had happened. “It was a heartbreaking scene I have never witnessed in my life before,” Riley said.
 
The Rev. Norvel Goff, a presiding elder for the African Methodist Episcopal Church who was interviewed near the scene, said the gunman “walked in, from my understanding, not so much as a participant, but as a brief observer who then stood up and then started shooting.”
 
“It’s a very tragic situation,” Goff said. “Stressful. Grieving.”
 
Mullen told reporters that the person stayed with the group in the church for about an hour before opening fire.
 
“This tragedy that we’re addressing right now is undescribable,” the police chief said at a news conference early Thursday morning. “No one in this community will ever forget this night.”
 
 
 
This senseless tragedy at a place of worship-where we come together to laugh,love&rejoice in God's name-is despicable&can't be understood
 
— Tim Scott (@SenatorTimScott) 
June 18, 2015
 
 
[
Jeb Bush cancels events in Charleston due to church shooting
]
 
After the shooting, helicopters swarmed overhead and heavily armed police wearing bulletproof vests fanned out across the city to search for the gunman.
 
“This was a very chaotic scene when we arrived,” Mullen said. “We were tracking this individual with canines. We were making sure that he was not in the area to commit other crimes. As all this was going on, we received information that there might be a secondary explosive device in the scene.”
 
Taxi driver Sheila Seagers, 60, heard the news on the radio and parked her Lincoln Town Car blocks from the scene. She stayed for hours, lingering and chatting quietly with friends. She called her state of mind a “ball of confusion.”
 
“I keep thinking of that big, beautiful church,” she said.
 
“We don’t want trouble but we keeping getting trouble,” she added. “I hate to say it, but what’s next? I pray that when morning comes there will be peace.”
 
[
The stubborn persistence of American hate crime
]
 
Crisis chaplains 
rushed to the scene
 as people started circles to pray for the victims and their families.
 
“I had to come, couldn’t sit home and watch my community on television,” said 59-year-old Ken Battle, a retired member of the U.S. Air Force. “But I can’t make up my mind about what has happened here. Being here helps me make meaning out of it.”
 
 
 
 
 
A prayer circle formed following a shooting that left 9 dead at an historic African American church in Charleston, S.C. (Robert Costa and Nick Kirkpatrick/The Washington Post)
 
 
 
 
Johnny Brooks, 54, a retired electric worker, came with his wife. “Our backyard! Our city,” he said. “I am at a loss for words.”
 
[
11 essential facts about guns and mass shootings in the United States
]
 
At a subsequent news conference, Riley called the shooter a “horrible scoundrel” and said: “This is an unfathomable and unspeakable act by somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”
 
 
 
At a midday prayer service at Morris Brown AME Church on Thursday, the congregation burst into sustained applause when Rev. Goff, the presiding elder, said the suspect had been captured.
 
“Some of us haven’t been to bed yet,” Goff said. “But good folk can’t go to sleep when evil is trying to come in.”
 
This story has been updated numerous times. It previously stated that victim Cynthia Hurd was 31, which is incorrect. Bever, Horwitz and du Lac reported from Washington, where Mark Berman, Jose A. DelReal, William Wan, Thad Moore, Ishaan Tharoor, Sarah Pulliam Bailey, Elahe Izadi, Sarah Kaplan, David A. Farhenthold and Brian Murphy also contributed reporting. Anne Gearan contributed from Charleston. 
 
 
Robert Costa is a national political reporter at The Washington Post.
Lindsey Bever is a national news reporter for The Washington Post. She writes for the Morning Mix news blog. Tweet her: 
@lindseybever
J. Freedom du Lac is the editor of The Post's general assignment news desk. He was previously a Local enterprise reporter and, before that, the paper’s pop music critic.
Sari Horwitz covers the Justice Department and criminal justice issues nationwide for The Washington Post, where she has been a reporter for 30 years.
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details. 
 You might also like:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Twitter
Tweet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
✕
 
Thank you for signing up
 
You'll receive e-mail when new stories are published in this series.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Read
 National
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
The incredible life and haunting death of world traveler Harry Devert
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
The ‘saddest bride I have ever seen': Child marriage is as popular as ever in Bangladesh
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
The ‘self-fulfilling prophecy’ of stereotyping Asian American students
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
Videos deceptively edited, Planned Parenthood tells Congress
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
A frenzy in Poland over the latest mysterious ‘Nazi gold train’
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Most 
Popular All Over
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Atlantic
 
 
 
 
The Coddling of the American Mind
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TIME
 
 
 
 
North Carolina Cop Will Not Face Retrial for Fatal Shooting of Black Man
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christian Science Monitor
 
 
 
 
Butterflies in space? Hubble beams back specular image of iridescent 'wings'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Slate
 
 
 
 
The Story Behind the One-Pan, Nine-Minute Pasta Recipe That Took Over the Internet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Insider
 
 
 
 
A financial planner ranks your debts from most to least urgent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fast Company
 
 
 
 
Google's Secret Strategy To Recruit Engineers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutsche Welle
 
 
 
 
Approach of tropical storm Erika puts Florida in state of emergency
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Hill
 
 
 
 
Pollsters dumbfounded by Trump
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salon
 
 
 
 
The GOP's nuclear option for Donald Trump: Why the only way to beat him is so scary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fusion
 
 
 
 
Jorge Ramos to Megyn Kelly on Trump: ‘He tried to silence me'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NY Magazine
 
 
 
 
If These Girls Knew That Slender Man Was a Fantasy, Why Did They Want to Kill Their Friend for Him?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grist
 
 
 
 
Hey, Burning Man: Your desert party sucks for the rest of us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WBUR (Boston)
 
 
 
 
A Recipe For Longevity? Beans, Friends, Purpose And Movement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Baltimore Sun
 
 
 
 
Maryland state superintendent resigns for new job
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Journal Sentinel (Milwaukee)
 
 
 
 
Stevie Ray Vaughan's legend lives on 25 years after death
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Denver Post
 
 
 
 
Police locate semi that hit four bridges on I-25 in Denver
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honolulu Star Advertiser
 
 
 
 
Ignacio on track to pass near Hawaii; Jimena also a hurricane
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Business Times
 
 
 
 
Prosecco: Everything you need to know about the UK's favourite sparkling wine
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Most
 Popular stories around the web 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
© 1996-2015 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Help and Contact Us
 
Terms of Service
 
Privacy Policy
 
Print Products Terms of Sale
 
Digital Products Terms of Sale
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Next Story
Former MIT lecturer who robbed a bank in the name of art pleads guilty to burglary
Justin Wm. Moyer
 · 
June 18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
Every story. Every feature. Every insight.
 
Yours for as low as JUST 99¢!
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
national
 
 
morning-mix
 
 
 
The Washington Post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorrect email
 
 
 
 
Not Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To keep reading, please enter your email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
 You’ll also receive from The Washington Post: 
 
A 
free
 6-week digital subscription
Our daily newsletter in your inbox
 
 
 
 
 
Please enter a valid email address
 
 
 
 
I have read and agree to the 
Terms of Service
 and 
Privacy Policy
. 
Please indicate agreement.
 
 
 Already a subscriber?  
Sign in
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Check your inbox. We’ve sent an email explaining how to set up an account and activate your free digital subscription. 
 
 
Return to Article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 