9 dead in church shooting in South Carolina; suspect still at large | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 


9 dead in church shooting in South Carolina; suspect still at large | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV














Go
Search
















 Replay: 
PIX11 News 



PIX11 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV




 
Menu




NEWS


Local


Morning


Sports


PIX Team


Contests


Traffic


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
69°


High 
82°












Sat





					71° 
 86°
					






Sun





					74° 
 91°
					






Mon





					75° 
 92°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime




Posted 10:42 PM, June 17, 2015, by 
CNN
, 
Updated at 07:29pm, June 18, 2015
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
Email
Google
 
















CHARLESTON, S.C. — A white man walked into a historic African-American church in South Carolina and opened fire during a Bible study class, killing nine people Wednesday evening in what officials are investigating as a hate crime.


The suspected gunman was captured early Thursday, thanks to a tip from a vigilant woman on her way to work who followed the man’s car for some 35 miles until police arrived. Dylan Storm Roof, 21, is accused of opening fire inside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, the oldest AME church in the South.


“The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate,” Charleston Mayor Joe Riley said.


Eight churchgoers died at the scene; a ninth at a hospital, police said. Among them is the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, according to CNN affiliate WCSC.


Officials wouldn’t say how many people were at the Bible study during the shooting. There were survivors, said Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen, but he didn’t elaborate.


Historic significance


Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church has been a presence in Charleston since 1816, when African-American members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church formed their own congregation after a dispute over burial grounds.


It was burned to the ground at one point, but rebuilt. Throughout its history, it overcame obstacle after obstacle — destroyed by an earthquake, banned by the state. But its church members persevered, making it the largest African-American church in terms of seating space in Charleston today.


Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement.


The shooting was “obviously the most intolerable and unbelievable act possible,” the mayor said.


“People in prayer Wednesday evening. A ritual, a coming together, praying, worshiping God. An awful person to come in and shoot them is inexplicable,” Riley said.


Police received the first call around 9:05 p.m. Officers arrived to find several victims inside.


“It’s really bad. It’s a very bad scene,” local pastor Thomas Dixon said.


 


Sick to our stomachs’


The church sits in an area of Charleston densely packed with houses of worship and well-preserved old buildings.


The city, as several church leaders pointed out, is known as the “Holy City” for its tolerant attitude toward different denominations.


It was led by Pinckney, who was also a state senator. His death was reported by affiliate WCSC, who confirmed it through Elder James Johnson, the president of the Tri-County chapter of the National Action Network civil rights organization.


Recently, Pinckney backed a bill to make body cameras mandatory for all police officers in South Carolina. The legislation was in response to the death of Walter Scott, an unarmed black man killed by a police officer this year.


“Body cameras help to record what happens. It may not be the golden ticket, the golden egg, the end-all-fix-all, but it helps to paint a picture of what happens during a police stop,” Pinckney said in April.


Early Thursday morning, residents stood in circles, hands clasped and heads bowed, as they prayed.


“Like everybody out here, we’re sick to our stomachs that this could happen in a church,” said Rep. Dave Mack, a friend of the church’s pastor.


They called for justice, but also for calm. Theirs is a strong community, they said, and this incident wouldn’t tear them apart.


The president of the NAACP expressed his outrage over the shooting.


“There is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people engaged in the study of scripture,” Cornell William Brooks said.


Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush canceled a scheduled town hall in Charleston on Thursday because of the shooting.


“As the #Charleston police deem this horrific act a hate crime,” the King Center tweeted, “we pray vigorously that this person’s hate does not cultivate more hate.”






PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]






PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit






DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says






New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]












Related stories




Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community










Trademark and Copyright 2015 
Cable News Network
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Watch The CW Now!


See last night’s episodes now on The CW
















 




 






Popular








NBA great Darryl Dawkins has died at 58 years old








Video showing shootings of WDBJ crew posted under Bryce Williams Twitter, Facebook accounts








Reporter, photographer shot to death on air in Virginia








‘Dead’ teen ‘wakes up’ screaming, banging inside coffin; family smashes tomb
















 






Latest News








Calif. man bitten while taking selfie with rattlesnake








CEO of Ashley Madison parent company steps down after hack








WATCH IT: Sinkhole swallows 5 people in China is captured on video








How a 15-year-old changed his life, lost 165 pounds in one year












 


























News




South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville






News




Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened






News




Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’






News




Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm






News




Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter








 






News




Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source






News




Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church






News




Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre






News




Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting






News




Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings








 






News




How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC






News




Vigils held in Harlem to remember victims of South Carolina church shooting






News




Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 5,004 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com


















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







































