Investigation finished in police shooting in Cincinnati traffic stop | FOX2now.com 


Investigation finished in police shooting in Cincinnati traffic stop | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
FOX 2 News  



FOX 2 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














FOX2now.com




 
Menu




News


Links


AM Show


Sports


Traffic


Contests


STLMoms


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
66°


High 
84°












Sat





					65° 
 87°
					






Sun





					65° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 91°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Investigation finished in police shooting in Cincinnati traffic stop




Posted 6:05 am, July 23, 2015, by 
CNN Wires
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
 








The Cincinnati Police Department said Wednesday it has finished investigating the fatal shooting of an apparently unarmed black man by a University of Cincinnati police officer.


Officer Ray Tensing fatally shot Samuel Dubose, 43, on Sunday after a struggle at a traffic stop over a missing license tag, Cincinnati police said. Dubose was driving away when Tensing shot him in the head, police said.


Investigators will present the evidence to Hamilton County Prosecutor Joe Deters, who will decide if any criminal charges are warranted, according to a press release issued Wednesday. It’s not known when Deters will make a decision.


Local activists are complaining the killing is similar to police slayings of black men or youth in other cities, like Tamir Rice in Cleveland and Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri. Dubose was black and Tensing is white.


“These routine traffic stops turn fatal and are becoming a norm around the country,” said Brian Taylor, an activist with Black Lives Matter: Cincinnati, who attended a community meeting on the killing. “We’re at the end of our ropes.”


At a press conference Wednesday, Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley said city police will work with university police to update policies on use of force.


“As a general matter, a pullover related to a license plate should not in a normal course of events lead to lethal force and a death,” Cranley said. “And that clearly we should be trying to implement use of force policies to prevent that kind of outcome.”


According to the UCPD use of force procedure, campus officers “should not discharge a firearm at or from a moving vehicle except as the ultimate measure of self-defense or defense of another when the suspect is using deadly force.”


Tensing has been placed on administrative leave with pay, university police said. He gave his first statements to investigators on Tuesday, along with two other campus police officers who arrived as Tensing and Dubose started struggling, according to Michele Ralston, spokeswoman for the force.


Cincinnati police, who are handling the investigation, said Tensing saw Dubose driving without a front license plate around 6:30 p.m. Sunday and tried to pull him over. Dubose continued for about a mile from the campus before stopping the car, police said.


A struggle ensued


Tensing asked several times to see Dubose’s driver’s license, Cincinnati police said. Instead, police said, Dubose handed the officer a bottle of alcohol. Tensing asked Dubose to step out of the car, at which point a struggle ensued, police said.


“There was a struggle at the door with Mr. Dubose in the vehicle and the officer outside the vehicle, and the vehicle sped away,” Cincinnati police Lt. Col. James Whalen told reporters.


Tensing fired a single shot, hitting the driver in the head as he attempted to flee. Police said the car rolled about a block before crashing.


It appeared that Dubose did not have a weapon, police said.


Tensing has five years’ experience in law enforcement and has worked for the University of Cincinnati Police Department for more than a year.


A CNN records search showed that Dubose had more than 60 arrests. He was a father to 13 children, according to CNN affiliate WKRC-TV.


At a memorial gathering Monday, Dubose’s mother, Audrey, said her son was “full of love,” CNN affiliate WLWT-TV reported.


“Know that my son was not a violent person,” she said. “My son … he got stopped a lot but he never tried to fight.”


Samuel Dubose’s 9-year-old son, also named Samuel, told WKRC, “He was coming home that night and we had a projector so we were going to watch a movie on it but we didn’t get to do that … because he died.”


Dubose had an illness that made him “fragile” and “frail,” according to longtime friend Hadassah Homa, who spoke to WCPO.


“Sam has been sick for a while,” he said. “He did not have no fight in him. Nothing. He was just so weak.”


Tensing was wearing a body camera, police said. They also said they have received surveillance video from nearby buildings but have yet to view it. No dashboard camera video is available, police said.


Family demands body cam video


WKRC reported Dubose’s family rallied outside of the university’s police department Tuesday night demanding to see the video captured on Tensing’s body camera.


“Why can’t I see it? Why can’t I see it?” said 9-year-old Samuel, according to the affiliate.


Video of the incident will not be released until the investigation is over, according to Cincinnati City Manager Harry Black.


CNN filed a request to review the body camera video but was turned down Wednesday by Hamilton County Chief Assistant Prosecutor Julie K. Wilson. She said release of the video could jeopardize a fair trial in the future.


CNN obtained an evaluation of Tensing by the University of Cincinnati Police Department dated April 9, 2015, in which he scored a four out of five for appropriate use of his weapon per the department’s use of force continuum.


An evaluator commented that Tensing is “extremely knowledgeable with traffic laws and extremely proactive in that area; he has also demonstrated that he is able to control a situation and take over if necessary.”


Police officers with the University of Cincinnati receive the same training as city cops across the state, according to Ralston. Campus police officers have authority to investigate traffic offenses occurring outside university boundaries under a mutual assistance agreement with the city of Cincinnati.


“Our hearts grieve for his loss,” said Santa Ono, president of the University of Cincinnati.


“We also know that police officers risk their lives every day, and when their efforts to protect themselves and our community result in a death, it is a tragedy. No matter the circumstances, it is a time of unimaginable sadness for all involved,” Ono said.


By Ralph Ellis, Don Melvin and David Shortell








Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Watch FOX 2 Now!


Watch our newscasts from the comfort of your phone or computer 24/7.
















 




 






Popular








Suspect under arrest in Jamyla Bolden murder








3-year-old injured during shoot-out in north St. Louis








Suspected gunman kills self after killing journalists on air, police say








Reporter, photographer murdered after gunman opens fire during live shot
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








STLMoms: Shop for a Cause at Macy’s to benefit March of Dimes








Zip Rzeppa visits FOX 2








St. Louis Polo Charity Match to benefit the Endangered Wolf Center












 


























News




Ohio university cop indicted in shooting of Samuel Dubose






News




Police officer shoots unarmed man to death in Cincinnati traffic stop






News




University cop in Samuel DuBose shooting to appear in court






News




University cop in Samuel DuBose shooting pleads not guilty






News




Memphis police officer killed during traffic stop; one person in custody








 






News




St. Louis police use tear gas on demonstrators protesting fatal shooting






News




2 police officers shot dead in Mississippi; suspects in custody






News




Suspect fires shots at officer during traffic stop; manhunt underway






News




9 arrested during protests after police fatally shoot 18-year-old in north St. Louis






News




Slain police: Separated by thousands of miles, united by common dangers








 






News




Police officer dies after being shot during traffic stop






News




Police investigate Chicago cop’s Ferguson shooting comment






News




Protests follow acquittal of Cleveland police officer














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


iPhone & iPad App


iPhone Weather App










Facebook


Twitter


Email Alerts


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































