Garland shooting: Other cases involving Americans and Prophet Mohammed drawings | FOX2now.com 


Garland shooting: Other cases involving Americans and Prophet Mohammed drawings | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
FOX 2 News  



FOX 2 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














FOX2now.com




 
Menu




News


Links


AM Show


Sports


Traffic


Contests


STLMoms


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
66°


High 
84°












Sat





					65° 
 87°
					






Sun





					65° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 91°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Garland shooting: Other cases involving Americans and Prophet Mohammed drawings




Posted 6:40 am, May 4, 2015, by 
CNN Wires
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
 










 








×


Garland shooting: Other cases involving Americans and Prophet Mohammed drawings






 






Paris. Copenhagen. And now Garland, Texas.


The Dallas suburb may be the latest city where depictions of the Prophet Mohammed have been met with gunfire.


It’s still not clear who shot a security guard Sunday night at the “Muhammad Art Exhibit and Cartoon Contest” in Texas. And the motive remains unknown.


But the attack isn’t the United States’ first brush with sacrilege over the Prophet Mohammed. Americans have been on the giving and receiving end of death threats.


One cartoonist has been in hiding for four years. And several Americans have been arrested for plotting the death of others who they deem insulted Islam.


Here are some run-ins Americans have had with such depictions, which many Muslims consider blaspemous:


Molly Norris: Cartoonist in hiding 


No one really knows what Molly Norris’ name is now. She changed her identity and disappeared, at the suggestion of the FBI, after a slew of death threats for her cartoons featuring Mohammed four years ago.


Even the radical and influential cleric Anwar al-Awlaki — the American-born spokesman for al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula — said Norris was a “prime target” for execution.


Her controversy in April 2010 with a cartoon published online about an imaginary group called “Citizens Against Citizens Against Humor” that proposed an “Everybody Draw Mohammed Day.”


“I didn’t mean for my satirical poster to be taken seriously,” Norris told Seattle’s City Arts Magazine. “It became kind of an excuse for people to hate or be mean-spirited. I’m not mean-spirited.”


Norris’ cartoon inspired others to create pictures of the Prophet Mohammed on the Internet. More than 100,000 people signed up on a Facebook page. But competing sites that blasted the campaign also drew tens of thousands of followers.


“When she learned about the Facebook page that had the most vulgar cartoons you can imagine, she distanced herself immediately,” said Arsalan Bukhari, executive director for the Washington chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations.


“She realized this is the wrong thing to do, to deliberately insult a minority group.”


Norris made a short film about the experiences of American Muslim women who wear head scarves. She was trying to destroy stereotypes about Muslim women, he said.


It was too late, and the death threats too many.


Colleen LaRose: ‘Jihad Jane’ sentenced to 10 years


Pennsylvania resident and self-styled “Jihad Jane” Colleen LaRose pleaded guilty in 2011 to helping plot to kill Swedish cartoonist Lars Vilks. Vilks had drawn a cartoon of Mohammed with the body of a dog.


LaRose traveled to Europe and also followed Vilks online “in an effort to complete her task,” federal prosecutors said. She was sentenced last year to 10 years in prison for the plot to kill Volks.


She’s not alone. Over the past four years, at least three American citizens have been convicted in plots to murder Scandinavian cartoonists and journalists who they believed had insulted Islam, CNN National Security Analyst Peter Bergen said.


And two other Americans have also been convicted of inciting violent attacks against cartoonists in the States who they felt had insulted the Prophet Mohammed.


As for Vilks, he may have dodged one plot against his life. But he came much closer to danger in February.


That’s when a gunman stormed a Copenhagen cafe where Vilks and his supporters had gathered for a free speech forum. The attack killed one man and wounded three police officers were wounded.


Jamie Paulin Ramirez: Lured by ‘Jihad Jane’


Prosecutors said LaRose had emailed former Colorado resident Jamie Paulin Ramirez in 2009 inviting her to Europe and asking her to attend a “training camp.”


So Ramierez did. She pleaded guilty in 2011 on charges of conspiring to provide material support to a terrorist organization and was sentenced to eight years in prison.


David Headley: Chicagoan conspired to kill Danish cartoonists


David Headley had already played a critical role in the Mumbai terror attacks in 2008 that left 166 people dead.


But after furor over what he deemed blasphemous Danish cartoons, Headley turned his attention to the Jyllands-Posten newspaper.


Headley hatched a plan to take over the Jyllands-Posten building with multiple attackers using similar tactics to those used in Mumbai.


The plan involved beheading employees working at the newspaper and throwing their heads out the windows of the building, in an act guaranteed to get worldwide media coverage.


He was eventually arrested at Chicago’s O’Hare Airport in October 2009. He later pleaded guilty to the conspiracy and was sentenced to 35 years in prison.


Zachary Adam Chesse/ Threatened ‘South Park’ creators


Zachary Adam Chesser encouraged violent jihadists to attack writers of the animated TV series “South Park” for an episode that depicted the Prophet Mohammed in a bear suit.


He posted online messages that included the writers’ home addresses and urged online readers to “pay them a visit,” the documents said.


Chesser, who was born in the United States, converted to Islam in high school. In court, he also admitted that he tried to go to Somalia to join Al-Shabaab, an Islamic militant group that the United States considers a terrorist organization.




He was sentenced to 25 years in prison.


By Holly Yan






CNN national security analyst Peter Bergen and CNN’s Steve Almasy and Daniel Burke contributed to this report.










Filed in:
 
News
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














STL Moms!


A place for St. Louis moms to chat share and save.
















 




 






Popular








Suspect under arrest in Jamyla Bolden murder








3-year-old injured during shoot-out in north St. Louis








Suspected gunman kills self after killing journalists on air, police say








Reporter, photographer murdered after gunman opens fire during live shot
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








STLMoms: Shop for a Cause at Macy’s to benefit March of Dimes








Zip Rzeppa visits FOX 2








St. Louis Polo Charity Match to benefit the Endangered Wolf Center












 


























News




ISIS claims responsibility for Texas shooting, threatens more attacks






News




Mohammed cartoon event investigation continues






News




Mohammed cartoon contest shooting suspect linked himself to ISIS in tweets






News




Group posts billboards of Muhammad in St. Louis to support free speech






News




Hundreds expected outside Phoenix mosque at Mohammed cartoon contest








 






News




Man indicted for allegedly helping Mohammed cartoon contest attackers






News




#NotMyAmerica: Social media users debate tense Mohammed cartoon rally






News




Texas shooting: Despite ISIS claims, did terror group play a role?






News




Garland shooting: What we know about Elton Simpson and Nadir Soofi






News




Texas shooting: Who is Pamela Geller?








 






News




Two shot and killed at ‘Muhammad Art, Cartoon Contest’ in Texas






News




Garland shooting: What is the American Freedom Defense Initiative?






News




5 things to know for your New Day — Monday, May 4














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


iPhone & iPad App


iPhone Weather App










Facebook


Twitter


Email Alerts


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































