Texas shooting: Who is Pamela Geller? | FOX2now.com 


Texas shooting: Who is Pamela Geller? | FOX2now.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
FOX 2 News  



FOX 2 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














FOX2now.com




 
Menu




News


Links


AM Show


Sports


Traffic


Contests


STLMoms


Events










Weather 




77°
















77°






Low 
66°


High 
84°












Sat





					65° 
 87°
					






Sun





					65° 
 88°
					






Mon





					68° 
 91°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 
















Texas shooting: Who is Pamela Geller?




Posted 1:31 pm, May 4, 2015, by 
CNN Wires
, 
Updated at 01:34pm, May 4, 2015
 




Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
 










(CNN) – When two men opened fire outside a contest for Prophet Mohammed cartoons in a Dallas suburb Sunday night, Pamela Geller was the first to call it an attack on free speech.


“Civilized men can disagree,” Geller said Monday on CNN. “Savages will kill you when they disagree.”


Geller, a conservative blogger, is the president of the American Freedom Defense Initiative, which organized Sunday’s event in Garland, Texas.


The group includes subsidiary programs Stop the Islamization of America and Stop Islamization of Nations.


“Savagery” is how Geller often describes the actions of extremist followers of Islam.


While she is accused of Islamophobia, she insisted Monday on CNN that her criticisms are not intended for Muslims in general.


She publishes her own blog, Atlas Shrugs, and has written several books on freedom of speech and what she calls Islamization. Their titles, “Stop the Islamization of America” and “Freedom or Submission,” point strongly to her overall narrative.


In an interview with “New Day,” Geller told CNN’s Alisyn Camerota: “The jihad is raging.”


“I am anti-jihad. I am anti-Sharia,” Geller said, referring to Islamic law.


The Dutch keynote speaker at the Texas event, Geert Wilders, told attendees that Muslims don’t have humor.


“Our Judeo-Christian culture is far superior to the Islamic one,” Wilders said Sunday in Garland. “I can give you a million reasons. But here is an important one: We have humor and they don’t. … Islam does not allow free speech, because free speech shows how evil and wrong Islam is. And Islam does not allow humor, because humor shows how foolish and ridiculous it is.”


“He’s entitled to his opinion,” Geller told Camerota. “End of story. So what? So he said that. And frankly, what he said was true. There is no humor.”


Camerota read Geller a quote from Linda Sarsour, a New York City Muslim community leader who disagreed with Geller but supported her freedom to host the Garland event.


Pamela Geller can draw “any damn cartoon she wants and I defend her right to do so,” Sarsour told Dean Obeidallah for a column in the Daily Beast. “I have always fought for her right to be a bigot and I have the right to counter her bigotry with my own free speech.”


“This is a Muslim leader who is attacking me, insulting me, in — in ad hominem attacks, and isn’t that generous of her?” Geller said.


“The problem is that a group … attempted to open fire on a gathering of free speech. … No one is saying that there aren’t peaceful Muslims, but there is a problem in Islam, as illustrated last night. And anyone that addresses it gets attacked in this same way.”


Controversial subway ads


Geller and the American Freedom Defense Initiative were behind a campaign to place a controversial advertisement series in New York City’s subways. The ads went up on the heels of the September 11, 2012 deadly attack on an American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, which killed the U.S. ambassador to Libya and three other Americans.


“In any war between the civilized man and the savage, support the civilized man. Support Israel. Defeat jihad,” the ad read.


“We don’t think it’s controversial,” Geller told CNN in 2012.


The ads were initially rejected by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Geller’s organization sued, and a federal judge ruled that the ad was protected speech under the First Amendment.


Critics called the ad hateful, but Geller called the legal win a “triumph.”


“There’s no ‘Islam’ in the ad or ‘Muslim’ in the ad,” Geller told CNN’s “Erin Burnett Outfront.”


Jihad — Arabic for “struggle” — is considered a religious duty for Muslims, although there are peaceful and violent interpretations of what it means.


In the 2012 interview with CNN, Geller cited “increasing sharia” and a growing fear of blasphemy laws.


Started blogging after 9/11


Geller, a frequent guest on TV and radio news and commentator programs, is a veteran of the media and publishing industry. She got her start in publishing at The New York Daily News, and went on to become associate publisher of The New York Observer.


According to a 2010 New York Times profile, Geller’s catalyst to blogging came after 9/11. Her blog hits increased the more she tackled extreme Islam.


She eventually fell in with the English Defence League, a far-right British organization that pushes an anti-Islamic message. Critics point to her association with the group to suggest that she’s more radical than she claims.


Geller co-founded the American Freedom Defense Initiative in 2010.


Geller played a key role in pushing the so-called “Ground Zero mosque” debate into the national lexicon. Her group planned rallies against a proposed mosque and community center — with Geller at the helm.


Critics consistently slam her as anti-Muslim — a claim she denies. The Anti-Defamation League, in a statement condemning Sunday’s “attempted violent attack,” described the event as being organized by “anti-Muslim activist Pamela Geller.” And the ADL said Wilders has “advanced a conspiratorial anti-Muslim agenda for many years.”






By Ann Colwell, CNN


™ & © 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.










Trademark and Copyright 2015 
Cable News Network
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
News
 
Topics:
 
national news
, 
pamela geller
 










×


Report a Typo












Name
(required)








Typo
(required)


















 




Cancel




























 














Events Calendar


See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.
















 




 






Popular








Suspect under arrest in Jamyla Bolden murder








3-year-old injured during shoot-out in north St. Louis








Suspected gunman kills self after killing journalists on air, police say








Reporter, photographer murdered after gunman opens fire during live shot
















 






Latest News








One man’s poop is another’s medicine








STLMoms: Shop for a Cause at Macy’s to benefit March of Dimes








Zip Rzeppa visits FOX 2








St. Louis Polo Charity Match to benefit the Endangered Wolf Center












 


























News




Garland shooting: What is the American Freedom Defense Initiative?






News




Hundreds expected outside Phoenix mosque at Mohammed cartoon contest






News




Two shot and killed at ‘Muhammad Art, Cartoon Contest’ in Texas






News




Mohammed cartoon event investigation continues






News




#NotMyAmerica: Social media users debate tense Mohammed cartoon rally








 






News




Authorities arrest Nicholas Rovinski, a suspect in Boston terror case






News




Mohammed cartoon contest shooting suspect linked himself to ISIS in tweets






News




Garland shooting: Other cases involving Americans and Prophet Mohammed drawings






News




5 things to know for your New Day — Monday, May 4






News




Police seek third person in Usaamah Rahim’s Boston terror plot








 






News




Suspected gunman kills self after killing journalists on air, police say






News




ISIS claims responsibility for Texas shooting, threatens more attacks






News




Boston terror suspect’s shooting: What we know and don’t know














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


iPhone & iPad App


iPhone Weather App










Facebook


Twitter


Email Alerts


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts












































































Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





































