Titusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victimsTitusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victims
SUBSCRIBE NOW
to get full access
Home
News
Sports
Space
Life
Entertainment
Travel
Opinions
Obituaries
Insider
USA TODAY
Media
More
Home
News
Sports
Space
Life
Entertainment
Travel
Opinions
Obituaries
Insider
USA TODAY
Media
Follow
Search
Firefly
Hi 
Already a subscriber? 
Log in
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Subscribe Now
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.
Manage your account settings.
My Account
View the E-Newspaper
Manage your Newsletters
View your Insider deals and more
Member ID Card
Log Out
Get the news
Log In or Subscribe to skip
Already a subscriber?
Log in
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Subscribe Now
Already a subscriber, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.

                            289
                        

                            4
                        
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Facebook
Email
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Titusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victims
A Titusville church will hold a special prayer vigil tonight for the victims of an overnight church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina.
Post to Facebook
Titusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victims  A Titusville church will hold a special prayer vigil tonight for the victims of an overnight church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina.   Check out this story on floridatoday.com: http://on.flatoday.com/1Lhdxwi

                    {#
                    

                    #}
                
Cancel
Send
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

                            2
                        
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the 
Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Subscribe Today
Log In
Subscribed, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.
Titusville church to hold vigil for Charleston victims
 J.D. Gallop
, FLORIDA TODAY 
1 p.m. EDT June 18, 2015

    Chief Gregory Mullen emphasized his department's commitment to catching the man suspected of killing nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston. Police confirm they currently do not know where the suspect is.
    
WLTX TV
Worshippers embrace following a group prayer across the street from the scene of a shooting at Emanuel AME Church, Wednesday, June 17, 2015, in Charleston, S.C.
(Photo: David Goldman, AP)
Faith leaders from several Space Coast denominations will hold a special prayer vigil for the victims of an 
overnight church shooting
 that left nine people – including a state senator and church pastor – dead.
The vigil comes after Dylan Storm Roof, 21, allegedly carried out the attack at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, one of the oldest African-American congregations in the South. Police have labeled the targeted shooting a hate crime.
Glenn Dames, pastor of St. James AME Church in Titusville, knew pastor and South Carolina State Senator Clementa Pinckney, who was killed in the shooting.
Pinckney, 41, was listed among nine victims shot and killed by the gunman during the Wednesday night bible study.
FLORIDA TODAY
9 dead in shooting at black church in Charleston, S.C.
"This has been a difficult night for us…I knew (Pinckney)," Dames told FLORIDA TODAY. "I've been to Emanuel. As a pastor, I know the pain of seeing something like this happen. We believe that in the end, love will conquer hate as difficult as it is to wrap our heads around that right now."
The prayer vigil will take place at 7 p.m. tonight at St. James AME Church, 625 Dummitt Ave. in Titusville. The congregation has in the past hosted several community prayer sessions and talks over issues ranging from the 2012 controversial shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in neighboring Sanford to the recent spate of protests over police tactics.
"In times like these, we need an anchor…and that Rock is Jesus," he said between fielding calls from other pastors and church members.
Other pastors were stunned by the killings and called for the faith community to continue building inroads together.
"My God, when is this going to end," asked Father Rob Goodridge of St. Gabriel Episcopal Church in Titsuville. "The only way any of this will be resolved is if we develop relationships with each other. I just don't understand it. There's an uptick of this kind of (violence) not just in our country but around the world. But when you look at things and if it's not good, it's not from God. It's from something else," he said, adding that more prayer is needed.
Read or Share this story: http://on.flatoday.com/1Lhdxwi