South Carolina Church Shooting: Downtown Charleston Shooting Leaves At Least 9 Dead

South Carolina Church Shooting: Downtown Charleston Shooting Leaves At Least 9 Dead






Jump to Navigation
























Friday, August 28, 2015 As of 12:17 PM EDT






Subscribe




US Edition


Australia Edition


China Edition


India Edition


Italy Edition


Japan Edition


U.K. Edition


U.S. Edition








FOLLOW


| Make IBT your homepage




















 
















Search 










 
Home


Politics


Economy


Markets / Finance


Companies


Technology


Media & Culture


Sports


Video


 
























 




















Politics
 














South Carolina Church Shooting: Downtown Charleston Shooting Leaves At Least 9 Dead



      By   


Lora Moftah
 


@LoraMoftah
 
l.moftah@ibtimes.com
 




on 
June 17 2015 11:07 PM EDT






0


0


0








0






























 











            A small prayer circle forms nearby where police are responding to a shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina June 17, 2015. A gunman opened fire on Wednesday evening at the historic African-American church in downtown Charleston and was still at large, a U.S. police official said. At least nine people are confirmed dead.           



            Reuters/Randall Hill          




















 











            A shooting attack on June 17, 2015, at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, killed nine people. In this photo, members of the church choir sing during the church's Watch Night service on Dec. 31, 2012.          



            Reuters/Randall Hill          














Previous




1

          of
          
2




Next










Update as of 1:13 a.m. EDT: 
Charleston, South Carolina police officials will investigate Wednesday night's church shootings, which left nine people dead, as a hate crime, according to reports.


The shooting attack also reportedly killed State Sen. Clementa Pinckney, a Democratic member of the state's senate, NBC News reported, citing sources. Police are looking for a white man, aged about 21, reports said, citing officials. 


"This is a tragedy that no community should have to experience … It is senseless, unfathomable," police chief Greg Mullen reportedly said, according to the Guardian, adding: "We are going to do everything in our power to find this individual, to lock him up, to make sure he does not hurt anyone else."


Update as of 12:58 a.m. EDT: 
Nine people are confirmed dead so far in the shootings at a South Carolina church, the Guardian reported, citing Charleston police chief Greg Mullen and Mayor Joe Riley. 


While eight were killed in the attack at the church, one died at a hospital later, the report added. Officials are currently looking for only one suspect in the shootings, which Riley described it as an “unspeakable tragedy” while speaking to the media, the report said.


A reward will be announced Thursday for information leading to the suspect's capture, Mullen reportedly said.


Update as of 11:40 a.m. EDT:
 Joe Riley, mayor of Charleston, South Carolina, where a shooting took place at a church on Wednesday night, confirmed that there were fatalities, local media reported.


“We're still gathering information.... I will say that this is an unspeakable and heartbreaking tragedy in this most historic church, an evil and hateful person took the lives of citizens who had come to worship and pray together,” Riley said, according to a local news 
report
.


Police are reportedly searching for the suspect, identified as a 21-year-old white man with a slender build, and wearing a gray hoodie, blue jeans and Timberland boots. The Charleston Police Department said late Wednesday that there were no evacuation orders given out following a bomb threat report near the shooting scene.


Jeb Bush canceled his presidential campaign events, which were scheduled for Thursday in the city, due to the shooting.


South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley reportedly issued a statement, calling the shooting a "senseless tragedy."


"While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we’ll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another," Haley said, in the statement, the Guardian 
reported
.


Original story:


Police in South Carolina responded to reports of a shooting at a downtown Charleston church Wednesday night, with reports on social media 
indicating
 that at least eight people were killed.


The Charleston police department confirmed that its officers were responding to a shooting in a post on Twitter, without providing any immediate information on potential victims.


The shooting occurred about 9 pm @ 110 Calhoun St. No info yet on victims.


— Charleston P.D. (@CharlestonPD) 
June 18, 2015


The shooting occurred at around 9 p.m. at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, ABC News 
reported
. Police were said to be searching for a 21-year-old white man with a slender build wearing a gray hoodie, blue jeans and Timberland boots.


Social media reports from the scene appeared to show victims being transported by emergency responders.


Breaking: 
@CharlestonPD
 confirm shooting unclear officially how many hurt. Saw 1 transported 
@ABCNews4
 
#chsnews
 
#chs
 
pic.twitter.com/Z445Jw6f6T


— Jason Tighe (@jtighe08) 
June 18, 2015


Video: Waiting for details on 
@CharlestonPD
 scene in downtown 
#chs
 
#chsnews
 
@ABCNews4
 
pic.twitter.com/vDvlFlM29n


— Jason Tighe (@jtighe08) 
June 18, 2015


Photos circulating on social media indicated that the police took a suspect matching the description into custody, however the Charleston police department has not confirmed those reports. 






























Submit Correction




0


0


0












 












Related






 








Dallas Police HQ Shooting Suspect Had Mental Health Issues
 




Iowa Mall Shooting Suspect Faces Murder Charge
 






















 










 
















 












Join the Discussion






 


















 










0


0


0










 




























  
	    	  IBTIMES TV  
		






























Pres. Carter's Reaction To His Cancer Diagnosis




August 20 2015 3:00 PM EDT
0:59


























 














Search 










 














 
















 











      Latest News    








 




Politics
 




Global Market Volatility Making Investors Uneasy: Report
 








 




Politics
 




Tropical Storm Erika Kills 25 In Dominica, Puerto Rico Braces Itself
 








 




Politics
 




Venezuelan Default Fears Rise Again
 








 




Politics
 




3 Arrested Over Deaths Of 71 Migrants In Austria
 






 
















 












Most Read


Most Shared






 


 







              1            




The Not-So-Old Farmer's Almanac
 








6k
 Shares
            























              2            




Donald Trump Mocks Asians With Broken-English Accent During Campaign Rally In Iowa [VIDEO]
 








5.5k
 Shares
            























              3            




National Women's Equality Day: 13 Inspiring Quotes From Famous Females On 19th Amendment Anniversary
 








4.7k
 Shares
            























              4            




National Dog Day 2015: Quotes, Cute Pictures To Celebrate Man's Best Friend
 








3.2k
 Shares
            























              5            




Japan US Military Base Explosion: Multiple Blasts Reported At United States Army Facility In Sagamihara
 








3.1k
 Shares
            























              6            




Mississippi State University Shooting Suspect In Custody After Campus Lockdown: Reports
 








2.7k
 Shares
            























              7            




La Tomatina Festival 2015: Pictures, Video, Facts And History Of Spanish Tomato-Throwing Festival In Bunol, Valencia
 








600
 Shares
            




































Follow Us


























Please enter a valid email










Like us








Follow us








Join us








Full site feed






 








 




























Global Market Volatility Making Investors Uneasy: Report
 




Venezuelan Default Fears Rise Again
 




Russia To Revive Armored Trains
 




Watch Scott Walker's Foreign Policy Speech
 






 


NSA Phone Surveillance Ruling Reversed
 






 


Read Full Text Of MLK's 'I Have A Dream' Speech
 






More 
Politics






Africa


Asia Pacific


Europe






Middle East


The Americas


US




















Global Markets Calmer After Wild Week
 




Thailand's Worst Bombing Won't Hit Economy: Official
 




China Eases Rules On Foreigners Buying Property
 




Asian Stocks Continue Rebound
 






 


British Economy Unscathed -- So Far
 






 


Brazil's Economy Enters Recession
 






More 
Economy






Africa


Asia Pacific


Europe






Middle East


The Americas


US




















Asian Stocks Continue Rebound
 




Europe Stocks Fizzle After Early Gains
 




China Keeps Market Rout Off Front Pages
 




Asian Stocks Climb Again
 






 


George Bush Returns To A Struggling New Orleans
 






 


Fed Should Continue With Rate Hike: Official
 






More 
Markets / Finance






Commodities


ETF


Financial Services


Forex






Gold


Precious Metals


Market Data




















Tesla Shares Rally On Stellar Model S P85D Review
 




Ohio BP Charges Less Than $1 For Gas
 




Google Refutes European Union Antitrust Claims
 




A US Steel Town Feels China's Woes
 






 


China Eases Rules On Foreigners Buying Property
 






 


McDonald's, Tyson Cut Ties With Farm Over Animal Abuse
 






More 
Companies






Autos


Basic Materials


Energy


Manufacturing






Real Estate


Transportation


Retail/Consumer Goods




















Apple Phone Support Wait Times Up
 




Dendroid Malware Creator Pleads Guilty, Faces 20 Years 
 




Android Users Continue Dominance On WhatsApp
 




Brain Scans Can Predict Antipsychotics' Effectiveness: Study
 






 


9 Things To Expect For The iPhone 6S
 






 


Ashley Madison CEO Resigns 
 






More 
Technology






Companies


Mobile


Computers


Games






Internet


Social Media


Science




















2015 MTV Video Music Awards Nominees Refresher 
 




Read Full Text Of MLK's 'I Have A Dream' Speech
 




Justin Bieber Releases New Single 'What Do You Mean?' On Spotify [LISTEN]
 




'Mistresses' Season 3 Finale Synopsis Revealed
 






 


Remembering Princess Diana, Prince Charles' Divorce 19 Years Later
 






 


Josh Duggar's Family 'Furious' By Ashley Madison Scandal: Report
 






More 
Media & Culture






Art


Books


Education


Entertainment






Industry News


People


Travel




















Mourinho Targets Everton's Stones
 




India With Chance For Series Win
 




Djokovic, Williams Lead US Open Packs
 






 


Arsenal Face Defensive Injury Doubts
 






 


Pats Still Await Brady Decision
 






More 
Sports






NFL


MLB


NBA


NHL






Tennis


Golf


Soccer


Super Bowl




















Of Men And Lions: Why Cecil Is A Story
 




Sean 'Diddy' Combs Takes Tumble At BET Awards
 




'Game Of Thrones' Review: Thrilling Finale Caps Disappointing Season
 




How Snowden Changed America
 






 


Why Entertainment Writers Are Taking A Break From The Kardashians
 






 


'Fantastic Four' Cut One Scene That Might Have Saved The Movie
 






More 
Opinion






Analysis


Fighting Words






SportsNet


















 


Samsung Galaxy Note 5 VS Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge Plus
 






 


OnePlus2 Review: The Sequel to the Invite-Only Smartphone
 






 


Pebble's Newest Smartwatch Goes Old-School
 






 


Fitbit And Jawbone Continue To Fight It Out For Market Share
 






 


HTC's Newest Phone Relies On Old Innovations
 






 


New Mustang Sets The Standard
 
























































Enter to win an Apple Watch




International Business Times is giving away an Apple Watch. No purchase required.








 I agree to the 
terms and conditions






Close terms and conditions




IBT MEDIA E-MAIL ADDRESS MONTHLY GIVEAWAY (“Giveaway”)
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
NO PURCHASE OR PAYMENT NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN
. A PURCHASE OR PAYMENT WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. The Giveaway is sponsored by IBT Media Inc., 7 Hanover Square, 5
th
 Floor, New York, NY 10004 (“Sponsor”). The Giveaway is void where prohibited or restricted by all applicable law, and all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations apply.  Winners are responsible for any taxes, customs, and duties and like amounts connected with the prizes.
1.  
ELIGIBILITY
. The Giveaway is open only to legal residents of the 50 states of the United States and the District of Columbia who are the age of majority in their respective jurisdiction at the time of entry (19 in AL and NE and 18 in all other states). Sponsor and its advertising or promotion agencies, those involved in the production, development, implementation or handling of this Giveaway, any agents acting for, or on behalf of Sponsor, its respective affiliates, subsidiaries, licensees, service providers, and any other person or entity associated with this Giveaway are referred to as the “Giveaway Entities.” Employees, officers, and directors of the Giveaway Entities and members of their immediate families (spouses, children, siblings, parents and their spouses), and/or persons living in the same household as such persons, whether or not related, are ineligible to enter this Giveaway.
2.  
PROMOTION ENTRY PERIOD
: The Giveaway begins on July 1, 2015 at 12:00 a.m. EST and ends at 11:59:59 p.m. September 31, 2015 (the “Giveaway Period”). When applicable, the Sponsor’s computers will be deemed the official time keeping devices for the Giveaway promotion.
3.  
HOW TO ENTER.
 You will receive one entry into the random drawing for the Giveaway Period when you provide a verified e-mail through our designated modal window interface. Limit one (1) entry per person/email address. Multiple entries will be disqualified. All previous winners of any giveaway or contest sponsored by IBT Media are not eligible to enter. Any effort by an entrant to misrepresent himself or herself through the use of aliases or multiple e-mail addresses will disqualify that entrant. Registrations generated by a script, macro or other automated means are void. You must be the rightful owner of the email address provided. In the event of a dispute as to the identity of the winner, the winner will be deemed to be the authorized account holder of the email address provided at the time of entry. Entrants must provide all information requested to be eligible to win. Incomplete or unintelligible entries, in the sole discretion of Sponsor, will be disqualified. Sponsor will not verify receipt of entries and assumes no responsibility for late, lost, damaged, misidentified or misdirected entries.
4.  
PRIZE DRAWINGS AND NOTIFICATION OF CHOSEN ENTRANTS
. A random drawing will be conducted by Sponsor on or about the first week following the Giveaway Period from among all eligible entries received to award one prize (described below). Selected entrants will be notified by email and will be required to respond (as directed) to the e-mail notification within 72 hours of attempted notification. Failure to respond timely to the notification may result in forfeiture of the prize. Selected entrants may also be required to complete an affidavit of eligibility and liability / publicity release (except where such a requirement is prohibited by law). If the completed Release is not returned within the time specified, the prize may be forfeited. 
One (1) Prize per Giveaway Period:
 An Apple Watch Sport™, which is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. Approximate Retail Value: $349. Limit one (1) prize per person/household. No substitution, transfer, or cash equivalent for any prize, except that Sponsor, at its sole discretion, may substitute a prize with a prize of equal value, due to unavailability of advertised prize. Each prize will be awarded provided each prize is properly claimed. The prize will be shipped by Sponsor to the winners within 1-5 weeks of the receipt of a signed affidavit for approved entries. Prize winners are responsible for all taxes and fees related to any prize received. Actual retail value of prizes may vary due to market conditions. The difference in value of prize as stated herein and value at time of prize notification, if any, will not be awarded.
5.  
ODDS.
 The odds of winning a prize will depend on the number of eligible entries received for the Giveaway Period.
6.  
MARKETING AND PRIVACY.
 Information collected in connection with entries received for this Giveaway will be used for marketing purposes. By entering the Giveaway, entrants consent to receive marketing emails with updates, offers and promotions from Sponsor or third parties. Entrants may follow instructions contained in each subsequent email communication to opt-out of receiving future email communications, however, Sponsor may still use the email address provided to notify entrant if they have been selected as a winner of this Giveaway. 
7.  
CONDITIONS FOR PARTICIPATION
. Giveaway is subject to these Official Rules. By participating, entrants agree to be bound by these complete Official Rules. All decisions of Sponsor are final and binding; and entrants agree to waive any right to claim ambiguity in the Giveaway or these Official Rules, except where prohibited by law. In addition, each entrant represents and warrants that all information contained in his/her registration entry is true and accurate. By accepting a prize, winners agree to release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Sponsor, its attorneys, affiliates, together with the respective directors, employees, officers, licensees, licensors and agents of each, including without limitation, their respective advertising and promotion entities and any person or entity associated with the production, judging, or administration of the Giveaway (collectively, the “Releasees”) from any and all loss, damage, injury, death, or other liability, either at law or equity, whether known or unknown, asserted or non-asserted, arising from or in connection with awarding, receipt and/or use or misuse of prize or participation in the Giveaway. This Promotion shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, regardless of conflicts of laws principles. Any action or litigation concerning this Promotion shall take place exclusively in the federal or state courts sitting in New York County, New York, and each entrant expressly and irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of and venue in such courts and waives all defenses of lack of jurisdiction and inconvenient forum with respect to such courts. Each entrant agrees to service of process by mail or other method acceptable under the laws of the State of New York. ANY CLAIMS, JUDGMENTS AND/OR AWARDS SHALL BE LIMITED TO ACTUAL OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH ENTERING THIS PROMOTION. REGISTERED CONTESTANT HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHTS OR CLAIMS TO ATTORNEY'S FEES, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ENTRANT, WHETHER FORESEEABLE OR NOT AND WHETHER BASED ON NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE. EACH PARTY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO A JURY. The releases hereunder are intended to apply to all claims not known or suspected to exist with the intent of waiving the effect of laws requiring the intent to release future unknown claims. This Giveaway is void outside the U.S. and where prohibited or restricted by law, and subject to applicable federal, state, and local laws. Sponsor reserves the right to disqualify any entrant it finds to be tampering with the entry process or the operation of the Giveaway or violating these Official Rules.
8.  
PUBLICITY AND RELEASE FORMS
: Sponsor reserves the right to use the Giveaway for publicity purposes in any media, and to use the name, likeness, and hometown name and/or prize information of prize winners as part of that publicity, without any compensation or prior review, unless prohibited by law. Each prize winner will be required to submit a declaration and a liability/publicity release and confirmation that the prize winner has followed the rules of the Giveaway, in the form supplied by Sponsor (the "Declaration and Release"), and signed by the prize winner. The Declaration and Release must be signed and returned within seven (7) days of notification. Prize won by an eligible entrant who is a minor in his/her state of residence will be awarded to minor's parent or legal guardian who must sign and return all required documents. In the event the Affidavit and Release is not returned within this period, an alternate winner may be selected for such prize. Any prize notification or prize returned to Sponsor as undeliverable will result in the awarding of that prize to an alternate winner (who will be required to comply with similar procedures).
9.  
LIMITATION OF LIABILITIES:
 The Releasees shall not be liable for: (i) late, lost, delayed, stolen, misdirected, incomplete unreadable, inaccurate, garbled or unintelligible entries, communications or affidavits, regardless of the method of transmission; (ii) telephone system, telephone or computer hardware, software or other technical or computer malfunctions, lost connections, disconnections, delays or transmission errors; (iii) data corruption, theft, destruction, unauthorized access to or alteration of entry or other materials; (iv) any injuries, losses or damages of any kind caused by the prize or resulting from acceptance, possession or use of a prize, or from participation in the Giveaway; or (v) any printing, typographical, administrative or technological errors in any materials associated with the Giveaway. In the event that more prize notice emails are sent for any of the prizes than the number of prizes available as specified in these Official Rules, a random drawing will be conducted from all entrants who received such notices to award number of prizes specified in these Official Rules. Sponsor disclaims any liability for damage to any computer system resulting from participating in, or accessing or downloading information in connection with this Giveaway, and reserve the right, in their sole discretion, to cancel, modify or suspend the Giveaway should a virus, bug, fraud, computer problem, unauthorized intervention or other causes beyond Sponsor’s control, corrupt the administration, security or proper play of the Giveaway. Sponsor may prohibit an entrant from participating in the Giveaway or winning a prize if, in its sole discretion, it determines such entrant is attempting to undermine the legitimate operation of the Giveaway in any way by cheating, hacking, deception, or any other unfair playing practices of intending to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any other players or Sponsor representatives. Use of any automated system to participate is strictly prohibited and will result in disqualification. Sponsor may disqualify at its sole discretion any entries it believes are created by an automated system or exceed the maximum of one entry per natural person/email address. Disputes regarding these Official Rules and/or this Giveaway will be governed by the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles. Any and all legal actions or claims arising in connection with this Giveaway must be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction within New York County, New York or, at Sponsor’s sole discretion, anywhere else in the United States. CAUTION: ANY ATTEMPT TO DELIBERATELY DAMAGE THE IBT MODAL WINDOW OR UNDERMINE THE LEGITIMATE OPERATION OF THE GIVEAWAY MAY BE IN VIOLATION OF CRIMINAL AND CIVIL LAWS AND WILL RESULT IN DISQUALIFICATION FROM PARTICIPATION IN THE GIVEAWAY. SHOULD SUCH AN ATTEMPT BE MADE, SPONSORS RESERVE THE RIGHT TO SEEK REMEDIES AND DAMAGES (INCLUDING ATTORNEY FEES) TO THE FULLEST EXTENT OF THE LAW, INCLUDING CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
10.   
PRIVACY
. Please refer to Sponsor’s privacy policy located at 
http://www.ibtimes.com/corporate/privacy
 for important information regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information by Sponsor.
11.   
WINNER LIST.
 For names of the winners, send your request in a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: The IBT Media Email Address Monthly Giveaway Winners List, 7 Hanover Square, 5
th
 Floor, New York, NY 10004. Winner lists will be sent out once winners have been verified. The name of the all winners will be posted only for 30 days after the end of the Entry Period.
BY ENTERING, YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND ACCEPTED ALL OF THESE GIVEAWAY RULES.
Apple is not a participant in or sponsor of this promotion.














Enter to win an Apple Watch




Your confirmation email has been sent.
Please check your inbox. 


Close




















































 












Sections


Home


Politics


Economy


Markets / Finance


Companies


Technology


Media & Culture


Sports


Video


 






Corporate
About Us


Leadership


Advertise with Us


Self-Serve Advertising


Media Kit


Contact


Careers


Terms of Service


Privacy


IBT Media


Press Releases


Syndication




Editions
Australia


China


India


Italy


Japan


U.K.


U.S.















      © Copyright 2015 
IBT Media Inc.
 All Rights Reserved.
    




















 




 

















