Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting | myfox8.com  


Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting | myfox8.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
4:00 p.m. News 



FOX8 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














myfox8.com




 
Menu




News


On-Air


Morning News


Sports


You Decide 2016


Lottery


Contests


Events










Weather 




85°
















85°






Low 
68°


High 
86°












Wed





					70° 
 87°
					






Thu





					70° 
 86°
					






Fri





					68° 
 82°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 








Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting




Posted 3:21 pm, June 26, 2015, by 
CNN Wire
, 
Updated at 04:03pm, June 26, 2015
 




Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
Reddit
Email
 














 






Please enable Javascript to watch this video




CHARLESTON, S.C. -- President Barack Obama on Friday eulogized the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, one of the victims in last week's church massacre, calling him a "man of God who lived by faith."


"We are here today to remember a man of God who lived by faith," Obama said. "A man who believed in things not seen. A man who believed there were better days ahead, off in the distance. A man of service who persevered knowing full well he would not receive all those things he was promised, because he believed his efforts would provide a better life for those who followed."


The president's remarks both memorialized the victims and touched upon the current controversy surrounding the Confederate flag and what he said was a need for more gun control in the wake of the tragedy.


"By taking down that flag we express God's grace," he said.


Obama finished his remarks by breaking into song, leading the assembled in a rendition of "Amazing Grace."


Friday's funeral service for Pinckney isn't the first time Obama delivered a high-profile eulogy, and with a year and a half remaining in office, it may not be the last.


But when the president stood in historic downtown Charleston to remember the slain pastor and eight others shot down in their church last week, his speech moved beyond just grief for the victims -- Obama stepped directly into a national conversation about race in which he plays a central role.


The president, first lady Michelle Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, a bipartisan host of high-level members of Congress and Hillary Clinton headed to TD Arena for the memorial service a week after a 21-year-old man opened fire at a Bible study inside Charleston's Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.


The shooter declared he was there to "kill black people," and an online manifesto attributed to him contained white supremacist screeds.


Obama, responding to the shooting hours into its aftermath, said the attack "raises questions about a dark part of our history" and called racism "a particular threat to our democracy and our ideals."


Later, speaking during a podcast interview, he candidly addressed new questions about American racism prompted by the attack, using the N-word to explain that suggestions the country has been "cured" of racism are misguided.


The shooting in Charleston left Obama "shaken," according to Rep. James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat who spoke with Obama the morning after the incident.


Unlike past times Obama has confronted an act of violence, he knew the highest profile victim of the Charleston shooting personally. Obama met Pinckney as an early supporter of his 2008 presidential bid. Biden met the pastor and state lawmaker less than a year ago at a prayer breakfast in the state capital.


That personal connection differentiated Friday's eulogy from the funerals Obama keynoted after previous shootings. So, too, are the renewed questions on race spurred by the shooter's apparent motivations.


Around the country, traditional symbols of the Confederacy have come under renewed scrutiny, including the Confederate flag that flies at the South Carolina State House.


Obama himself used some of his bluntest language to date on race during an interview with comedian Marc Maron on Friday, saying that just because the N-word is no longer used frequently in public, "that's not the measure of whether racism still exists or not."


The moment was a distant cry from the earlier days of Obama's presidency, when he studiously avoided discussing race or the implications of his election to office.


"I think that the president has grown very weary of having to circumvent these issues, which a lot of people thought was the appropriate thing for him to do as President of the United States," Clyburn said. "But I think he has reached a conclusion that he needs to meet this issue head-on."


Ryan Julison, who is a spokesman for Walter Scott's family, told CNN "The family of Walter Scott will attend today's funeral for Reverend Pinckney. They want to show the same support to the community that the community showed to them."




32.776475


-79.931051










Trademark and Copyright 2015 
Cable News Network
, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Filed in:
 
News
 
Topics:
 
Charleston
, 
obama
, 
South Carolina church shooting
 










×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 














Women Making a Difference


Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.
















 




 






Popular








Small plane crashes in Forsyth County








Mother’s 911 call: My sons are trying to kill me








Woman berates restaurant staff, gets instant dose of justice








Kansas State University band apologizes for halftime show formation
















 






Latest News








Today at 5:00: Off-duty Greensboro officer credited with stopping string of break-ins








French family murders suspect Jose Alvarez indicted








Woman’s winning lottery ticket voided due to error — ‘It wasn’t anything I did wrong’








Robin Williams’ daughter pens message about depression, grief after father’s death












 


























News




New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded






News




Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting






News




Charleston victim funerals begin, as Confederate flag falls in other states






News




Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community






News




Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter








 






News




Charleston pastor and state senator, Clementa Pinckney, remembered for seeking justice






News




Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect






News




Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting






News




Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine






News




Prosecutor to seek death penalty in Charleston church shooting








 






News




SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting






You Decide 2016




Jeb Bush: Confederate flag is ‘racist’






News




Confederate flag still flies as Pinckney’s body heads for SC Capitol














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


Weather iPhone App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


Pinterest


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 55,621 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com




















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

































