Va. reporter, photographer killed on-air during live news interview, shooter kills himself | myfox8.com  


Va. reporter, photographer killed on-air during live news interview, shooter kills himself | myfox8.com














Go
Search
















 Watch Now: 
4:00 p.m. News 



FOX8 TV Schedule 






 Search


 Contact Us














myfox8.com




 
Menu




News


On-Air


Morning News


Sports


You Decide 2016


Lottery


Contests


Events










Weather 




85°
















85°






Low 
68°


High 
86°












Wed





					70° 
 87°
					






Thu





					70° 
 86°
					






Fri





					68° 
 82°
					






See complete forecast










 






















 








Va. reporter, photographer killed on-air during live news interview, shooter kills himself




Posted 9:02 am, August 26, 2015, by 
Stephanie Doyle
 




Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
Reddit
Email
 














 






Please enable Javascript to watch this video




MONETA, Va. — A Roanoke-based WDBJ reporter and photographer were shot and killed Wednesday morning during an on-air during a live interview. A third person was shot and injured.


A screenshot of the suspect, believed to be Vester Lee Flanagan (WDBJ)


The crew, reporter 24-year-old Alison Parker and 27-year-old photographer Adam Ward, was filming during a live television report at Smith Mountain Lake in Moneta, Virginia. The shooting happened at about 6:45 a.m.


The alleged shooter, 41-year-old Vester Lee Flanagan of Roanoke, has reportedly shot himself but is still alive in critical condition. Previously, state police said Flanigan was dead. He shot himself after authorities confronted him on Interstate 66 in Virginia. He was flown to a hospital where he died at about 1:30 p.m.


Flanagan is a former disgruntled employee of the television station where Parker and Ward worked. He worked as a reporter at WDBJ where he went by the on-air name of Bryce Williams. He has worked as a reporter at a number of stations throughout the South, including WNCT in Greenville, NC, WTWC in Tallahassee, and WTOC in Savannah.


UPDATE: 
Flanagan has Tweeted video of the shooting and comments about Ward and Parker.


During a live interview from Bridgewater Plaza, the gunman fired six to seven shots as Parker interviewed someone on screen. The camera then drops to the ground and the broadcast cuts back to the anchor desk. 
According to the Roanoke Times
, Vicki Gardner, the subject of the interview, was shot in the back. She had surgery and is in stable condition. Gardner is head of the Smith Mountain Lake Regional Chamber of Commerce.


The video captures an image of the what’s believed to be Flanagan before it cuts away.  Authorities from Bedford County, Franklin County and Virginia State Police responded to the scene.


WDBJ President and General Manager Jeff Marks announced in a live broadcast at 8:45 a.m. that Parker and Ward had been killed. “We always say ‘senseless’ crime,” Marks said, as he was joined by other members of the news team at the anchor desk. “How can this individual have robbed Alison and Adam’s families of their lives and loves?”


Vester Lee Flanagan (LinkedIn)


 


“My grief is unbearable,” Parker's father, Andy, told the Washington Post. Andy Parker is a banking industry recruiter from Martinsville, Virginia.


“Is this real?" he said. "Am I going to wake up? I am crying my eyes out. I don’t know if there’s anybody in this world or another father who could be more proud of their daughter.”


WDBJ anchor Chris Hurst tweeted that he and Parker were "very much in love" and had just moved in together. "We were together almost nine months. It was the best nine months of our lives. We wanted to get married. We just celebrated her 24th birthday."


Both Ward and Parker were from the WDBJ viewing area. Ward graduated from Salem High School and Virginia Tech. Parker grew up in Martinsville and attended Patrick Henry Community College and James Madison University.


Ward’s fiancée, who is a producer at WDBJ, was recently hired by WSOC in Charlotte. She was to start there in mid-September.


Larry Hincker, associate vice president for university relations at Virgina Tech, said, "It is shocking and deeply saddening for this community to be again struck by gun violence. We deplore this senseless violence, now seemingly commonplace in our society."


Robert Denton, professor and chair of the department of communication, knew Ward, taught him in classes, and worked with Ward at WDBJ when Denton was a guest broadcaster. “Adam was a delightful person," Denton said. "He worked hard -– you could tell he loved what he was doing. He wasn’t afraid to pitch in and do whatever was necessary for the broadcast. He did whatever was needed with a smile and with grace. He was simply a very nice young man and very professional.”


"And Alison was such a sweet and hardworking young newscaster," Denton said. "I have worked with both of them for nearly three years in the field and studio.  Very delightful people and I loved mentoring and being with them. I just find this violence hard to fathom.”


Parker's mother, Barbara Parker, is director of programs at the Piedmont Arts in Martinsville, Virginia. The center sent out this statement today:


“Barbara has been with Piedmont Arts for over 18 years and Alison grew up coming to the museum,” said Piedmont Arts Executive Director Kathy Rogers. “Alison was a smart, talented and beautiful woman and we are proud to call her part of the Piedmont Arts family. All of us here at Piedmont Arts are devastated. Our hearts and prayers are with Barbara, her husband Andy and son Drew.


Allison Parker interviewing Vicki Gardner




We didn't share this publicly, but @
AParkerWDBJ7
 and I were very much in love. We just moved in together. I am numb. 
http://t.co/tUrHVwAXcN
— 
Chris Hurst (@chrishurstwdbj) 
August 26, 2015






A very sad day at WDBJ7, but this is how I will always remember Alison Parker and Adam Ward. 
pic.twitter.com/1PKe5M4eTJ


— Joe Dashiell (@jdashiell) 
August 26, 2015








I am comforted by everyone at 
@WDBJ7
. We are a family. She worked with Adam every day. They were a team. I am heartbroken for his fiancee.


— Chris Hurst (@chrishurstwdbj) 
August 26, 2015








Please, pray for my Chamber colleague, Vicki Gardner, shot in the back this morning, in surgery now. A better person, you'll never meet.


— Susan Spears (@Susan__Spears) 
August 26, 2015








Update: Allison Parker and photographer Adam Ward have been killed in the shooting at Bridgewater Plaza at SML. 
pic.twitter.com/m4ElK04GLf


— Brent Watts (@wattsupbrent) 
August 26, 2015








Law enforcement can be seen on this VA DOT camera on I-64 @ Exit 96 (Waynesboro). Searching for 
#WDBJ
 shooter. 
pic.twitter.com/X3zqGRMZlu


— James Brierton (@jamesbrierton) 
August 26, 2015




 






Please enable Javascript to watch this video






37.181254


-79.617254










Filed in:
 
News
 
Topics:
 
shooting
, 
Virginia shooting
, 
WDBJ
 










×


Report a Typo






Loading






Cancel




























 














You Decide 2016


FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage
















 




 






Popular








Small plane crashes in Forsyth County








Mother’s 911 call: My sons are trying to kill me








Woman berates restaurant staff, gets instant dose of justice








Kansas State University band apologizes for halftime show formation
















 






Latest News








Today at 5:00: Off-duty Greensboro officer credited with stopping string of break-ins








French family murders suspect Jose Alvarez indicted








Woman’s winning lottery ticket voided due to error — ‘It wasn’t anything I did wrong’








Robin Williams’ daughter pens message about depression, grief after father’s death












 


























News




Va. shooter posted tweets, video of shooting on social media






News




Virginia gunman Vester Flanagan’s personnel files reveal disturbing tenure at WDBJ






News




Va. morning show returns to air after reporter, photographer killed during live interview






News




Vigils held to remember slain Virginia journalists






News




Heartbreaking task: WDBJ co-worker retrieves live truck from murder scene








 






News




Va. shooting survivor recovering after losing kidney, part of colon






News




Virginia WDBJ shooting survivor on the road to a full recovery






News




After shooting, Virginia gunman details grievances in ‘suicide note’ faxed to ABC News






News




Martinsville community remembers their ‘little angel,’ slain WDBJ reporter Alison Parker






News




Virginia murders show ugly side of Facebook, Twitter autoplay








 






News




‘They messed with the wrong family,’ says murdered Virginia reporter’s father






News




WDBJ reporter, photographer hailed by colleagues, friends






News




Survivor of Virginia TV shooting released from hospital














 












Mobile Apps
Android App


Android Weather App


Weather iPhone App


iPhone & iPad App










Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


Pinterest


About & Contact
















Online Public File
 • 				
Terms of Service
 •
		
Privacy Policy
 
 •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263 
 •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		
 • 
A Tribune Broadcasting Station
 •
		Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 












×


Email Alerts






























































Follow




Follow “myfox8.com”




Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.




Join 55,621 other followers


















Build a website with WordPress.com




















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

































