Beloved College Librarian Lost in Church Shooting  : College of Charleston News 

Beloved College Librarian Lost in Church Shooting  : College of Charleston News
















 
 
 
 







                                                Tue Sep 8, 2015                                                












MyCharleston


Library


Directory


Site Index


Emergency Info





















      CofC 





      Site 











































                                Menu
                            






Admission and Financial Aid




About




Academics




Campus Life




Athletics




Alumni












 


 




















Home
 » 
Beloved College Librarian Lost in Church Shooting






Beloved College Librarian Lost in Church Shooting




18 June 2015 | 4:33 pm


By:
 
Jason Ryan






Contact:
 
Mike Robertson
, senior director of communications, 843.953.5667






Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Email
Print
 
A message from President Glenn McConnell:


Dear Campus Community:


CofC and Charleston County librarian Cynthia Hurd.


The tragedy at Emanuel A.M.E. Church hits painfully close to home. Among the victims of the horrific acts of Wednesday night was one of our own. Cynthia Hurd was a beloved and valued member of our College family.


In addition to her full-time job as regional manager of Charleston County’s St. Andrews Regional Library, Cynthia also worked at the College’s Addlestone Library as a part-time librarian. She was our longest-serving part-time librarian, having been at the College since the 1990s, when our library was still housed in the Robert Scott Small Building.


It is an understatement to say that Cynthia was dependable and an irreplaceable asset to our campus and to the countless library patrons she assisted over the years. She was a protector and lover of books and a fountain of knowledge whose loss will be felt by our entire College community.


Cynthia worked tirelessly to serve and improve her beloved city and its people. She was an advocate for education and life-long learning. Prior to becoming manager of the St. Andrews branch, Cynthia was a branch manager of John L. Dart Branch Library from 1990 to 2011.


Known for her quick wit and sense of humor, Cynthia connected with every person with whom she came in contact. She could relate to anyone, no matter who they were or where they came from. In that sense, she represented the very best of our College and our beloved Charleston.


On behalf of our entire College community across the world, I extend condolences to Cynthia’s family and loved ones and to the families and friends of all nine victims of this senseless act.


The College’s counseling staff stands ready to assist any member of the campus community in need. Please contact them at 843.953.5640. In addition, our Religious Life Council, which is a volunteer group of faith advisers representing 17 religious denominations, can also offer assistance. A council representative can be reached at 740.405.5043.


Together, we will move forward from this tragedy, and we will continue to serve our students and our campus community, just as Cynthia always did. But we move forward knowing that we are a lesser place today and forever because of this profound loss of life.


Sincerely yours,


Glenn F. McConnell ’69






Related








Campus Life
 
Top Stories










Subscribe


If you enjoyed this article, subscribe to receive more just like it.






















Comments are closed.














Search


News Briefs








College Commended By US Sailing For Work With Youth


The Cougar sailing program and the School of Sciences and Mathematics hosted a STEM Camp with students from Creekside Middle School in Marion County, S.C.




 










College of Charleston In the News – Week of Sept. 7, 2015


In this week’s installment:  an economist comments on wages in South Carolina; a look at the Darius Rucker pop-up concert; and an examination of the political climate in South Carolina. 




 










Event Series to Address Racial Violence Targeting African American Churches


The featured event on Sept. 15, 2015, will include survivors of the 1963 Birmingham Church Bombing as well as a member of Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, S.C.




 






Subscribe















			Enter your email address to receive our newsletter.		










Email Address


















Related Articles
 


In Case You Missed It








Two Wheels, a Ukulele and One Epic Summer (has slideshow)


After graduating from the College in 2014, academic standout Chelsea Cash embarked on a life-changing bicycle trip across America.




 












Popular Posts




Comedian Kenan Thompson Is Coming to the College
 


Scholars, Librarians and Educators Join CofC Faculty
 


8 Do’s and Don’ts of College Admissions Essays
 








Categories
 
 




Select category


Academics


Alumni


Athletics


Campus Life


Charleston Beats


CofC In the News


In Case You Missed It


News Briefs


Top Stories












Instagram Feed
 
Load More...
Follow on Instagram


Latest YouTube Upload
Visit our YouTube channel
 






 


 


 










Contact Information






Mike Robertson




Senior Director, Media Relations



                        843.953.5667
                    




Hannah Ashe




Associate Director of Communications, Media Relations



                        843.953.4918
                    










Ron Menchaca




Senior Director, Communications



                        843.953.3395
                    




Jason Ryan




Assistant Managing Editor, The College Today

			843.953.6067
                    








Archives




Academics


Alumni


Athletics


Campus Life


Charleston Beats


Featured Expert


News Briefs








Related Links




Expert Guide


For the Media


Video Services


Social Media


Photo Gallery





















































                                    
                                      
                                      66 George Street

                                      Charleston, South Carolina 29424

                                      843.805.5507
                                    










Colleges and Schools




Arts


Business


Education, Health and Human Perfomance


Humanities and Social Sciences


Languages, Cultures and World Affairs


Sciences and Mathematics


Graduate School


Honors College












Information For




Current Students


Faculty and Staff


Alumni


Families/Parents


International Students


Job Applicants












Quick Links




Public Safety


Campus Jobs


Bookstore


Giving


Contact Us


Information Technology


Transparency Spending












Copyright © 2014 All Right Reserved. College of Charleston | 
Privacy Policy








 


















Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address












Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







































