Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader - Business Insider 
Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader - Business Insider











Featured
Trending
Recent


































Login 












 Remember me
                        
 I forgot username or password


 Login with Twitter
 Login with Facebook
 Login with LinkedIn
 Login with Google


Register























Events
BI Intelligence






















                                    Tech                                





                                    Finance                                





                                    Politics                                





                                    Strategy                                





                                    Life                                





                                    Entertainment                                





                                    All                                
























 






×








From





To















                You have successfully emailed the post.
            









AFP 

            More:

                                                        AFP


Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader












Romaric Ollo Hien, AFP




Nov.  1, 2014,  7:43 PM
147













facebook





linkedin





twitter





google+





print





email





































print





email













share 





share 





tweet 





share 





print





email













Share on Facebook 





Share on Twitter 





Share on Linkedin 





share 





print





email












© AFP Issouf SanogoBurkina Faso's Lieutenant-Colonel Yacouba Isaac Zida (C) leaves after a meeting with the country's military commanders on November 1, 2014 in OuagadougouOuagadougou (AFP) - Burkina Faso's opposition and civil society leaders warned Saturday against a military takeover and called a mass rally after the army stepped into the power vacuum left by the ouster of president Blaise Compaore.
The military named a high-ranking officer, Isaac Zida, to lead the country's transition a day after Compaore was forced to resign as his plans to extend his 27-year rule exploded into violent protests that saw parliament set ablaze.
The protests have led some observers to draw a parallel with the Arab Spring, and the developments were closely watched across a continent where several other veteran heads of state are also trying to cling to power. 
Zida, who beat out a rival claim by the landlocked west African nation's army chief to lead the transition government, vowed to work closely with civil society, without giving details on a planned transition.
But opposition and civil society leaders swiftly issued a statement warning the military against a power snatch, demanding instead a "democratic and civilian transition".
"The victory born from this popular uprising belongs to the people, and the task of managing the transition falls by right to the people. In no case can it be confiscated by the army," they said in a statement.
They also called a new mass rally in capital Ouagadougou on Sunday at the site now nicknamed "Revolution Square" where up to a million people had gathered earlier this week to demand Compaore's resignation.
The civil society's call appeared to be backed by the African Union, which urged a "civilian-led and consensual transition" through free elections in the former French colony.

- 'Smooth democratic transition' -

Zida, the second in command of the presidential guard, said he had assumed "the responsibilities of head of the transition and of head of state" to ensure a "smooth democratic transition".
The transition will be carried out "together with the other components of national life," he said, referring to the political opposition and civil leaders.
The army's endorsement was signed by General Nabere Honore Traore, who initially said he would himself assume power, a claim Zida had dismissed as "obsolete".
"The aspirations for democratic change" of the Burkina youth "will be neither betrayed, nor disappointed", said Zida, 49.
Speaking on television early Saturday, the military officer also said the ousted president was "in a safe place" and his "safety and well-being are assured".
In neighbouring Ivory Coast the presidency confirmed reports that Compaore, who left Ouagadougou on Friday according to French diplomats, was in the country.
A local resident said he saw a motorcade of around 30 cars heading for a luxury hotel in the Ivorian capital, which is also used as a semi-official residence for foreign dignitaries.
"The services of the President hotel in Yamoussoukro served him (Compaore) dinner yesterday (Friday) and breakfast this morning (Saturday)," according to a hotel employee.

- Gearing up for fresh protests -

In the Burkina Faso capital, calm returned to the streets with shops reopening, but several residents told AFP they were already gearing up for fresh protests.
"We are completely against soldiers taking power," said Salif Ouedraogo, a 38-year-old insurance agent.
"We want a civilian as head of state and tomorrow we are going to regroup at Revoluation Square to say no to military power. Even if it means that there would be bloodshed."
Opposition figures have said around 30 people were killed in Thursday's violence, while AFP could only confirm four deaths.
"It's always the same people who are in power. Even though it was us, civilians, who carried out the struggle," he said.
Others were more positive.
Adama Zongo, a trader said he was also concerned by Zida's claim to power as the presidential guard was close to Compaore.
"We should give (Zida) time. Those who don't want a soldier in power, who do they want?" asked Gildas Zongo, a student.
The uprising was sparked by plans to change the constitution to allow Compaore to stand once again for elections next year.
Defying massive protests, Compaore initially rejected calls to resign.
He eventually withdrew plans for a vote on the constitutional changes but vowed to stay in power for another year, before announcing on Friday that he was stepping down.
France's President Francois Hollande said Paris would "contribute to calming" the situation in Burkina Faso, while Washington urged "a transfer of power in accordance with the constitution".
The EU called for the people of Burkina Faso to have the final say in who rules their country.
Compaore was only 36 when he seized power in a 1987 coup in which his former friend Thomas Sankara was ousted and assassinated.
His bid to hold on to power particularly angered young people in a country where 60 percent of the population of almost 17 million is under 25.
Many have grown up under the leadership of one man and are disillusioned by the establishment that has led a country which is languishing at 181st out of 187 countries on the UN human development index.
Known in colonial times as Upper Volta, the country won independence from France in 1960 and its name was changed to Burkina Faso ("the land of upright men") in 1984.


More from AFP:


Pakistan border ceremony goes ahead despite bomb carnage


Suicide bombing kills 15 at Nigeria Shiite ceremony: local cleric


Dozens drown in migrant boat sinking off Istanbul


Branson says 'no explosion' behind spacecraft crash


HSBC sets aside $378m for fine over forex scandal


















facebook





linkedin





twitter





google+





email





































email













share 





share 





tweet 





share 





email













Share on Facebook 





Share on Twitter 





Share on Linkedin 





Share on Google Plus 





email










Recommended For You

































Join The Discussion













OR  Login With Facebook
 Login With Twitter
 Login With Google









 Submit the comment for Insider Status
								











Comments 






						Insiders
						0




						All Comments
						0




Apply To Be An "Insider" »







 Loading











Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader
Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader

Ouagadougou (AFP) - Burkina Faso's opposition and civil society leaders warned Saturday against a military takeover and called a mass rally after the army stepped into the power vacuum left by the ouster of president Blaise Compaore.


















Get AFP Emails & Alerts




Sign-Up

Learn More »



More




Featured








													Business Insider Select												




													Tech Select												




													Tech Chart Of The Day												




													Markets Chart Of The Day												




													10 Things Before the Opening Bell												




													Instant MBA												




													Breaking News												




													Business Insider Events												








Entertainment








													Entertainment Select												




													Sports Select												








Finance








													Finance Select												




													Markets Select												




													Monday Scouting Report												




													Your Money Select												




													Financial Advisor Insights												




													Smart Investor												








Strategy








													Strategy Select												




													Advertising Select												




													Retail Select												




													Careers Select												




													Advertising: The Brief												








Politics








													Politics Select												




													Military Select												




													Law & Order Select												








Life








													Life Select												




													Transportation Select												




													Education Select												








Tech








													Enterprise Select												




													Science Select												




													Mobile Chart Of The Day												




													E-Commerce Chart Of The Day												




													Payments Chart Of The Day												




													Digital Media Chart Of The Day												








Charts of the Day








													Sports Chart Of The Day												








Top 10 Things








													10 Things In Tech You Need To Know												




													Closing Bell												













Advertisement






Your Money



                    NASDAQ Composite                
4,631


                            +64.6                        



                            (+1.415%)
                        




                    S&P 500                
2,018


                            +23.4                        



                            (+1.173%)
                        




                    NYSE Composite                
10,845


                            +0                        



                            (+0%)
                        




Sponsored By











LinkedIn














                                                Pepsi CEO Indra Nooyi Gave The Perfect Advice For Getting Noticed At Work                                            













                                                Steve Jobs’ Ideas Were So Brilliant He Would Leave Employees ‘Dumbfounded’ In Meetings                                            













                                                Microsoft Fires Global Advertising Sales Team                                            








Login with LinkedIn to see what your friends are reading on Business Insider. 
 Login with LinkedIn




                    No articles have recently been shared in your network.
                




More »





Featured






Harvard Management Legend Clay Christensen Defends His 'Disruption' Theory, Explains The Only Way Apple Can Win


More "The BI Interview" » 






6 Interesting Things We Learned From Entrepreneurs About Starting A Business


More "Fast Track Q&A" » 






Wall Streeters Are Heading To This Safari Resort For Seriously Luxurious African Adventures


More "Out Of Office" » 






General Electric CMO Beth Comstock Does Some Of Her Best Work 36,000 Feet Above Ground


More "Anywhere Workplace" » 


 




Welcome, !



You are logged into Facebook
Social: 

Your Activity|


These articles have been shared on your timeline. You can remove them here:





Options


Notify me when a story is shared.




Yes

No











Welcome, !



You are logged in with Google
Social: 

Your Activity|


These articles have been added to your Google activity log. You can remove them here:





Options


Notify me when a story is shared.




Yes

No












Watch & Learn



Scientists Have Figured Out What Makes Women Attractive 
How To Get A Dancer's Body
Women Are Going Crazy Over These No-Underwear Yoga Pants
 




Trending






BI Intelligence


Mobile Is Pulling Customers Away From Branches And Online Banking


Same-Day Delivery Report


THE BEACONS FAQ: It's Time To Set The Story Straight


How Social Networks Are Driving More Sales And Influencing Online And Offline Purchases



Read Business Insider On The Go



FREE AppDownload



 Available for iPhone, iPad, Android, BlackBerry and Windows   

 






Advertisement








Find A Job




Tech Jobs


Media Jobs


Finance Jobs






C-Level Jobs


Design Jobs


Sales Jobs






See All Jobs






Thanks to our partners


















* Copyright © 2014 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
                            Terms of Service
                            and
                            Privacy Policy.

Disclaimer
Commerce Policy





                            Powered by MongoDB


                            Hosted by Datapipe


                            Stock quotes by YCharts


Made in NYC




International Editions:
                        AUSIDINMYSGUK 
































































