Mass Resignations Within the Ruling Party of Burkina Faso | Freedom, Justice, Equality News 
Mass Resignations Within the Ruling Party of Burkina Faso | Freedom, Justice, Equality News




Home

Contribute




Register an AccountSign Up and Contribute!




Username




E-mail



A password will be e-mailed to you.









Have an Account?Login Using This Form



Username



Password


 Remember Me




 










 






How Chinese President Xi Jinping and His Yellow Umbrella Became a Hong Kong Pro-Democracy Protest Meme

Chinese President Xi Jinping photoshopped into a…






Talk Show Inspires 1 Million+ Callers to Protest India’s Anti-Gay Law

Screenshot of the Indian talk show “Satyamev…














Home
Activism



No categories RSS Feed




Drone Footage of Hungary Protests Against “Internet Tax”


											Hungarians have been rallying in masses against a proposed tax on Internet traffic that…
										



Your Voice Counts, Don’t Be Silent


											Mujeres Construyendo (Women biudling) tries to raise awareness with a message mainly for women.…
										



Human Rights Activist Iyad El-Baghdadi Speaks Out on His Deportation from UAE


											Iyad El-Baghdadi was arrested and deported from the UAE for his Tweets On April…
										





World News



Africa  57 

Asia  66 

Europe  12 

Latin America  49 

Middle East  56 

North America  54 

South America  53 

RSS Feed




Expected Oregon ruling could kill coal industry's hopes for exports to Asia


											Expected Oregon ruling could kill coal industry's hopes for exports to Asia An Oregon…
										



Stalled $20bn Myanmar railway project a setback for Asia-Mideast trade


											Stalled bn Myanmar railway project a setback for Asia-Mideast trade It should have been…
										



Germany wants history and World Cup title in South America


											Germany wants history and World Cup title in South America Felipe Dana/Associated PressArgentina's Lionel…
										





Economy
Environment
Equality
Human Culture





Health & Wellness

Politics

Science








				Mass Resignations Within the Ruling Party of Burkina Faso			



					Added by LaRaza Escritor on January 6, 2014.Saved under FeaturedTags: Burkina, Faso, Mass, party, Resignations, ruling, Within 






Fromer Senate president Roch Marc Christian Kabore now joins the opposition – Public Domain

Morin Yamongba reports that 75 members (including former ministers) of the ruling party in Burkina Faso, Le Congrès pour la démocratie et le progrès (Congress for democracy and progress) have left the party to join the opposition [fr] because of alleged lack of plurality within the party. They also oppose the proposed amendment to the constitution that would allow the extension of the presidential mandate [fr]. The next presidential election is scheduled for 2015.
Written by Rakotomalala   · comments (0) Donate   · Share:  facebook · twitter · googleplus · reddit · StumbleUpon · delicious 
Global Voices » Breaking News
 


			You must be logged in to post a comment 
			
				Login			

 


 













Home
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
Our Authors
RSS
↑ Freedom, Justice, Equality News



Freedom, Justice, Equality News


Log in - 			
				Powered by WordPress - 
		Designed by Gabfire Themes







