Burkina Faso General Takes Power After President Resigns - Businessweek 

Burkina Faso General Takes Power After President Resigns - Businessweek






Sign in with Facebook




Or use your Businessweek account


Email

Password
Forgot  password?


Remember me




Already a Bloomberg.com user?

Sign in with the same account.

Don't have an account?
Sign up.


Help! I can't access my account.





This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
X







Bloomberg Businessweek

News From Bloomberg

















LIMITED-TIME OFFER


SUBSCRIBE NOW





















Global Economics


Companies & Industries


Politics & Policy


Technology


Markets & Finance


Innovation & Design


Lifestyle


Business Schools


Small Business


Video & Multimedia















Bloomberg News
Burkina Faso General Takes Power After President Resigns



By Simon Gongo and Pauline Bax


October 31, 2014










Burkina Faso's president Blaise Compaore, right, reviews troop with General Nabere Honore Traore during a military parade celebrating Burkina's forces' 52nd anniversary in this Nov. 1, 2012 file photo in Ouagadougou. Photographer: Ahmed Ouoba/AFP via Getty Images

Burkina Faso’s president, Blaise Compaore, resigned after four days of protests, and the chief of staff of the armed forces, General Honore Traore, announced he was taking power.  “I assume the functions of head of state,” Traore told reporters in the capital, Ouagadougou, after Compaore’s departure was announced. News of Compaore’s resignation sparked celebrations by protesters in the Place de la Nation, a public square in the center of the city near the main military barracks, and in the second-biggest city Bobo-Dioulasso.  The nation will hold “free and transparent” elections within 90 days, Compaore said in a statement published on the Burkina Faso website, LeFaso.net. Compaore, 63, left the capital and was traveling by road to the border with Ghana, the Ouagadougou-based Radio Omega reported.  Compaore’s resignation was the culmination of an explosion of street protests over his plan for parliament to pass a law to allow him to extend his 27-year rule. He canceled the vote yesterday as the demonstrations intensified with attacks on the National Assembly.  “Compaore’s resignation, after 27 years in power, leaves a political vacuum that could bring considerable political and economic instability,” Bjorn Dahlin van Wees, a London-based analyst for the Economist Intelligence Unit, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Uncertainty over the timing of the elections could also mean further unrest.”  Transitional Period  French, Americans and Africans had warned Compaore to expect a reaction if he changed the constitution, French officials in Paris said. The events in Burkina Faso are a warning to other countries that may consider changing their presidential term limits, such as Rwanda, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Republic of Congo, said the officials, who spoke on the condition that they wouldn’t be identified.  Compaore said yesterday that he would remain president to oversee a transition to a new government, while the army said it had taken power. The opposition today said it rejected both statements.  At least three people were killed in the protests, Robert Bibia Sangare, managing director of the largest medical facility in Ouagadougou, said by phone today. Hospital Yalgado Ouedraogo treated 62 people with injuries, he said.  Traore’s Rise  Burkina Faso, a nation of about 17 million people, is the second-largest cotton producer in sub-Saharan Africa and fifth-biggest gold producer. It ranks 181st out of 187 nations on the United Nations Human Development Index, which measures life expectancy, literacy, education and gross domestic product per capita. Per capita income in 2012 was about $650, according to the UN.  Traore was appointed chief of staff in 2011 following a revolt within the army over delayed pay and allowances that came in a year rocked by protests over rising costs of living. The mutiny forced Compaore to briefly flee the capital.  Traore “is not popular among the protesters,” Van Wees said. “Depending on what path he chooses to go down, unrest could intensify again.”  The CFA franc, shared by eight countries in the West African Economic and Monetary Union and pegged to the euro, weakened a third day, falling 0.6 percent to 526.34 per dollar by 4:12 p.m. in Ouagadougou.  Compaore, a former army officer, seized power in a 1987 coup that killed head of state Thomas Sankara, whom Compaore had helped install in an earlier putsch.  ‘Beau Blaise’  He won an election in 1991 that was boycotted by the opposition. Compaore was re-elected three times, each time claiming 80 percent of the vote.  As ruler of the landlocked former French colony in West Africa, he reversed many of Sankara’s Marxist policies and showed little tolerance for dissent.  Compaore was accused of involvement in civil wars in Liberia and Sierra Leone, and considered a longtime ally of former Liberian President Charles Taylor, who was handed to an international court in 2006 and later convicted of aiding war crimes in Sierra Leone.  Compaore subsequently recast himself as a regional peace broker, mediating in conflicts in Ivory Coast, Guinea, Mali and Togo. The president and his aides became “indispensable mediators” and monitors of the security situation in the Sahel and the Sahara, Brussels-based International Crisis Group said in a report last year.  Known as ‘beau Blaise,’ or handsome Blaise, the former leader’s role mediating the region’s crises allowed him to expand the influence of Burkina Faso abroad and negotiate political and financial support from donors. Organizing international meetings to resolve conflicts also boosted economic activity in Ouagadougou, a city known for the biannual Fespaco film festival, which was first held in 1969 and showcases African films.  The country’s economy depends heavily on remittances from an estimated 4 million migrant workers in neighboring Ivory Coast, according to the World Bank. Agriculture employs about 85 percent of the population, with cotton as the main cash crop.  To contact the reporters on this story: Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou at sgongo@bloomberg.net; Pauline Bax in Accra at pbax@bloomberg.net  To contact the editors responsible for this story: Antony Sguazzin at asguazzin@bloomberg.net Karl Maier, Emily Bowers 


Video: Burkina Faso Army Seizes Control, President Resigns


Video: Violent Clashes Erupt on Streets of Burkina Faso


Story: Political Aide in Bondage Bar: Tabloid Scandals Weaken Abe


Story: One Great Idea From Jean Tirole, the Nobel Economist


Video: Classical Music Fights for Business & Media Relevancy

































LIMITED-TIME OFFER


SUBSCRIBE NOW













Feed



Most Popular




Read




Shared




Discussed







Redesigning Sandy Hook After Newtown's Tragedy


Eight Tips to Boost Holiday Sales


Sounding the Alarm on the Rapid Spread of Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis


Bowling Alone: Americans Aren't Buying 'Discretionary Services' Like Recreation


McDonald’s Doesn’t Have a Loyalty Program, but It Could Use One







Tim Cook Speaks Up


Your CEO Doesn't Think You Deserve a Promotion


John Maynard Keynes Is the Economist the World Needs Now


The Bill for Cybersecurity: $57,600 a Year


How Sonos Built the Perfect Wireless Speaker







John Maynard Keynes Is the Economist the World Needs Now


What's a Living Wage in Wisconsin?


Does More Education Lead to Less Religion?


Four Reasons Europe Is Stuck Buying Gas From Putin


Are Americans Saving Too Much and Spending Too Little? 











Newsletter Signup


Sample copy









Businessweek.com, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.



Bloomberg, on behalf of itself and select partners, may send me offers and promotions.





Thank you for subscribing to our
Daily Newsletter.
You will receive a confirmation email shortly at
.











Bloomberg Businessweek




Eight Tips to Boost Holiday Sales



Sounding the Alarm on the Rapid Spread of Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis



Bowling Alone: Americans Aren't Buying 'Discretionary Services' Like Recreation



McDonald’s Doesn’t Have a Loyalty Program, but It Could Use One



Digging Into Facebook's Malicious Prosecution Suit Against DLA Piper Law Firm



BP Steps Up Legal Assault on Gulf Spill Settlement Administrator



Cheer Up, Liberals: City Dwellers Will Soon Rule the World



Virgin Galactic Crash: Bloomberg West (10/31)



The Warren Buffett Company Racing to Win the Shoe Market



Virgin Galactic Spacecraft Crash Probe Gets Underway









Ads by Google


































Social


Follow us on Twitter


Join us on Facebook


Connect with us on LinkedIn


Connect with us on Google+


Subscribe to Bloomberg Businessweek


Bloomberg




Links

Our Company
News Mission
Advertising
Careers
Content Licensing
Feedback
Custom Publishing
Manage Subscription


Mobile
Newsletters
Privacy Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Sitemap
Terms of Use
[+] Rate This Page
Sponsor Content Terms



Get Businessweek Delivered




Reviving Keynes

Subscribe



©2014 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved. Made in NYC

Ad Choices

















 


blog comments powered by

Disqus
























Continue to Businessweek





















