Burkina Faso News, Photos and Videos - ABC News 
Burkina Faso News, Photos and Videos - ABC News


















Home>Topics>News>Burkina Faso


Burkina Faso News





Tweet



















Gunfire Breaks out in Burkina Faso  Capital
Gunfire breaks out in  Burkina Faso  capital near state TV headquarters












News


Videos


Photos












Burkina Faso  Appoints New Transitional Leader

Sat, 1 Nov 2014


 regional mediator.  Burkina Faso  hosts French special  ..... United States called on  Burkina Faso 's military "to immediately  ..... States condemns the  Burkinabe  military's attempt  ..... will on the people of  Burkina Faso ," State Department  






AP NewsAlert

Sat, 1 Nov 2014


Burkina Faso  army appoints transitional leader after president leaves office amid protests.








Burkina Faso : 2nd Soldier Says He's President

Sat, 1 Nov 2014

The president of  Burkina Faso  stepped down Friday after protesters  ..... an important regional mediator.  Burkina Faso  hosts French special forces and serves  ..... outgoing president was still in  Burkina Faso  on Friday afternoon, and it was  









Why Upheaval in Burkina Faso  Matters to US National Security

Fri, 31 Oct 2014


 the leader of the African nation of  Burkina Faso  said today he will end his nearly three  ..... in the region. “The location of  Burkina Faso  is strategic, if you look at the other sides  ..... the world’s poorest countries,  Burkina Faso  sits in West Africa between the two  









Brittany Maynard: New Face of Right-to-Die

Fri, 31 Oct 2014


 website has been visited more than 4 million times, including from such far-flung places as Tajikistan, Iceland, Syria and  Burkina Faso . "It's changed everything for us in terms of awareness," says Barbara Coombs Lee, co-author of Oregon's death-with-dignity  






Happy Halloween: Saints Triumph Over Panthers

Fri, 31 Oct 2014


 with four wins and four losses this season. media: 26598263 quicklist: title:  Burkina Faso  Army Takeover text: Protests in the West African nation of  Burkina Faso  resumed today, demanding that President Blaise Compaore step down after being  






Burkina Faso  President Blaise Compaore Says in Statement He Has Stepped Down After Protests

Fri, 31 Oct 2014


Burkina Faso  President Blaise Compaore says in statement he has stepped down after protests.








Burkina Faso  President Won't Resign After Protests

Thu, 30 Oct 2014


Burkina Faso 's longtime leader refused to resign  ..... a spokesman for the ruling party.  Burkina Faso  has long been known for its relative  ..... humanity in Sierra Leone. The leader of  Burkina Faso  also has been accused of supporting  






Spokesman: Burkina Faso  President Declares State of Emergency After Violent Protests

Thu, 30 Oct 2014

Spokesman:  Burkina Faso  president declares state of emergency after violent protests.





Protesters Break Into Burkina Faso  Parliament, Smoke Seen, Before Vote to Extend Term Limits

Thu, 30 Oct 2014

Protesters break into  Burkina Faso  parliament, smoke seen, before vote to extend term limits.





Mali Insurgent Clash Leaves 1 French Soldier Dead

Wed, 29 Oct 2014


 Libya. This year, it has taken a regional approach against Islamist groups. It has deployed some 3,000 troops, 200 armored vehicles and six fighter jets in the former French colonies of Mauritania,  Burkina Faso , Niger, Chad and Mali.








Rally Protests Another Term for Burkina Faso  Prez

Tue, 28 Oct 2014


 tear gas on Tuesday to disperse an opposition protest in  Burkina Faso 's capital, as tensions increase ahead of a vote this week  ..... Department raised concerns about the proposal and singled out  Burkina Faso  security forces in urging the country to debate the issue  






Layne Christensen Paying $5.1M in Bribes Accord

Mon, 27 Oct 2014


 patrol agents, immigration officials and labor inspectors in  Burkina Faso , Guinea, Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo  ..... work permits; and other payments to customs officials in  Burkina Faso  and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Layne is paying a  






French Moving Troops Toward Libyan Border

Thu, 23 Oct 2014


 military operation three months ago against Islamist groups, with troops and equipment sent to ex-colonies Mauritania,  Burkina Faso , Niger, Chad and Mali. Following France's intervention to rout Islamic militants from Mali last year, the operation  









Pucker up: Lip Balms, Treatments Having a Moment

Wed, 22 Oct 2014


 has taken that a step further. She debuts her Fair Trade lip balms Nov. 1 as a way to help children in Peru, India and  Burkina Faso  receive surgery on cleft lips and palate birth defects, using small-scale farmers for certain sustainable ingredients  









Air Algerie Plane Wreckage Recovered in Mali, No Survivors Found

Fri, 25 Jul 2014


 hour after takeoff early Thursday from  Burkina Faso 's capital, Ouagadougou, for Algiers  ..... the Gossi region near the border with  Burkina Faso . It is being taken to the northern  ..... said. Other passengers hailed from  Burkina Faso , Lebanon, Canada, Algeria, Luxemburg  









Black Box Recovered in Algerian Plane Crash

Fri, 25 Jul 2014


 to bad weather. It was just before 1:00 A.M. For a red-eye flight with 118 on board that the plane took off from  Burkina Faso , less than 50 minutes into the flight, the crew asked to be rerouted because of strong storms. At 1:47, French officials  









5 Things to Know This Morning

Fri, 25 Jul 2014


 by Algeria's flagship carrier – had 110 passengers and six crew members on board when it took off from Ouagadougou,  Burkina Faso , en route to Algiers, the airline said. 3. Cause Sought for Gunfight Between Patient, Doctor Authorities are attempting  









Wreckage From Algerian Jetliner Found in Mali, Says Office of French President

Thu, 24 Jul 2014


 was found in Mali near the border of  Burkina Faso , according to a statement from the  ..... when it took off from Ouagadougou,  Burkina Faso , en route to Algiers, the airline  ..... were 51 French nationals along with 24  Burkina Faso  nationals, six Lebanese, five Canadians  









Passenger Jet Vanishes Over Desert North of Timbuktu

Thu, 24 Jul 2014


 survivors, in the Sahara desert in Mali. It was the red eye taking off just before 1:00 A.M. From the tiny country of  Burkina Faso  heading to Algeria. The md-83 was about 50 minutes into flight when a call came in from the pilots to change course because  









Air Algerie Passenger Jet Disappears from Radar

Thu, 24 Jul 2014


 appears to be another tragedy. Here's what we know at this point this morning from Africa. An air algerie flight from  Burkina Faso , Algeria lost contact from controllers and disappeared from radar. It was operated by a Spanish company for air algiers  









7 Tricks to Improve Your Memory

Thu, 12 Sep 2013


 decidedly mixed: Some studies have found that, while doing crossword puzzles may make you better at remembering the capital of  Burkina Faso , there's little evidence they'll boost your performance at more general tasks, like remembering where your car is parked  






World's Most Unfriendly Countries for Tourists

Mon, 18 Mar 2013


 New Zealand Morocco Macedonia Austria Senegal Portugal Bosnia and Herzegovina Ireland  Burkina Faso  *Note that Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ireland and  Burkina Faso  all scored a 6.6. Also scoring a 6.6: Barbados, Canada, Thailand, Mali, United  









Japan Tops List of Healthiest Countries

Thu, 13 Dec 2012


 in Haiti was 37.1, while in Japan was 71.1 - the researchers found one common trend across the globe. Lowest Male:  Burkina Faso  Chad DRC Malawi Zimbabwe Mozambique Swaziland Central African Repbulic Lesotho Haiti Lowest Female: Liberia Burundi Afghanistan  






The Global Note: Battle For Aleppo…At the Olympics, Very Bad Minton…An Elephant In The Pool

Wed, 1 Aug 2012


 where Bazi KANANI and Clark BENTSON reported earlier this year. The Sahel region is comprised of Mauritania, Mali, Niger,  Burkina Faso , Senegal and Chad. The news comes as Secretary of State Hillary Clinton begins her African tour in Senegal today. DEFENSE  









'A Cry for Help': Hunger and Drought Crisis in West Africa

Tue, 29 May 2012

The Crisis Stretches Across 8 Nations, Including Gambia to  Burkina Faso






Facing Hunger Crisis in West Africa, Families Pick Leaves, Berries to Survive

Fri, 25 May 2012


 food and nutritional supplements that have been moved into place in the affected parts of Niger, Mali, Mauritania, Chad,  Burkina Faso , Nigeria, Cameroon and Senegal will run out before the next possible harvest in October. The demand for emergency help  






Gadhafi's Mercenaries Spread Guns and Fighting in Africa

Tue, 3 Apr 2012


 Sahel comes at an especially bad time. After another year of drought in parts of Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Chad, and  Burkina Faso , aid agencies say millions of people need urgent food assistance, but violence in the region makes it hard- in some places  






Saving Lives with Vitamin A

Fri, 25 Nov 2011

By: SYDNEY KUMP Nearly all of the children in  Burkina Faso  are malnourished, but not only are they not getting enough  ..... that you can imagine.” And within the small nation of  Burkina Faso , change is in the air...or better yet, in the food  









Sweet Potatoes in Burkina Faso 

Wed, 23 Nov 2011

Good reason to give them. Not turkeys cranberries but in new crop in their villages far off in Orange sweet potato. He's too sweet potatoes look the same this native when you cut it open. Is white inside. This new and that was introduced its is orange. Color makes all the difference. That's because








Gobbling Up Goodness; Sweet Potato Saves Sight and Lives

Wed, 23 Nov 2011

Thanksgiving Dinner Saving Lives in  Burkina Faso






Sarah Brown on the Baby Shower for Global Good

Mon, 7 Nov 2011


 but there is still a long way to go. With members in 152 countries and affiliated National Alliances in 15 – Bangladesh,  Burkina Faso , India, Indonesia, Kenya, Malawi, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, Sweden, Tanzania, Uganda, Yemen and Zambia  









Pirates a Growing Threat to Tourists, Corporate Travelers

Tue, 13 Sep 2011


 nonsensical. You'd have to have your head examined," said David Shinn, the former U.S. ambassador to Ethiopia and  Burkina Faso . "There's no protection against [pirates] . You can't outrun them and if they find you, you're just a goner  






Scientists clock progress of migrating cuckoos

Fri, 19 Aug 2011


 on habitats," Appleton said. Four of the cuckoos have made swift progress. Two are now in Chad, with other birds in  Burkina Faso  and Nigeria. A fifth bird, named Lyster by scientists, remained in Britain until late July, and was tracked on Thursday  










« Prev12Next »


More Burkina Faso VideosMore Burkina Faso Photos













 









Related Topics


Mauritania


Niger


Algerian Protests


Mali


Guinea-Bissau


Birth Defect


Algeria


Burundi


Peru


Malawi


Cameroon












Hot Topics


Virgin Galactic


Republican Party


Boko Haram


Peshmerga


Barack Obama


Mary Landrieu


Mitch McConnell


Pat Roberts


United Nations


Ukraine


Pakistan


Burkina Faso


Maine


NCAA College Football


Oklahoma City Thunder


Breeders' Cup


New England Patriots


Dallas Cowboys


Georgia Bulldogs


Melanie Griffith












 

























