  Air Algerie crash confirmed after wreckage found near border to Burkina Faso. Five Canadians on board | National Post 
  Air Algerie crash confirmed after wreckage found near border to Burkina Faso. Five Canadians on board | National Post














 National Post
HomeFinancial PostNewsCommentPersonal FinanceInvestingTechSportsArtsLifeHealthHomesDrivingClassifiedsJobsSubscribeNewsWorldIsrael & The Middle East






World




TRENDINGGhomeshi | Income splitting | Ottawa | Magnotta | ISIS | Ford | NHL | SpaceShipTwo
Air Algerie crash confirmed after wreckage found near border to Burkina Faso. Five Canadians on boardBrahima Ouedraogo And Sylvie Corbet, Associated Press | July 24, 2014 8:36 PM ETMore from Associated Press





Twitter

Google+


LinkedIn


Email


Comments
More



Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Digg
FarkIt
StumbleUpon


OUAGADOUGO, Burkina Faso — An Air Algerie jetliner carrying 116 people — including five Canadians — crashed Thursday in a rainstorm over restive Mali, and its wreckage was found near the border of neighbouring Burkina Faso. It was the third major international aviation disaster in a week.
The plane, owned by Spanish company Swiftair and leased by Algeria’s flagship carrier, disappeared from radar screens less than an hour after takeoff, en route from Burkina Faso’s capital of Ouagadougou to Algiers.
French fighter jets, UN peacekeepers and others hunted for signs of wreckage of the MD-83 plane in the remote region, where scattered separatist violence may hamper an eventual investigation into what happened.
The wreckage was found about 50 kilometres from the border of Burkina Faso near the village of Boulikessi in Mali, a Burkina Faso presidential aide said.
“We sent men with the agreement of the Mali government to the site and they found the wreckage of the plane with the help of the inhabitants of the area,” said Gen. Gilbert Diendere, a close aide to Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore and head of the crisis committee set up to investigate the flight.
“They found human remains and the wreckage of the plane totally burnt and scattered,” he said.
He told The Associated Press that rescuers went to the area after they had heard from a resident that he saw the plane go down 80 kilometres (southwest of Malian town of Gossi. Burkina Faso’s government spokesman said the country will observe 48 hours of mourning.
Malian state television also said the wreckage was found in the village of Boulikessi and was found by a helicopter from Burkina Faso. Algeria’s transport minister also said the plane’s remains had apparently been found. French officials could not confirm the discovery late Thursday night.
“We found the plane by accident” near Boulikessi, said Sidi Ould Brahim, a Tuareg separatist who travelled Thursday from Mali to a refugee camp for Malians in Burkina Faso. “The plane was burned, there were traces of rain on the plane, and bodies were torn apart,” he told The Associated Press.
Families from France to Canada and beyond had been waiting anxiously for signs of Flight 5017 and their loved ones aboard. Nearly half of the passengers were French, many en route home from Africa.
“Everything allows us to believe this plane crashed in Mali,” French President Francois Hollande said Thursday night after an emergency meeting in Paris. He said the crew changed its flight path because of “particularly difficult weather conditions.”
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, his face drawn and voice sombre, told reporters, “If this catastrophe is confirmed, it would be a major tragedy that hits our entire nation, and many others.”
Prime Minister Stephen Harper issued a statement saying he was saddened at news of the crash.

“Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the passengers and crew who lost their lives in this tragedy,” he said in the statement, adding that it was confirmed Canadians are among the victims.
Tweets from the account of Lynne Yelich, Canada’s Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, said consular officials are ready to provide assistance.
Radio-Canada reported Thursday that a woman from Sherbrooke, Que., was on board. The CBC’s French-language service said Isabelle Prevost’s family confirmed the 35-year-old was one of the passengers.
The network quoted her partner, who was not identified in the report, as saying that their three children were meant to be travelling with her but that it was decided they should stay with him.
Radio-Canada also quoted Burkina Faso native Mamadou Zoungrana, who works as a technologist at the Papineau Hospital in Gatineau,Que., as saying that his wife and their two sons, aged six and 13, were on the flight. CBC reported they are not Canadian citizens.
Before the plane vanished, the pilots sent a final message to ask Niger air control to change its route because of heavy rain, Burkina Faso Transport Minister Jean Bertin Ouedraogo said.
French forces, who have been in Mali since January 2013 to rout al-Qaida-linked extremists who had controlled the north, searched for the plane, alongside the U.N. peacekeeping mission in Mali, known as MINUSMA.
Algerian Transport Minister Omar Ghoul, whose country’s planes were also searching for wreckage, described it as a “serious and delicate affair.”
The vast deserts and mountains of northern Mali fell under control of ethnic Tuareg separatists and then al-Qaida-linked Islamic extremists after a military coup in 2012.

The French-led intervention scattered the extremists, but the Tuaregs have pushed back against the authority of the Bamako-based government. Meanwhile, the threat from Islamic militants hasn’t disappeared, and France is giving its troops a new and larger anti-terrorist mission across the region.
A senior French official said it seems unlikely that fighters in Mali had the kind of weaponry that could shoot down a jetliner at cruising altitude. While al-Qaida’s North Africa branch is believed to have an SA-7 surface-to-air missile, also known as MANPADS, most airliners would normally fly out of range of these shoulder-fired weapons. They can hit targets flying up to roughly 12,000-15,000 feet.
The disappearance of the Air Algerie plane comes after a series of aviation disasters.
Fliers around the globe have been on edge ever since Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared in March on its way to Beijing. Searchers have yet to find a single piece of wreckage from the jet with 239 people on board.
Last week, a Malaysia Airlines flight was shot down while flying over a war-torn section of Ukraine, and the U.S. has blamed it on separatists firing a surface-to-air missile.
Earlier this week, U.S. and European airlines started cancelling flights to Tel Aviv after a rocket landed near the city’s airport. Finally, on Wednesday, a Taiwanese plane crashed during a storm, killing 48 people.
It’s easy to see why fliers are jittery, but air travel is relatively safe.
There have been two deaths for every 100 million passengers on commercial flights in the last decade, excluding acts of terrorism. Travellers are much more likely to die driving to the airport than stepping on a plane. There are more than 30,000 motor-vehicle deaths in the U.S. each year, a mortality rate eight times greater than that in planes.
Swiftair, a private Spanish airline, said the plane was carrying 110 passengers and six crew, and left Burkina Faso for Algiers at 0117 GMT Thursday (9:17 p.m. EDT Wednesday), but had not arrived at the scheduled time of 0510 GMT (1:10 a.m. EDT Thursday). It said the crew included two pilots and four flight attendants.
The passengers include 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso nationals, eight Lebanese, six Algerians, five Canadians, four Germans, two Luxembourg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one Ukrainian, one Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian, Ouedraogo said. The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots’ union.
The passengers include 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso nationals, eight Lebanese, six Algerians, five Canadians, four Germans, two Luxembourg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one Ukrainian, one Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian
The report that five Canadians were on the Air Algerie flight comes a week after a Canadian was among the nearly 300 who perished when a Malaysian passenger plane was shot down over eastern Ukraine in an area controlled by pro-Russian rebels. Andrei Anghel was a 24-year-old medical student from Ajax, east of Toronto.
Swiftair said the Air Algerie plane was built in 1996 and has two Pratt & Whitney JT8D-219 PW engines.
Swiftair took ownership of the plane on Oct. 24, 2012, after it spent nearly 10 months unused in storage, according to Flightglobal’s Ascend Online Fleets, which sells and tracks information about aircraft. It has more than 37,800 hours of flight time and has made more than 32,100 takeoffs and landings.
If confirmed as a crash, this would be the fifth one — and the second with fatalities — for Swiftair since its founding in 1986, according to the Flight Safety Foundation.
The MD-83 is part of a series of jets built since the early 1980s by McDonnell Douglas, a U.S. company now owned by Boeing Co. The MD-80s are single-aisle planes that were a workhorse of the airline industry for short- and medium-range flights for nearly two decades. As jet fuel prices spiked in recent years, airlines have rapidly being replacing the jets with newer, fuel-efficient models such as Boeing 737s and Airbus A320s.
There are 496 other MD-80s being flown, according to Ascend.
Boeing spokesman Wilson Chow said the company was aware of the reports on the plane and was “gathering more information.”
Corbet reported from Paris. AP journalists Aomar Ouali and Karim Kebir in Algiers, Algeria, Baba Ahmed in Bamako, Mali, Ciaran Giles in Madrid, Spain, Elaine Ganley, Thomas Adamson and Sylvie Corbet in Paris, and Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations contributed to this report.
–With files from The Canadian Press






				Find National Post on Facebook
			






Twitter

Google+


LinkedIn


Email


Comments
More



Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Digg
FarkIt
StumbleUpon



Most Popular

Prev
Next
 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette publishes glowing profile of Jian Ghomeshi after radio star accused of sex abuse British banker charged with two murders, one victim was found in suitcase on balcony of luxury apartment Syrian rebels defect to Al-Qaeda after receiving weapons from U.S. to fight ISIS, Assad Brittany Maynard, the 29-year-old who moved to Oregon for assisted suicide, has taken her lethal drugs Canada launches first air strikes against ISIS: CF-18 fighter jets drop laser-guided bombs on targets in Iraq Winnipeg woman charged with hiding six dead babies in storage locker defrauded neighbour to pay debts Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic accused of ignoring warning signs ahead of deadly SpaceShipTwo crash Jian Ghomeshi scandal becoming a tipping point for anger over mistreatment of women Montreal woman 'pushed by the weight of her conscience' returns stolen artifact to Pompeii after 50 years Jian Ghomeshi's journey: From immigrant's son to cultural icon to pariah Inside the capital of 'New Russia': Once a bustling, wealthy city, Donetsk is now a ghost town Lawyers criticize Tories' victim's rights bill that would give judges power to let witnesses testify anonymously Posted Toronto Political Panel: SmartTrack delays could dent credibility of John Tory's overall agenda 'Why the hell are you sleeping in?' Daylight saving time as controversial as when clocks first changed 98 years ago Stephen Harper tours Francois Hollande around Banff in first Western Canada visit by any French president Q producer who alleges Ghomeshi threatened to 'hate f---' her says she complained to boss in 2010 CBSA trying to deport Toronto man who is allegedly an 'integral member' of Pakistani terrorist group A leap of faith took them to the Yukon. Now a bear attack has left their adopted community reeling Nik Wallenda survives blindfolded tightrope walk between Chicago skyscrapers The Jian Ghomeshi scandal so far The world needs to break its addiction to oil, coal and gas by end of this century: UN climate change report 'Doesn't seem right': Abortion clinics in U.S. and Montreal are seeing a spike in New Brunswick womenNew Brunswick blasted with first snowstorm of the year, 30 centimetres expected SpaceShipTwo crash may be death-knell for Richard Branson’s dream of sending rich people into space Ontario Liberals to introduce updated version of sex education curriculum pulled in 2010 over religious objections Journalists charged $60,000 to cover Obama’s tour of Asia, Australia — and that's just for flights Government blatantly Photoshopped U.S. images of the iconic Canadarm to include 'Canada' logo Ghoncheh Ghavami, the woman jailed in Iran after trying to attend a volleyball match, sentenced to a year in prison: lawyer Canada won't issue visas to residents of countries with widespread Ebola Stephen Harper unveils income splitting tax break for Canadian families with children under 18 Peter Kuitenbrouwer: Appreciating Toronto through the eyes of a Montrealer It can save lives, and also kill people — ten things to know about daylight saving time Toronto police launch criminal investigation into Jian Ghomeshi after two women come forward Is Turkey the next terror target? Observers see growing links to extremism Police ask public for Jian Ghomeshi videos, photographs or chat logs in ongoing investigation ISIS lines up and shoots dead at least 50 in Iraq's Anbar province Ottawa professor facing extradition over anti-Semitic bombing in Paris asks top court to hear his appeal Canadian actress alleges Jian Ghomeshi slapped and choked her at his home With $500K in Canadian military uniforms lost or stolen last year, New Democrats sound security alarm Russia warns it's coming for the Arctic's oil, including an area Canada claims as its own Ukraine denounces 'pseudo-elections' held in regions controlled by pro-Russia rebels In Jian Ghomeshi scandal's wake, Carleton launches review of interns it sent to CBC


Topics: Canada, News, World, Air Algerie, Burkina Faso, Transportation











World Videos  
Visit site »

BattlefrontRaid on Canada 

Faces of WarRemembering Sepoy Khan VC and Muslims who fought in the trenches for Britain 

Home FrontOpinion: Let’s not forget Remembrance Day 

After the WarThis year’s poppy campaign will have special meaning (with video) 





 Powered by WordPress.com VIP




Our Partners



Infomart




The Province




Vancouver Sun




Edmonton Journal




Calgary Herald






Regina Leader-Post




Saskatoon StarPhoenix




Windsor Star




Ottawa Citizen




Montreal Gazette





Classifieds



Remembering




Celebrating




Classifieds Marketplace




Workopolis




FlyerCity




Classifieds Self-Service





Services



Advertise with us




Subscribe




Subscriber Services




ePaper




Newsletters




Site map





Legal



Privacy




Terms




Contact us




Copyright & permissions





Connect with Us



Twitter




Facebook




LinkedIn




Pinterest





© 2014 National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.





 


Follow

Follow “National Post | News”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 10,920 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com















































