Could Burkina Faso protests signal end of president's 27-year rule? (+video) - CSMonitor.com  
Could Burkina Faso protests signal end of president's 27-year rule? (+video) - CSMonitor.com





 


 
 

















DC Decoder
Security Watch

 
































World





All World


Africa

Africa Monitor


Americas

Latin America Monitor


Asia Pacific
Asia: South & Central
Europe
Middle East

Olive Press






People Making a Difference

Change Agent
Latest News Wires


Progress Watch
Security Watch

Terrorism & Security
Backchannels
Reality Check
Under the Radar
Security Voices
Cyber Conflict Monitor






Global News Blog
Global Issues
Latest News Wires
Specials

Africa's AIDS Orphans
Little Bill Clinton
Hostage The Jill Carroll Story
Difference Maker


World Topics



 


USA





All USA


Politics

The Vote
The Monitor Breakfast
Play Gaffe Dodger the presidential election game
Latest News Wires


DC Decoder

Decoder Buzz
Decoder Voices
You Asked






Education
Elections

President
House
Senate
Governors
Vox News
From the Wires
Tea Party Tally
Election Topics


Foreign Policy




Justice
Military
Society
Sports
USA Update
Latest News Wires
Specials

Patchwork-Nation


USA Topics



 


Commentary





All Commentary


The Monitor's View
Readers Respond
Global Newsstand
Upfront Blog

Monitor Political Cartoons
Specials

100 years of Monitor journalism


Commentary Topics







 


Business





All Business


The Bite
Tax VOX
The New Economy
Saving Money
In Gear
Paper Economy
Robert Reich
Latest News Wires
Business Topics




Guide to Giving

America's Top 50 charities: How well do they rate?
America's Top 50 charities in 2013 ranked by total income







 


Energy / Environment





All Energy / Environment


Alternative Energy
Global Warming
Energy Voices
Habitat / Wildlife
Latest News Wires
Energy/Environment Topics







 


Innovation





All Innovation


Tech
Tech Culture
Responsible Tech
Pioneers
Horizons
Energy
Latest News Wires
Innovation Topics







 


Science





All Science


Science Topics







 


Culture





All Culture


Arts
Music
Movies

Monitor Movie Guide


TV
Poetry
Verbal Energy
The Home Forum
Culture Cafe




Family

Modern Parenthood


Food

Stir It Up!
Recipe Categories


Gardening

Diggin' It


Religion
Articles on Christian Science
Latest News Wires





 


Books





All Books


Book Reviews
Chapter & Verse
Readers' Picks
Latest News Wires







 


Take Action





All Take Action


Environment
Education
Conflict Resolution
Disaster Relief and Recovery
Human Trafficking







 




4 Free Issues




Subscribe
Give a Gift
Manage Account
Daily News Briefing


 
























 World
Africa






Could Burkina Faso protests signal end of president's 27-year rule? (+video)






Editors' Picks








4 Free Issues


 

Email


More


























			Daylight saving time: Is it worth it? (+video)
		













 Global News Blog



			Spooked governments ban costumes: Where not to celebrate Halloween
		















			What's next for Mexico in case of missing students
		















			Sexy Halloween costumes for girls? Study backs up concerned parents
		






 


With parts of the military joining the uprising, the protests against President Blaise Compaore running for a fifth term are likely to bring to a rocky close the tenure of one of Africa’s longest-standing rulers.


By
Jason Patinkin, Correspondent

October 30, 2014 












Soldiers attempt to stop anti-government protesters from entering the parliament building in Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso, October 30, 2014. Thousands of protesters marched on Burkina Faso's presidential palace after burning the parliament building and ransacking state television offices on Thursday, forcing President Blaise Compaore to scrap a plan to extend his 27-year rule.




 Joe Penney/Reuters View Caption 






A week of escalating protests in Burkina Faso exploded into violence Thursday as tens of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets against an attempt by longstanding President Blaise Campaore to extend his 27-year rule.Demonstrators in the capital Ouagadougou broke through lines of police, who used tear gas, to storm and torch the parliament building. The protesters took to the streets to protest a vote – now cancelled – that would have changed the constitution to allow President Compaore to run for an unprecedented fifth term.“We have tired of this president. We want a new system,” says Ives Ouedraogo, who is 27-years-old and unemployed, speaking to The Christian Science Monitor by telephone from Ouagadougou. “I know just one president in my life. He needs to let another person.”
					Recommended: 		
			

 

	

	
	
																																				

						
		Think you know Africa? Take our geography quiz.
At press time, Compaore’s whereabouts are unknown, but there are reports he has traveled to Senegal. Compaore’s brother, Francis, was arrested at the Ouagadougou airport. The presidential guard fired on civilians charging the brother’s home, killing at least three, Reuters reports. Riots continued throughout the day, with pyres of furniture and tires sending thick clouds of black smoke into the sky.


Test your knowledgeThink you know Africa? Take our geography quiz.





In Pictures
			Beyond the Africa we always see
		







Video
			Protesters march on Burkina Faso presidency, set parliament ablaze
		

With parts of the military joining the uprising, the protests are likely to bring to a rocky close the often bumpy tenure of one of Africa’s longest-standing rulers. Some in the capital are waiting by their radios – the state television is blacked out – for an announcement about who is in charge.“We saw this was a regime that was crumbling,” says African security analyst Ryan Cummings, who works for risk management firm Red24, by phone. He cites Compaore's loss of support within the military and his own party. Though Burkina Faso’s opposition is united against Compaore, they have yet to coalesce behind a single leader. A power vacuum may lead to infighting and instability.Compaore came to power in a military coup in which his erstwhile friend and revolution hero Thomas Sankara was assassinated. Since then he has held onto power with US and French backing, despite Burkina Faso suffering deep poverty. He survived an attempted overthrow in 2011, but never recovered popularity.A warning?The Burkinabe uprising has stirred memories of former President Sankara, whose death many blame on Compaore and who was a revered figure by many leftists and Pan-Africanists. The protests have also captured the imaginations of many across the continent who are frustrated with aging leaders who overstay their welcome. Some quip this could signal the coming of an “African Spring,” similar to the Arab uprisings of 2011.While such predictions may not pan out, today’s events could be taken as a warning to other leaders across the continent who are trying to abolish term limits, such as Rwanda’s Paul Kagame.For the west, Compaore’s troubles present another challenge. Burkina Faso is used as a base of operations for fighting extremism in the Sahel region, particularly in Mali.“Compaore as much as he was vilified by the local population he was a key ally of the west… without him there’s no guarantee the status quo will persist,” Mr. Cummings says.“The country itself is quite key for regional stability…There’s going to be a void and that could catalyze a lot of extremist groups and this could see other countries being destabilized.”







Related Stories










Test your knowledge
Think you know Africa? Take our geography quiz.



 




			Burkina Faso: Protesters storm parliament over term limit vote
		







			Burkina Faso: Protesters storm parliament over term limit vote
		







					What'd we miss? Tell us what angles to cover next.



Share this story:




More
Email
Print



















About these ads



Popular Now










			Jerusalem lurches towards open conflict over Temple Mount (+video)
		















			Catchiest song of all time? A Spice Girls tune, say British scientists (+video)
		















			IPCC: Window rapidly closing on least-cost cuts to greenhouse gases (+video)
		















			Fallujah: The commander US Marines followed without question  
		















			Death toll from Islamic State massacre of Sunni tribe in Anbar surges (+video)
		








 

 


 













Could you pass a US citizenship test? Find out.








 







4 Free issues Subscribe








About these ads








Make a Difference
Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.

TAKE ACTION






Follow Stories Like This
Get the Monitor stories you care about delivered to your inbox.













 
 






About these ads
 




				We want to hear, did we miss an angle we should have covered? Should we come back to this topic?
				Or just give us a rating for this story. We want to hear from you.
			


Your name:



Your e-mail address:




Your comment:




Loading...


Loading...


Loading...















 









Global Galleries






			Photos of the weekend
		






Editors' picks






			Daylight saving time: Is it worth it? (+video)
		






Doing Good






			Innovations in storage boost renewable energy 
		






Science






			Is bagging an asteroid the best way to get to Mars? (+video)
		






Society






			How a guerilla artist is transforming Chicago's potholes
		






Science






			New evidence points to how and when our solar system got water
		






Movies






			'The Overnighters' examines a town that became a magnet for the jobless
		






Movies






			'Nightcrawler' actor Jake Gyllenhaal is great, but the movie's conception is off
		






Tech






			5 best high-tech Halloween costumes
		






Modern Parenthood






			Halloween crafting fail can turn into a family time win
		






Food






			22 perfect pumpkin recipes
		






USA Update






			Catcall video reaction: Is 'hello' in the street sexual harassment? (+video)
		






Military






			With US women soon eligible for combat, the draft could be next
		






USA






			Amelia Earhart: Has a scrap of metal solved one of the world’s great mysteries? (+video)
		









































Stay Current. Go Far.Discover the Monitor Difference





About
Contact Us
Subscribe
E-Readers
Advertise With Us
Careers
Find us online


Content Map
Text
Multimedia
Corrections
Articles on Christian Science





© The Christian Science Monitor. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy.

























 












































