BBC News - How Burkina Faso's Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall 







BBC News - How Burkina Faso's Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























31 October 2014
Last updated at 21:34


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





How Burkina Faso's Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall

By Thomas Fessy
BBC West Africa correspondent



Blaise Compaore sparked public anger after he tried to extend his 27-year rule


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest


In pictures: Burkina Faso protests


Compaore's 27 years of power Watch



There was just one more year to go before change could finally come, through the next presidential election.
After 27 years of Blaise Compaore, the people of Burkina Faso were set to wait patiently until November 2015.
But Mr Compaore's attempt to force a constitutional change sparked near unanimous outrage. 
"It's as if he was disconnected from reality or not acknowledging what was going on," Rinaldo Depagne, director of ICG's West Africa programme, said.
"With nearly a million people in the streets [in a country of 17 million], any sensible politician would have withdrawn their proposed bill."
But he didn't.
Country on edge
Frustration and anger had been growing over the past few years in Burkina Faso and there had been multiple warnings that the society was on the edge of a social-political crisis.
Violent protests erupted in 2011 throughout the country. 


On Thursday, demonstrators set Burkina Faso's parliament on fire

First out were the students, following the death of one of their number in police custody.
Shopkeepers, traders, magistrates, lawyers, peasants and finally the rank-and-file soldiers followed. 
But they didn't form a mass movement and this is what "saved Blaise Compaore", according to Mr Depagne, who lived in Burkina Faso for a number of years. 
The opposition parties were not able to build a political platform to offer an alternative based on the people's discontent at high prices, low wages and Mr Compaore's undivided rule. 
Yet, these upheavals lasted several months in the first half of 2011.
There hadn't been such major demonstrations since the murder of the investigative journalist Norbert Zongo at the end of 1998.
Mr Zongo was investigating the killing of the driver of Francois Compaore, the then-president's younger brother and special adviser.
He had himself warned his readership that he may end up being killed after he received a series of death threats. 


The murder of Norbert Zongo marked a turning point for many Burkinabes

His murder - which the government initially claimed was an accident - sparked unprecedented demonstrations. 
To many, the Zongo case was a turning point during Mr Compaore's regime. The opposition was too divided to overthrow the system but "it created confidence among citizens about their own rights," Mr Depagne said.
Symbolic statue
There was an overwhelming presence of youth in this week's protests. Half of the country's population is believed to be under 18 and flocking to cities where unemployment fuels frustration.
Despite the economic growth, Burkina Faso remains at the very bottom of the United Nations' Human Development Index, making it one of the world's poorest countries.
The landlocked nation is heavily dependent on international aid, especially since one of its major financial partners, Col Muammar Gaddafi, was killed during the Libyan uprising in 2011.
Repeated promises of change haven't been fulfilled during Mr Compaore's rule, allowing public distrust to grow.


Mr Compaore was close to former Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi

Yet, Mr Compaore imposed himself as an indispensable regional mediator and had become the strongest ally to France and the US in the region.
He showed capacity to resolve crises - despite his own history of backing rebels and fuelling civil wars in the West African neighbourhood - and more importantly, he used his networks to help Western powers battling Islamist militancy in the Sahel. 
Hours before Mr Compaore resigned, a letter he had received earlier this month from French President Francois Hollande - who has now welcomed his resignation - emerged in the media to reveal that France was ready to support him in finding a job within the international community at the end of his mandate, if he withdrew his proposed bill on presidential term limits.
But this wasn't enough. And there was one particular scene during this popular unrest earlier in the week that could have had Mr Compaore worried.
Angered youth took down a statue of him in Bobo Dioulasso, the country's second largest city.
Quite symbolically, the statue was erected in the mid-1990s next to that of Col Gaddafi, who had just visited the country.
Even though that signal was probably the strongest yet, Mr Compaore still thought he could get his bill passed in parliament two days later.
Instead, he precipitated his own downfall.




More on This Story


Related Stories



As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



In pictures: Burkina Faso protests

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                IN PICTURES



Compaore's 27 years of power Watch

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA












Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top Stories



Boy given life for murdering teacher


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


Man admits killing his mother, 76,


HSBC reserves $378m in currency probe









Features




My evil dad

What's it like to be the daughter of a serial killer? 	
				  




Northern star

Should all English cities be more like Manchester? 	
				  




Champion's fear

Why Chris Boardman won't let his daughter cycle on the road 	
				  




Relaxed grammar

Why typos and spelling mistakes don't really matter 	
				  




Advanced warfare Watch

Will new Call of Duty reinvigorate the franchise?  	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



4: UK Living Wage raised by 20p an hour



5: Teenage poppy seller burned in attack



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



3: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



6: 
    Microsoft ends retail sales of Windows 7 and 8  



7: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



8: 
    Ebola intensifies the struggle to cope with Lassa fever  



9: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



10: 
    Viewpoint: 'Why I won't let my eight-year-old cycle on the road'  




Video/Audio




2: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



3: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



4: Lynda Bellingham funeral takes place Watch



5: Rail staff attacked at London Bridge Watch



6: Branson: Explosion claims 'hurtful' Watch



7: Safety error' caused Virgin rocket crash Watch



8: Call of Duty hopes to thrill gamers Watch



9: Is Japan 2020 stadium too big? In 60 secs Watch



10: Inside the UK's biggest salt mine Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    













