Burkina army tightens grip as protesters denounce power grab - Yahoo News 
Burkina army tightens grip as protesters denounce power grab - Yahoo News





   HomeMailNewsSportsFinanceWeatherGamesGroupsAnswersScreenFlickrMobileMoreCelebrityMoviesMusicTVHealthStyleBeautyFoodParentingDIYTechShoppingTravelAutosHomes                        Sign In     Mail      Help    Account Info Help Suggestions      













Follow Yahoo News







 on Facebook





 on Twitter





 on Tumblr





 on Google+





 on Flickr


















News Home


U.S.


World


Politics


Tech


Science


Health


Odd News


Local


Dear Abby


Comics


ABC News


Yahoo Originals


Photos


















Burkina army tightens grip as protesters denounce power grab







By Romaric Ollo Hien and David Esnault
19 hours ago


































Content preferences




Done












.
View gallery






 


.





 


.





 


.





 


.













Ouagadougou (AFP) - Burkina Faso's army seized control of the capital's main square on Sunday, firing tear gas and shots in the air to disperse thousands of protesters denouncing a power grab by the military.Troops moved into Place de la Nation in Ouagadougou and took over the national television headquarters, in both a show of force and defiance against calls by the international community and protesters for a return to civilian rule.The military had stepped into the power vacuum left by president Blaise Compaore, who was forced to resign in the wake of violent street demonstrations over his 27-year-rule of the west African state that some have likened to the Arab Spring.But international mediators brandished the threat of sanctions if the army refused to back down and allow a civilian transfer of power.The UN envoy for west Africa, Mohamed Ibn Chambas, told a news conference in the Burkinabe capital that he and African leaders had pressed the demand in a meeting with the country's top military brass.If the army refuses, "the consequences are pretty clear", he said. "We want to avoid having to impose sanctions on Burkina Faso."




View gallery


 

A man holds up his hands as Burkinese troops arrive at the national television headquarters after sh …
The US State Department also called on the military to immediately transfer power to civilian authorities.Hundreds of thousands of protesters, furious at plans to extend Compaore's rule in the impoverished landlocked country, had massed on the streets of Ouagadougou on Thursday, some going on a rampage and setting the parliament and other public buildings ablaze.Under Burkina Faso's constitution, the speaker of parliament was supposed to step in as interim head of state following the president's resignation.- 'Zida go!' -But the army instead named the second-in-command of the presidential guard, Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida, as head of the transitional authority.




View gallery


 

Opposition supporters protest at the Place de la Nation in Burkina Faso's capital Ouagadougou, o …
Zida, 49, said he was appointed to ensure a "smooth democratic transition" and promised to consult with the political opposition and civil leaders.He met Sunday with opposition leaders including the bloc's main chief Zephirin Diabre, former prime minister Roch Marc Christian Kabore and ex-foreign minister Ablasse Ouedraogo.The talks came after several thousand people joined a march against the military earlier Sunday."No to the theft of our victory, long live the people!" said one banner, while others read: "The soldiers have stolen our revolution", "Zida get out!" and "Zida is Judas."Some protesters headed to the national television headquarters, where two opposition leaders sought to go on air to declare themselves interim chief.




View gallery


 

A man holds up a sign that reads "Zida get out" in French, referring to Isaac Zida, an off …
Former defence minister Kouame Lougue -- whose name was chanted by thousands in the streets following Compaore's downfall -- told AFP: "The people have nominated me. I came to answer their call."But the technicians walked out, interrupting transmission, also foiling a bid by Saran Sereme, a former member of the ruling party, to make her claim as leader of the transition.The mediators from the United Nations, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States told Zida and other military leaders that civilian rule needed to be restored.They "assured us that they had well understood the message", Chambas said.But US State Department spokeswoman Jan Psaki voiced international mistrust at the army's move, saying the United States condemned its attempt to "impose its will" on the people of Burkina Faso.




View gallery


 

Burkina Faso Lieutenant-Colonel Yacouba Isaac Zida (C) leaves after a meeting with the country's …
"We urge civilian leadership to be guided by the spirit of the constitution of Burkina Faso and to move immediately towards free and fair presidential elections," she said in a statement.The West African regional bloc ECOWAS urged dialogue and restraint.Opposition figures have said around 30 people were killed in Thursday's violence that hit the capital and at least one other city. AFP could confirm only four deaths.Shortly after the military named Zida as interim leader, opposition and activist leaders had issued a joint statement demanding a "democratic and civilian transition" in the country of nearly 17 million people."The task of managing the transition falls by right to the people. In no case can it be confiscated by the army," it said.




View gallery


 

Burkina Faso's then president Blaise Compaore speaks at the Presidential Palace in Ouagadougou o …
Compaore and his wife have taken refuge in neighbouring Ivory Coast where they are being put up in a luxury government mansion in the capital Yamoussoukro.- Bitter disillusion -The crisis in Burkina Faso -- known as Upper Volta in its era as a French colony before becoming independent in 1960 and changing its name in 1984 -- is the worst since a wave of unrest three years ago.From March to June 2011, a wave of army mutinies swept the country, alongside public protests over high food prices, unemployment and the looting of property by troops.Compaore was only 36 when he seized power in a 1987 coup in which his former friend and one of Africa's most loved leaders, Thomas Sankara, was ousted and assassinated.In the manner of a number of sub-Saharan African leaders, he clung to power for the following decades, being re-elected president four times since 1991.The uprising that finally forced him out was sparked by plans to change the constitution to allow Compaore to stand yet again for elections next year.He leaves bitter disillusion behind. Burkina Faso languishes at 181 out of 187 countries on the UN Human Development Index.Politics & GovernmentUnrest, Conflicts & WarBurkina FasoBlaise CompaoreMohamed Ibn ChambasOuagadougou





Click to view comments


View Comments (190)











 















   What to read next            Trending     Retrial, Really? The Relentless Obsession to Execute Jodi Arias         Goliath Encounter: Puppy-Sized Spider Surprises Scientist in Rainfores … Sponsored            Trending     Expelled Nazis paid millions in Social Security          Trending     Swedish navy widens search for mystery submarine          Trending     How a surge in Puerto Rican voters is changing Florida politics         Woman rescued from Thousand Oaks chimney belonging to man she met onli … Sponsored            Trending     Police hunt for clues near where Va. remains found          Trending     Nikon Small World 2014          Trending     Obama makes rare campaign trail appearance, people leave early          Trending     Sweden says credible reports of foreign submarine in its waters       
   Latest Slideshows            Photos   View   Wallenda completes Chicago skyscraper wire walks         Images of the week: Tokyo, London, Antarctica Sponsored AFP Relax News           Photos   View   Photos of the day - November 2, 2014          Photos   View   2014 NYC Marathon          Photos   View   Suicide bombing on Pakistani-Indian border         Trick Or Treaters killed Sponsored Associated Press           Photos   View   Photos of the day - November 1, 2014          Photos   View   Fatal fire in Maine          Photos   View   NYC Halloween Parade          Photos   View   Virgin Galactic space tourism rocket explodes after take off       


   Latest Video                 14:02   Play   American Couple Held in Qatar Speaks: 'We Are Being Kidnapped' 14:02         OBAMA FACES HECKLERS IN FINAL CAMPAIGN PUSH Sponsored TouchVision                00:44   Play   Battle for Kobani rages on with arrival of Peshmerga 00:44               00:51   Play   Eastern Ukraine Votes for New Leaders in Russia-backed Election 00:51               01:42   Play   Obama, Yellen Prepare for First One-on-One Meeting 01:42         Putin Turning More Antagonistic, Not Desperate: Bremmer Sponsored Bloomberg                03:11   Play   Obama, Christie campaign for Pa. gov. candidates 03:11               03:37   Play   Remembering “Fargo” 03:37       
   Top Stories                'Death with dignity' advocate ends her life         Virgin Galactic spaceship insured for $40-50 million Sponsored Reuters               Thieves steal 'Arbeit Macht Frei' gate from Dachau death camp              Key function of crashed Virgin spacecraft deployed early: investigator …              U.S. student debt burden falling more on top earners, easing bubble fe …         With Senate at stake, candidates clash over Obama Sponsored Associated Press               Political ad blizzard traumatizes Arkansas              What Ebola has taught us about handling Mars soil samples              Seven rescued, 24 drown as migrant boat capsizes off Istanbul              Wallenda completes Chicago skyscraper wire walks       





© 2014 AFP





Yahoo - ABC News Network


Help / Suggestions


Privacy


About Our Ads


Terms











































