Burkina Faso president quits after 27 years in power | Toronto Star  
Burkina Faso president quits after 27 years in power | Toronto Star





































Monday, November 3, 2014
9:12 AM EST





the star.com
World







Search the archives



















Home

News

GTA
Queen's Park
Canada
World
Investigations
Crime



Your Toronto

City Nights
Schools
The Fixer
Reviews
Traffic



Opinion

Editorials
Commentary
Readers' Letters
Public Editor
Corrections
Editorial Cartoon



Sports

Hockey
Baseball
Basketball
Football
Soccer
Amateur
Tennis
Golf
Figure Skating
Curling
Lacrosse



Business

Economy
Personal Finance
Tech News
Real Estate



Entertainment

Television
Movies
Stage
Music
Books
Visual Arts



Life

Technology
Food & Wine
Travel
Fashion & Style
Homes
Health & Wellness
Parent



Autos


Photos


Diversions

Classifieds
Obituaries







Inside the Star





Bike that crossed Canada stolen outside Toronto bar





Our kids, our future and two competing visions for voters: Tim Harper





Does Canada Border Services Agency need oversight?







News 
  				
  			/ World


Burkina Faso president quits after 27 years in power
President Blaise Compaore stepped down Friday after 27 years in power following a wave of protests.







Share on Facebook


Tweet

















A
A


 




Report an Error





Link to video








Share via Email
Print



























The head of Burkina Faso's armed forces claims power after President Blaise Compaore resigns, amid mass protests against an attempt to extend his 27-year rule. Jillian Kitchener reports.








				ISSOUF SANOGO
				/ AFP/GETTY IMAGES

                
			

				Women pose in front of an armoured personnel carrier on Friday in Ouagadougou as people were demanding that the army take over following the resignation of the president.
			









By:
Robyn Dixon
Los Angeles Times,
 Published on Fri Oct 31 2014





















      Photos
        View photos




zoom






JOHANNESBURG —Burkina Faso’s military chief took control of the country Friday after President Blaise Compaore bowed to popular anger and resigned, following his failed attempt to manipulate the constitution so he could seek a fifth term in office.
Gen. Honore Traore told a news conference that “given the power vacuum” created by Compaore’s departure, he would assume the responsibilities of head of state.
“I undertake a solemn engagement to proceed without delay with consultations with all parties in the country so as to start the process of returning to the constitutional order as soon as possible,” Traore said.



Related videos




The degree of support for Traore remained unclear, as some protesters reportedly consider him too close to Compaore. Some called for former defence minister and retired Gen. Kouame Lougue to take over.
Compaore, one of Africa’s longest-serving leaders, announced his resignation in a statement saying he was vacating power to “put in place a transition” that would lead to elections within 90 days.
The decision by Compaore, a regional power broker whose country has been a stable Western ally, sent political tremours across the continent. His departure marked a democratic milestone, making it seem harder for longtime leaders to cling to power against popular will.
After 27 years in office, he experienced a humiliating defeat after trying to ride out the mass protests and opposition calls for him to quit, insisting he would stay in power another year while a transitional government was installed.
In the end, he was forced out by massive protests, dubbed Burkina Faso’s “Black Spring,” and saw all the major symbols of power in Ouagadougou, the capital, looted and destroyed by furious demonstrators. Protesters opposed a parliamentary vote that was to take place Thursday to change the constitutional limit on presidential terms and allow Compaore to run in elections next year.





				ISSOUF SANOGO
				/ AFP/GETTY IMAGES

                
			

				Women pose in front of an armoured personnel carrier on Friday in Ouagadougou as people were demanding that the army take over following the resignation of the president.
			



After a day of rioting, chaos and looting Thursday, Compaore abandoned his attempt to remove the constitutional limit and promised to give up power late next year, when his term expired. But critics saw it as an attempt to buy time in order to manipulate events and railroad opponents so he could get a fifth term.
Opposition leaders said he had lost popular legitimacy and rejected his attempt to hang on.


Compaore said he had decided to step down for reasons including “the severely deteriorated socio-political situation characterized by continued public disorder and looting.” He called for peace and said it was the responsibility of opposition leaders to stop the looting.
“For my part, I believe that I’ve fulfilled my duty,” he said in his statement.
He reportedly headed toward Ghana in a convoy of several dozen SUVs. After his departure, youths looted his residence, reportedly burning hundreds of white T-shirts supporting a “yes” vote in a constitutional referendum, which would have been necessary if the parliamentary vote had failed.
A day earlier, soldiers at the president’s residence had opened fire on protesters trying to storm the building. There were reports that people were killed or seriously injured, but casualties could not be confirmed.
Compaore took power in a 1987 coup, when Burkina Faso’s revolutionary leader, Thomas Sankara, often called Africa’s Che Guevara, was killed by soldiers in mysterious circumstances. Sankara and Compaore were old friends and allies, but there have been murmurings for decades that Compaore may have played a role in the assassination.




















More on thestar.com








Five Manitoba cabinet ministers quit over premier who doesn’t listen









British banker charged in murders that shock Hong Kong









Read more about:
Burkina Faso, Africa

















































Top News





								
								
								Students were warned away from Q internships: professor



								
								
								Child-care advocates say parents have clear choice in next federal election comments



								
								
								More action sought to stop suicide in Canadacomments



Updated
								Terminally ill woman ends her life, as planned, under assisted-suicide lawcomments



NEW
								Dozens feared dead after migrant boat sinks off Istanbul



NEW
								Bridging the digital divide: Students teach seniors how to be tech savvy comments



NEW
								British banker charged in murders that shock Hong Kong



								
								
								Canadian warplanes launch first airstrike against Islamic State 







commercial promo






commercial promo






commercial promo






commercial promo





Partner ContentPlaces to Grow: The reshaping of the GTA






The Kit Q&A: J.Crew perfumer Carlos Huber






The high cost of taking money out of your RRSP: Mayers 






Further education students need to plan ahead for cost 






Toronto.com: Must-See November Events















World stories map
All the countries from which the Star has reported since late 2011.







The World Daily blog
The Star's foreign desk covers the best stories from the around the globe.













On Twitter











Popular Photo Galleries






Photos


News | Toronto Star
The Oscar Pistorius trial in photos



Photos


News | Toronto Star
It's all happening at the Zoo



Photos


News | Toronto Star
Brazilians mourn Eduardo Campos





























Back to Mobile


 





















































thestar.com

News
Your Toronto
Opinion
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Life
Diversions
Classifieds
Site Map




 

Wheels.ca
Insurance Hotline
New in Homes
Star Store
Blogs
Contests
Lottery Results
Obituaries
Corrections
Public Editor
Behavioural Targeting
Today's News




Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd.

About
Atkinson Principles
Statement of Principles
Get Home Delivery
My Subscription
Contact Us
Contact Webmaster
FAQ
News Releases
Star Internships
Careers @ the Star




Advertise with us

Advertising Terms
Mediakit
Online Advertising
Print Advertising
Special Features




Initiatives

Santa Claus Fund
Fresh Air Fund
Speakers Bureau
Classroom Connection
Pages of the Past
Report on Community Giving




Connect with Us

RSS feeds
Twitter Updates
News Alerts
Newsletters
Mobile Devices





© Copyright Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd. 1996-2014

Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy

































