
      Clashes at Burkina Faso protest against leader's plan to extend rule
| Reuters

 

      Clashes at Burkina Faso protest against leader's plan to extend rule
| Reuters







 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Legal
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators




Opinion



Opinion Home
Ian Bremmer
Steven Brill
Hugo Dixon
Alison Frankel
Jim Gaines
Edward Hadas
Anatole Kaletsky
Mark Leonard
John Lloyd
David Rohde
Reihan Salam
Jack Shafer
Nicholas Wapshott
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers




Video










































Article
Comments (1)
Slideshow
























Clashes at Burkina Faso protest against leader's plan to extend rule

By Joe Penney and Mathieu Bonkoungou

OUAGADOUGOU  
Tue Oct 28, 2014 5:14pm EDT



1 Comments




Tweet





Share this

Email
Print





























1 of 5. 
                                                Protesters gather at Place de la Nation in Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso, October 28, 2014. 
Credit: Reuters/Joe Penney






Related News


Spain central government moves to block new Catalan voteMon, Oct 27 2014Burkina Faso opposition challenges president's bid to extend termThu, Oct 23 2014Hong Kong protesters march after fruitless talks with governmentWed, Oct 22 2014Burkina Faso government seeks referendum to extend president's ruleTue, Oct 21 2014Purely military action in Syria could fuel extremism: U.N.Tue, Oct 21 2014



Analysis & Opinion


Hong Kong protests reach polite impasse

Six months after girls abducted, Nigerians protest near president’s house





Related Topics


World »






OUAGADOUGOU (Reuters) - Police fired teargas at rock-throwing protesters after tens of thousands marched through Burkina Faso's capital on Tuesday calling for President Blaise Compaore to scrap plans to change term limits to stay in power.
An early morning march through the heart of Ouagadougou was peaceful but clashes erupted later as protesters tried to advance towards the National Assembly.Tuesday marked the start of a civil disobedience campaign by opposition parties after the government asked the National Assembly to order a referendum on changing the constitution to let Compaore seek re-election next year rather than step down.Former colonial power France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for Special Forces soldiers operating across West Africa, urged Compaore to abide by an African Union charter stipulating that leaders should not change the law to try to stay in power."The people have decided to start a general popular resistance. The first grievance is to get the withdrawal, pure and simple, of this legal project," Zephirin Diabre, head of the opposition delegation, told the crowd of demonstrators.Protesters chanted "Step aside!" and "Don't touch Article 37", referring to the clause in the constitution that now bars  Compaore, in power for 27 years, from running again next year.Others carried banners comparing Compaore to Ebola, the virus that has killed nearly 5,000 people in the nearby states of Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone. "We must disinfect ourselves," one read.There was no immediate figure for arrests or casualties, though Red Cross workers and emergency personnel took charge of some protesters injured during the demonstration. In a statement issued late on Tuesday, the government congratulated the opposition leadership for what it said were largely peaceful demonstrations across the country. It said marchers in some towns had deviated from planned routes, however, leading to misbehavior."The government calls upon the sense of responsibility and restraint in order to avoid any act that might compromise the peace and stability our country holds so dear," the statement said.Protesters in Ouagadougou who marched towards the National Assembly, where the law will be debated on Thursday, were blocked by security forces who fired volleys of teargas and used water cannons. They responded by burning tires and throwing rocks. A pocket of demonstrators gathered in a downtown square pledging to hold out until Compaore shelved his plan, but were peacefully dispersed by police in the early evening."It's provocation. They (the authorities) want to set the country on fire," said a young protester. "Even if Blaise Compaore burns the country down, he will depart all the same."Demonstrators in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina Faso's second biggest town, 330 km (205 miles) to the southwest of the capital, pulled down a statue of Compaore, a witness said.They left intact an adjacent statue of Libya's late leader Muammar Gaddafi, who was a popular figure in some poor African countries because of his generous cash donations.  AU RULESThe French government said on Tuesday it expected Compaore to adhere to laws drawn up by his peers."The African Union charter on democracy and good governance article 23 ... specifies clearly that constitutional revisions aiming to prevent political change are banned," Foreign ministry spokesman Romain Nadal told reporters.Nadal said breaking the charter could lead to sanctions. President Francois Hollande had sent a letter to Compaore on Oct. 7 outlining this position, he added.French troops based in Ouagadougou are a key part of French counter-terrorism operations across West Africa.Compaore has positioned himself as a key mediator in regional conflicts and is also an important ally of the United States in the regional fight against al Qaeda-linked Islamists.Having seized power in a 1987 coup, Compaore has won a series of elections, the last of which was in 2010. But he faced unprecedented protests in 2011 from a usually loyal army. The referendum plan has split his nation, one of the world's poorest despite being a top regional cotton producer and home to a fledgling gold industry. (Additional reporting by John Irish in Paris; Writing by David Lewis and Joe Bavier; Editing by Catherine Evans)
FILED UNDER: 
World







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints
























 





We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (1)


shillingfarmer wrote:
        
Compaore is not yet filled up.

Oct 28, 2014 10:11pm EDT  --  Report as abuse


See All Comments »
Add Your Comment














					Read



British banker charged with murder of two women in Hong Kong
| 


2:55am EST 
Dollar surges versus yen, factory data weighs on stocks

7:38am EST 
Key function of crashed Virgin spacecraft deployed early: investigators

8:53am EST 
Iraqi Kurds join fight against Islamic State in Kobani
| 


3:29am EST 
China Oct PMIs point to cooling economic momentum, growth target at risk
| 


5:56am EST 













Pictures Pictures of the month: October Our top news photography from the last month.   Gallery  






 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  












































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.
































