BBC News - Burkina Faso's Blaise Compaore sacks his government 
BBC News - Burkina Faso's Blaise Compaore sacks his government












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada



















15 April 2011
Last updated at 21:58


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso's Blaise Compaore sacks his government


Analysts say President Blaise Compaore's grip on the army appears to be slipping


Continue reading the main story Related Stories

Country profile: Burkina Faso
Timeline: Burkina Faso


Burkina Faso's president has dissolved his government after members of his presidential guard went on an overnight rampage in the capital Ouagadougou.
Blaise Compaore named a new army chief and fired the head of his presidential guard after the unrest - apparently in protest against unpaid allowances.
Mr Compaore, in power since 1987, had sought to calm soldiers earlier this month after similar complaints.
Burkina Faso has been affected by the turmoil in neighbouring Ivory Coast.
The World Bank warned on Thursday that the Ivorian conflict had disrupted supplies and also pushed up prices for processed foods such as dried milk, sugar and vegetable oil in Burkina Faso and other landlocked countries in the region such as Mali and Niger.
Presidential grip slipping?
The dissolution of government was announced in a statement broadcast on national radio said.
"The secretary generals of ministerial departments will ensure the execution of current business," it said.
Mr Compaore had briefly fled the capital during a reported mutiny by his personal guard overnight. 
Gunfire was reported in the presidential compound and nearby barracks after demonstrators marched through the capital and other towns on Thursday, angered by rising food prices and alleged human rights abuses.
Unrest among soldiers in the capital quickly spread to other barracks and firing went on until just before dawn, says the BBC's Mathieu Bonkoungou in Ouagadougou. 
Residents were said to be so scared by the shootings that many stayed in their homes throughout Friday.
Mr Compaore has ruled the country since taking power in a coup from his friend Thomas Sankara 23 years ago.
He has since won four presidential elections, the latest in November 2010.
But analysts say his grip on the army appears to be slipping.
Earlier this year, students protested in several cities against the death in detention of a young man. Government buildings were torched and six students were killed. 
In March, soldiers went on the rampage and managed to free a number of colleagues arrested for rape. 




More on This Story

Related Stories


Country profile: Burkina Faso
22 JANUARY 2011, 
                        COUNTRY PROFILES


Timeline: Burkina Faso
19 APRIL 2011, 
                        COUNTRY PROFILES











Around the BBC


BBC World Service Africa podcasts


BBC Afrique



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top Stories



Boy given life for murdering teacher


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


Man admits killing his mother, 76,


HSBC reserves $378m in currency probe









Features




My evil dad

What's it like to be the daughter of a serial killer? 	
				  




Champion's fear

Why Chris Boardman won't let his daughter cycle on the road 	
				  




Relaxed grammar

Why typos and spelling mistakes don't really matter 	
				  




Advanced warfare Watch

Will new Call of Duty reinvigorate the franchise?  	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



4: UK Living Wage raised by 20p an hour



5: Teenage poppy seller burned in attack



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



3: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



4: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



5: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



6: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



7: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



8: 
    Viewpoint: 'Why I won't let my eight-year-old cycle on the road'  



9: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



10: 
    Microsoft ends retail sales of Windows 7 and 8  




Video/Audio




1: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Rail staff attacked at London Bridge Watch



5: Call of Duty hopes to thrill gamers Watch



6: Branson: Explosion claims 'hurtful' Watch



7: Is Japan 2020 stadium too big? In 60 secs Watch



8: Safety error' caused Virgin rocket crash Watch



9: Lynda Bellingham funeral takes place Watch



10: Boardman's cycling safety tips Watch























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    













