
      Burkina army imposes interim government after crowd burns parliament
| Reuters

 

      Burkina army imposes interim government after crowd burns parliament
| Reuters







 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Legal
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators




Opinion



Opinion Home
Ian Bremmer
Steven Brill
Hugo Dixon
Alison Frankel
Jim Gaines
Edward Hadas
Anatole Kaletsky
Mark Leonard
John Lloyd
David Rohde
Reihan Salam
Jack Shafer
Nicholas Wapshott
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers




Video










































Article
Comments (1)
Slideshow
Video
























Burkina army imposes interim government after crowd burns parliament

By Mathieu Bonkoungou and Joe Penney

OUAGADOUGOU  
Thu Oct 30, 2014 7:55pm EDT



1 Comments




Tweet





Share this

Email
Print





























1 of 13. 
                                                People load goods looted from a building, which according to locals, belongs to Francois Compaore, the younger brother of Burkina Faso's President Blaise Compaore, in Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso, October 30, 2014.  
Credit: Reuters/Joe Penney





Related Video



Burkina army chief announces creation of transitional government
Thu, Oct 30 2014

Protesters march on Burkina presidency, set parliament ablaze
Thu, Oct 30 2014





Related News


Burkina army chief announces creation of transitional governmentThu, Oct 30 2014



Analysis & Opinion


QE gave emerging markets brief gains, lasting pain

Hong Kong protests reach polite impasse





Related Topics


World »
France »






OUAGADOUGOU (Reuters) - Burkina Faso's military dissolved parliament and announced a transitional government on Thursday after violent protests against President Blaise Compaore, but it was not immediately clear who was in charge.
Army chief General Honore Traore said the new government would be installed after consultation with all political parties and would lead the country to an election within 12 months. He also announced a curfew from 1900 to 0600 GMT (1500 to 0200 ET). The move came after tens of thousands of angry protesters packed the streets of Ouagadougou on Thursday to demand Compaore's departure, storming parliament and setting it on fire and ransacking state television. At least three protesters were shot dead and scores wounded when security forces opened fire on the crowd. "Given the need preserve the country from chaos and preserve national unity ... the National Assembly is dissolved, the government is dissolved," Traore told a news conference.However, he declined to say whether Compaore, whose attempt to extend his 27-year rule has sparked months of tension in the landlocked country, remained the head of state. Regional West African bloc ECOWAS had said earlier on Thursday that it would not accept any party seizing power through non-constitutional means - suggesting diplomatic pressure to leave Compaore in place. Before the military's announcement, the president had issued his own statement announcing a state of emergency to be enforced by the army and calling for talks with the opposition.The protests were sparked by the government's attempt to push a constitutional change through parliament to allow the 63-year-old president to seek reelection next year. Large protests also erupted in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina's second biggest town, and Ouahigouya, in the north."BLAISE LEAVE"In the capital, the crowd faced off with security forces outside the presidential palace in a tense standoff that lasted several hours as opposition leaders held talks with senior military officials in an attempt to ease Compaore from power. Both opposition leaders and protesters on the streets have made it plain they would not allow any role for Compaore. Hundreds of angry protesters gathered outside the headquarters of the armed forces following the president's statement, many of them shouting "Blaise Leave" and "No More Blaise".     "We want Blaise Compaore to leave. We want change," said George Sawadogo, a 23-year-old student.    The departure of Compaore, a close military ally of the United States and former colonial power France, would be closely watched by other governments across West and Central Africa, where a number of long-serving leaders are reaching the end of their constitutional terms. Burkina Faso is one of the world's poorest nations but has positioned itself as a mediator in regional crises. It is also a key ally in Western operations against al Qaeda-linked groups in West Africa.Amid uncertainty over how the army's announcement would be received abroad, Ghana's Foreign Minister Hanna Tetteh said in a tweet the country's embassy in Burkina confirmed a military takeover of power. She declined to provide further details.White House spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan had earlier said in a statement that the United States was deeply concerned by the deteriorating situation in Burkina Faso and called on all parties to end the violence and respect democratic norms. France, which has a special forces base there that conducts operations across the Sahel, also appealed for restraint by all sides. Its embassy had held talks with opposition leaders on Thursday. CONCERN ABOUT PROSECUTIONCompaore has ruled the nation with a firm grip but has faced increasing criticism in recent years, including defections by members of his party. He weathered a military and popular uprising in 2011 thanks to the support of his elite presidential guard.Diplomatic pressure had mounted over the past year for Compaore to step down in 2015, amid calls from his own entourage for him to seek re-election, diplomats said.A letter from French President Francois Hollande to Compaore earlier this month, seen by Reuters, offered France's support in finding him a job with an international organization.Diplomats, however, say Compaore has been concerned at the possibility of losing his immunity from prosecution, particularly in the wake of the trial of former Liberian leader Charles Taylor in the Hague.Burkina Faso's former president Thomas Sankara, a leftist leader dubbed Africa's Che Guevara, was killed in the coup that swept Compaore to power. Protesters in the streets of Ouagadougou waved photographs of Sankara and signs reading "Sankara look at your sons. We are fighting your fight."At the headquarters of state television, which was forced off the air after the building was taken, jubilant protesters posed on the set of the evening news program.Burkina Faso, the fourth largest gold producer in Africa, has attracted several goldminers including TrueGold TGV.M, IamGold (IMG.TO) and Randgold Resources (RRS.L). (Additional reporting by Daniel Flynn, David Lewis and Bate Felix in Dakar, Joe Bavier and Ange Aboa in Abidjan, John Irish in Paris; Writing by Daniel Flynn; Editing by Tom Heneghan)
FILED UNDER: 
World
France







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints
























 





We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (1)


Lepetit wrote:
        
I imagine there are few countries in the world where people do not loathe their rulers. One scenario here is, they’ll lynch this kleptocrat and replace him with another one.

Oct 30, 2014 2:51pm EDT  --  Report as abuse


See All Comments »
Add Your Comment














					Read



Key function of crashed Virgin spacecraft deployed early: investigators

8:53am EST 
Dollar surges versus yen, factory data weighs on stocks

7:38am EST 
British banker charged with murder of two women in Hong Kong
| 


2:55am EST 
Pro-Russian rebels name leader in Ukraine as crisis deepens
| 


7:56am EST 
To salvage his presidency, Obama faces pressure to reboot - but will he?

02 Nov 2014 













Pictures Pictures of the month: October Our top news photography from the last month.   Gallery  






 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  












































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.
































