
      Burkina Faso opposition parties, African Union reject army takeover
| Reuters

 

      Burkina Faso opposition parties, African Union reject army takeover
| Reuters







 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Legal
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators




Opinion



Opinion Home
Ian Bremmer
Steven Brill
Hugo Dixon
Alison Frankel
Jim Gaines
Edward Hadas
Anatole Kaletsky
Mark Leonard
John Lloyd
David Rohde
Reihan Salam
Jack Shafer
Nicholas Wapshott
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers




Video











































Article
Comments (1)
Slideshow
Video

























Burkina Faso opposition parties, African Union reject army takeover

By Mathieu Bonkougou and Nadoun Coulibaly

OUAGADOUGOU  
Sat Nov 1, 2014 5:00pm EDT



1 Comments




Tweet





Share this

Email
Print





























1 of 9. 
                                                Lieutenant Colonel Yacouba Isaac Zida attends a news conference in which he was named president at military headquarters in Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso November 1, 2014. 
Credit: Reuters/Joe Penney





Related Video



Burkina Faso announces new transitional leader
Sat, Nov 1 2014

Zida 'Burkina Faso head of state'
Sat, Nov 1 2014





Related News


African Union calls for civilian-led transition in Burkina FasoSat, Nov 1 2014Burkina Faso army backs presidential guard official to lead transitionSat, Nov 1 2014Former Burkina president Compaore arrives in Ivory Coast: sourcesSat, Nov 1 2014



Analysis & Opinion


Obama’s ‘crisis of competence’ drags down the Democrats

Hong Kong protests reach polite impasse





Related Topics


World »






OUAGADOUGOU (Reuters) - Burkina Faso's opposition parties and the African Union rejected the army's seizure of power in the West African country on Saturday after the resignation of President Blaise Compaore, setting the stage for fresh protests.
The military top brass named Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida, deputy commander of the elite presidential guard, as head of state on Saturday. A power struggle within the armed forces was resolved by sidelining the chief of staff.Zida, who has operational control over the army's best trained and equipped unit, had declared himself interim president in an early morning radio address, overruling military chief General Honore Traore's claim to lead a transitional government following Compaore's departure.One of Africa's long-serving rulers, Compaore stepped down on Friday after two days of mass demonstrations against his attempts to change the constitution to extend his 27 years in power. At least three people were killed after protesters stormed the parliament building and set it on fire. On the dusty streets of Ouagadougou, the capital, protesters voiced anger that they had driven out Compaore - who seized power in a 1987 military coup - only to have another soldier imposed on them."The victory of the popular uprising - and consequently the management of the transition - belongs to the people and should not in any way be confiscated by the army," a coalition of opposition parties and civil society groups said in a statement after talks on Saturday."Our consultation reaffirmed that this transition should be democratic and civilian in character," it said, announcing a demonstration in the vast Place de la Nation for Sunday morning.The unfolding crisis in the poor, landlocked nation is being closely watched by the United States and former colonial power France, which were close military allies of Compaore. Under his rule, Burkina Faso became a key ally in operations against al Qaeda-linked groups in West Africa.The United States could freeze military cooperation if it judges a coup has taken place. Washington on Friday urged a peaceful transition to elections, respecting constitutional rules.Under Burkina Faso's 1991 constitution, the head of parliament should take office if the president resigns, with a mandate to organize elections within 90 days. However, the army has dissolved the legislature and suspended the constitution.In a statement issued by military leaders after meeting to appoint Zida to power, they said the form and duration of the transition would be decided in consultation with all sections of society. Troops loyal to Zida patrolled the quiet streets of Ouagadougou on Saturday following his early morning radio announcement that he was taking over as head of state to avoid a descent into anarchy and to ensure a democratic transition."This is not a coup d'etat but a popular uprising," Zida said, dressed in military fatigues, in the studio of BF1 television. "I salute the memory of the martyrs of this uprising and bow to the sacrifices made by our people." He appealed for the African Union and West African regional bloc ECOWAS to show their support for the transition.    But, in a strongly worded statement, the African Union called for the military to hand power over to civilian authorities. It said the Peace and Security Council -- the arm of the 54-nation bloc that imposes sanctions for violations of democratic process -- would discuss the situation on Monday."The Chairperson of the (African Union) Commission ... stresses the duty and obligation of the defense and security forces to place themselves at the disposal of the civilian authorities who should lead the transition," read the statement.COMPAORE IN IVORY COASTIn the Place de la Nation, the epicenter of this week's massive demonstrations, many people voiced anger at what they saw as an attempt by the military to subvert their uprising."It's ridiculous. It's just replacing Blaise with a little Blaise," said Frederic Ouedraogo. "The presidential guard opened fire on the crowd. If were able to get rid of Blaise, then he (Zida) will not be able to stop us. He is going to go, too!"The events in Burkina Faso will also be carefully followed by other governments in West and Central Africa. Several long-serving leaders are reaching the end of their constitutional terms in several countries in the region, including Benin, Congo Republic and Democratic Republic of Congo.The government of neighboring Ivory Coast said on Saturday that Compaore had arrived there with his family and entourage but did not specify his location. Military sources said he was staying at a presidential retreat in the coastal resort of Assinie, to the east of the economic capital, Abidjan. It was the seventh time that a military officer had taken over as head of state in Burkina Faso since it won independence from France in 1960. It was previously known as Upper Volta. Troops loyal to Zida deployed at strategic points across the capital on Saturday night, though an evening curfew was pushed back by three hours to 2200 GMT (1800 EDT). The airport was also reopened. Land borders remained closed. Despite being one of the world's poorest nations, Burkina Faso positioned itself as a key mediator in regional crises under the stewardship of the imposing Compaore, popularly known as 'Handsome Blaise', who was renowned as a skilled negotiator and a wily, ruthless politician. A taciturn former soldier who had survived several bids to oust him after he seized power in a 1987 military coup, Compaore  initially sought to defy the calls for him to step down once the protests turned violent on Thursday.Diplomats said Compaore - widely blamed for the death of his friend, the leftwing revolutionary Thomas Sankara, in the 1987 coup - was alarmed at the possibility of prosecution on rights charges if he left office.But his bid to cling to the presidency - and its lavish trappings - angered many young people in a country stagnating in 183rd place out of 186 countries on the U.N. human development index. With an average age of less than 18, most of the country's 17 million population have never known another leader.Crowds danced, cheered and blew whistles in Place de la Nation on Friday after Compaore's resignation, before the army announced it was taking charge."This is a 'sub-Saharan Spring' and it must continue against all the presidents who are trying to hang on to power in Africa," said law student Lucien Trinnou on Friday, referring to the Arab Spring that toppled several long-term leaders. (Writing and additional reporting by Daniel Flynn; Editing by Gareth Jones, Larry King)
FILED UNDER: 
World







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints
























 





We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (1)


sorrymess wrote:
        
yeh  seem like another Spring taking place.

Nov 01, 2014 10:30pm EDT  --  Report as abuse


See All Comments »
Add Your Comment














					Read



Key function of crashed Virgin spacecraft deployed early: investigators

8:53am EST 
Dollar surges versus yen, factory data weighs on stocks

7:38am EST 
British banker charged with murder of two women in Hong Kong
| 


2:55am EST 
Pro-Russian rebels name leader in Ukraine as crisis deepens
| 


7:56am EST 
To salvage his presidency, Obama faces pressure to reboot - but will he?

02 Nov 2014 














Pictures Pictures of the month: October Our top news photography from the last month.   Gallery  






 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  













































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.
































