BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Voices from Ouagadougou 







BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Voices from Ouagadougou
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























2 November 2014
Last updated at 22:21


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso crisis: Voices from Ouagadougou


Soldiers fired shots at the national television headquarters, forcing protesters to disperse


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Tensions mount in Burkina Faso Watch


Looting and damage Watch


Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore



The situation is tense in Burkina Faso's capital, after demonstrators protested against the army and soldiers fired shots near the state TV station.
The BBC's Laeila Adjovi has been speaking to people on the streets of Ouagadougou.
'Country in chaos'
Protester Amadou Yamiro: "This morning we came out, because up until now the situation is not clear. We still don't have a leader for our country. We don't want the army to be in power, especially the special presidential regiment. 
We went to the national TV to try to understand what is going to happen, and while a colonel was reassuring us, some troops arrived and started to shoot, and we are told it was the presidential regiment again, the same ones that shot people [during unrest] on the 30th [October], the ones that killed many people. 
We have a message for our security forces: if the army don't take responsibility, the presidential regiment is going to put chaos in this country. The presidential guard with [transitional leader Lieutenant Colonel Isaac] Zida, will put this country into chaos."



'Angry at the opposition'


Thousands of protesters rallied against the military

Protester Franck Aitchedji: "I am angry at opposition parties. Last night they told us to come out and protest this morning at eight. 
I had things to do you know, I have a family to feed, I have five kids. But still I came out, but they did not have anything to say. I had to go home and try to get some news, so they could have just gone and talked on the local radios then.
In all our families, there are problems, but when things get hot, we want to see the head of families. Where are they now? Even if they are threatened, even if they have problems, they should be there with us on Revolution Square [a popular name for the capital's square, Place de la Nation]. 
A political struggle is a fight to change the balance of forces. If the military know they have troops, then political parties know they have militants. 
So they should have been here with us and we would have marched together towards the presidential palace, and that way, [Col] Zida would have known that they are people to back the opposition. 
But if opposition leaders stay home, if they are nowhere to be found, how will they deal with the power struggle? 
Today, we are angry at them, because they are the ones who made this possible for the military. But we, the people, we won't be silenced: You can walk on the testicles of a blind man for a long time, but one day, he will come back at you with his cane."



'They beat me'


The military moved protesters from the state TV station and the capital's main square

Another protester, who did not wish to be named, said he was in the state TV compound when shots were fired, and was attacked by soldiers. He said he was beaten on his back and arm.
"The military came, and they fired shots in the air. Almost 10 military vehicles arrived, and they shot in the air. We lay on the ground. Then they got in, and went around the building to beat us. 
Three people beat me. There were a lot of us, maybe hundreds of people in there, and we all got beaten. Some fled, climbed the wall and went to hide."




More on This Story


Related Stories



Tensions mount in Burkina Faso Watch

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Looting and damage Watch

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore's years in power explained Watch

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA












Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top Stories



Boy given life for murdering teacher


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


Man admits killing his mother, 76,


HSBC reserves $378m in currency probe









Features




My evil dad

What's it like to be the daughter of a serial killer? 	
				  




Northern star

Should all English cities be more like Manchester? 	
				  




Champion's fear

Why Chris Boardman won't let his daughter cycle on the road 	
				  




Relaxed grammar

Why typos and spelling mistakes don't really matter 	
				  




Advanced warfare Watch

Will new Call of Duty reinvigorate the franchise?  	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



4: UK Living Wage raised by 20p an hour



5: Teenage poppy seller burned in attack



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



3: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



4: Lynda Bellingham funeral takes place Watch



5: Rail staff attacked at London Bridge Watch



6: Branson: Explosion claims 'hurtful' Watch



7: Safety error' caused Virgin rocket crash Watch



8: Call of Duty hopes to thrill gamers Watch



9: Is Japan 2020 stadium too big? In 60 secs Watch



10: Inside the UK's biggest salt mine Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    













