Wreckage of Air Algerie plane carrying 116 people reportedly found in Mali - NY Daily News 

Wreckage of Air Algerie plane carrying 116 people reportedly found in Mali - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Wreckage of Air Algerie plane carrying 116 people reportedly found in Mali French President Francois Hollande's office has said a military team found no survivors at the crash site in Mali, but recovered a black box. Navigation services lost contact with Flight AH5017, traveling from Burkina Faso to Algiers, early Thursday.   BY   Meg Wagner   NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Thursday, July 24, 2014, 6:21 AM Updated: Friday, July 25, 2014, 4:33 PM  A A A        Share this URL                  AHMED OUOBA/AFP/Getty Images An official shows the area where an Air Algerie plane is supposed to have crashed in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.    Kevin Cleynhens/AP The missing plane was carrying 110 passengers and six crew members.    Thomas Noack / Reuters An Air Algerie plane (not the one pictured) went missing just 50 minutes after taking off.    Previous Next       Enlarge   
	An Air Algerie flight from Burkina Faso to Algeria that disappeared Thursday with more than 100 people on board has reportedly been found crashed in Mali.

	The 'disintegrated' wreckage was located in the Gossi region, near the border of Burkina Faso, according to a message posted on French President Francois Hollande's website. A French military team found no survivors at the site, but recovered one black box.

	An airport official previouslly told NBC News wreckage from the plane was found in Mali, where the flight lost contact with ground crews less than an hour after it took off.    Benoit Tessier/Reuters The office of French President Francois Hollande has confirmed that the wreckage has been located in Mali's Gossi region and a military team is en route to the area.   

	Soon after reports that Mariela Castro, Fidel Castro's niece, was on the plane, she dispelled those rumors and said she was alive, well and in Havana.

	Earlier Thursday, an unnamed Algerian aviation official said the plane — which carried 110 passengers and six crew members — crashed but did not give details of where it went down or what caused the disaster.       MAHMOUD ZAYYAT/AFP/Getty Images 
	Shaima Daher, 8, who was with her mother and two brothers aboard the lost Air Algerie plane. Enlarge      MAHMOUD ZAYYAT/AFP/Getty Images 
	The Daher family waits for news of their loved ones at home in the southern Lebanese village of Srifa. Enlarge  
	Shaima Daher, 8, who was with her mother and two brothers aboard the lost Air Algerie plane. The family waits for news of their loved ones at home in the southern Lebanese village of Srifa.
  

	"I can confirm that it has crashed," the official told Reuters.

	Air Algerie has not confirmed the alleged crash.       EPA Algerian Minister of Transport Amar Ghoul (right) chairs an Algerian crisis unit meeting at the Houari-Boumediene International Airport in Algiers on Thursday. Malian President Ibrahim Boubakar Keita told journalists at the presidential palace in Bamako that wreckage of the missing Air Algerie plane had been located between Kidal and Tessalit in the far north of the country.     CHRISTOPHE KARABA/EPA French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius speaks to the media about the missing Air Algerie flight at the Quai d'Orsay in Paris on Thursday.    Previous Next      Enlarge  

	The plane took off from Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso, at  9:17 p.m. EDT Wednesday (1:17 a.m. local time Thursday).

	It sent its last message around 9:30 p.m. EDT. In that final call, the plane crew asked Niger air control to change the jet's route because of heavy rains, Burkina Faso Transport Minister Jean Bertin Ouedraogo said.    PABLO PORCIUNCULA/AFP/Getty Images Mariela Castro, daughter of Cuban President Raul Castro and the director of the Cuban National Center for Sex Education, dispelled rumours that she was on the flight.   

	Ground crews lost all contact with the jet about around 9:55 p.m. EDT.

	It was scheduled to land in Algiers, Algeria’s capital, just after midnight EDT, or 5:10 a.m. local time   Condolences to the presidents of Algeria and France following the crash of flight #AH5017 http://t.co/JCr5RYfsg4, http://t.co/FHf8iaET8E— President of Russia (@KremlinRussia_E) July 24, 2014
 

	A crew of six people and 110 passengers were on board the McDonnell Douglas MD-83.

	The jet is operated by Madrid-based Swiftair. All crew members on board are Spanish, Spain’s El Pais newspaper reported.      

	All the passengers on the plane were in transit to Europe, the Middle East or Canada, an Air Algerie representative said at a Thursday press conference.

	The list of passengers includes: 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso nationals, eight Lebanese, six Algerians, five Canadians, four Germans, two Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgium, one Egyptian, one Ukrainian, one Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.    REUTERS/Xavier Larrosa The missing plane is a McDonnell Douglas MD-83, operated by Madrid-based Swiftair.   

	France dispatched fighter jets to look for the plane along its probable route. Niger has also sent planes to reach along its border with Mali.

	The last time navigation contacted the plane, it was flying over Gao, Mali, an Algerian authority told Reuters.    Google Maps The normal flight path from Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, to Algiers, Algeria, is almost straight.   

	While the complete flight path was not immediately clear, Ougadougou is in a nearly straight line south of Algiers, passing over Mali, where unrest continues in the north.

	The Federal Aviation Administration advises operators to avoid flying into, out of and over Mali “due to insurgent activity.”    Our hearts go out to all on board Air Algerie #AH5017 and their loved ones. We share your grief. #staystrong #GE222 #MH17— Malaysia Airlines (@MAS) July 24, 2014
 

	Northern Mali fell under control of ethnic separatists and then Islamic extremists following a military coup in 2012. A French-led intervention last year scattered the extremists, but the rebels have pushed back against the government, continuing the conflict.

	The disappearance comes a week after Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 was shot down over east Ukraine. The crash killed all 298 people on board the Boeing 777. Satellites determined that a missile took down the commercial jet, but it is not clear who launched the rocket.      AFP PHOTO/ECPAD French soldiers standing by the wreckage of the Air Algerie flight AH5017, which crashed in Mali's Gossi region, west of Gao, on July 24.    ECPAD/Handout via Reuters  The crash site of Air Algerie flight AH5017 is seen near the northern Mali town of Gossi.    AFP PHOTO/ECPAD All on board the Air Algerie passenger plane that crashed in Mali on July 24 died in the tragedy.    AFP PHOTO/ECPAD The Air Algerie sign on a piece of debris at the crash site of the Air Algerie flight AH5017 in Mali's Gossi region, west of Gao.     Previous Next        Enlarge  

	On Wednesday, TransAsia Airways Flight GE222 crashed during an attempted emergency landing in Typhoon-swept Taiwan. That crashed killed 48 of the 58 people on board.  

	In March, Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 disappeared on its way from Malaysia to China. No wreckage was found.  

	Malaysia Airlines tweeted its condolences to those passengers and their families on both the missing Air Algerie and the crashed TransAsia planes.

	Russian President Vladimir Putin tweeted similar sentiments — ironic considering mounting criticism against him in relation to MH17.

	In March 2003, a domestic Air Algerie flight crashed just after takeoff, killing 102 people. Only one passenger survived, CNN reported. 

With News Wire Services

This is a developing story. Check back for updates.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH VIDEO HERE.    Related Stories  Mariela Castro NOT ABOARD doomed plane       Pilot 'chief suspect' in plane's disappearance: cops       Malaysia Airlines pilot filmed training before disappearance       Missing Malaysia Airlines plane sparks conspiracy theories       Debris may solve mystery of plane’s disappearance       Two Americans on missing Air France Flight 447 plane; lightning strike eyed in disappearance          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Man shoots and kills ex-girlfriend's boyfriend, himself      A love triangle turned deadly when a man fatally blasted his ex-girlfriend’s new beau with a shotgun in Long Island Sunday night and then committed suicide, cops said.       Driver ejected from car and killed after Belt Parkway crash      A speeding 27-year-old driver died after he was ejected from his car and the vehicle plunged off an elevated highway in Brooklyn early Monday, cops said.       Philly father-daughter duo beat man with bat, shoot with gun: cops      A father-daughter duo in Philadelphia has been charged in an apparent act of vigilante justice after they beat and shot a homeless man suspected of breaking into neighborhood cars, police say.       Boy, 8, killed by flying puck at French ice hockey match      A young ice hockey fan was tragically killed after being hit by a flying puck while watching a game in France.       Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life      Brittany Maynard, the cancer-stricken Californian who became the face of the “death with dignity” movement when she relocated to Oregon and announced plans to take her own life, completed the act Saturday.       SEE IT: Fireball meteor explode as it plunges toward Earth      A meteor has been caught on camera lighting up the night. Spectacular time-lapse footage shows the gigantic space rock slamming into the Earth's atmosphere at around 180,000 mph.       Angie Harmon, Jason Sehorn split       Angie Harmon and Jason Sehorn have called it quits. The 42-year-old actress and former New York Giant, 43, have decided to amicably separate after 13 years of marriage, a rep for Harmon confirmed to People magazine.       Virgin Galactic mishap likely pilot error: officials      A fatal crash won’t stop Richard Branson from reaching for the stars with his commercial space program.
       Fla. Navy vet saves 76-year-old from purse snatcher      Kendrick Taylor was reportedly heading to the gym in Orange County Wednesday when he spotted Rosemary Carelton being attacked       Chopper crew suspended for dropping candy at Halloween party      A National Guard chopper crew scared Arizona residents by making a midair candy drop to a private Halloween party in their Black Hawk have been suspended.       Supreme Court to hear case on Israeli passport      THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 

      The Supreme Court is taking its second look at a dispute over the wording of U.S. passports for Americans born in Jerusalem, a case with potential foreign policy implications in the volatile Middle East.       Wash. state attorney dresses up as Jedi to sue city for pot ban      Rick Laws, wearing a white swath similar to Luke Skywalker in the 'Star Wars' movies, filed the motion against the city and four councilmen who voted to implement the restriction on Halloween.        Blaz praises Bratton, says there’s no conflict between them      In a strong show of support, Mayor de Blasio on Sunday called NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton “the finest police leader in the United States” and denounced a report of a rift between them.

       Drunk Neb. teen crash-lands pickup truck on 18-yard line: cops      The 16-year-old reportedly escaped with minor injuries following the horror smash on South High's Collins Field stadium in Omaha at 3 a.m. Sunday       Kurdish leader says forces will fight ISIS in Syria 'temporarily'      The prime minister of Iraq’s semiautonomous Kurdish region said his forces will only stay in Syria 'temporarily' as they seek to help defend the city of Kobani from ISIS militants.       Daredevil Nik Wallenda completes two Chicago skyscraper crossings       The 35-year-old high-wire artist, great-grandson of Karl Wallenda of the famous Flying Wallendas circus family, successfully walked on a tightrope between two Chicago skyscrapers Sunday night — then doubled down on the spectacle by donning a blindfold and doing another 600-foot-high walk.       Mom arrested over photo of 14-month-old son hanging from hook      Alexis Breeden, 18, turned herself in to Spotsylvania County Sheriff's Office last week after the disgusting image went viral and a felony warrant was issued for her arrest.       Parents say flu shot left Fla. girl bedridden, unable to speak      A flu shot meant to protect a Florida girl instead was the likely culprit that left the 10-year-old bedridden and mostly unable to speak.       Man, 58, critically injured after being struck while jaywalking on UES      A 58-year-old man was critically injured when he was struck by a car while jaywalking on the Upper East Side on Sunday night, police said.       Dinner cruise yacht runs aground off Governors Island      They had to sound the horn — for an SOS call. A luxury yacht, the Hornblower Hybrid, placed a vessel-in-distress call late Saturday night after it ran aground off Governors Island while carrying 94 passengers.              Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life     2   NBC meteorologist appears to relieve himself during broadcast     3   Alabama family conducted group sex ring with children: police     4   Woman busted for drugs also charged with having sex with dog      5   Virgin Galactic mishap likely pilot error: officials     6   Mom arrested over photo of 14-month-old son hanging from hook     7   Washington state soldier accused of killing 19-year-old wife free on bail     8   Sister of missing Mich. woman hopeful in search since she disappeared at Halloween party     9   Woman sexually abuses boy, 3, and has sex with dog: police     10   HIV-positive shoplifter tries to infect Texas Walmart worker: cops          1   VIDEO: Cute panda cubs avoid taking their medicine      2   Stricter laws against texting while driving take effect in New York     3   Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life     4   Parents say flu shot left Fla. girl bedridden, unable to speak     5   Woman devastated when she realizes she isn’t Nicki Minaj     6   NBC meteorologist appears to relieve himself during broadcast     7   N.C. cheerleaders chant the N-word during team photo at football game (VIDEO)     8   LOVETT: Gov. Cuomo’s reelection campaign said to widen rift with liberal  base     9   Daredevil Nik Wallenda completes two Chicago skyscraper crossings      10   Girl, 3, catches man in Tigger costume having sex in public toilet                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE      World News Video


    Time to take a break!      Test your skills with popular games including 7 Little Words, daily Sudoku, and crosswords.           


      








Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      