Burkina Faso protesters burn parliament, march toward presidential palace  - NY Daily News 

Burkina Faso protesters burn parliament, march toward presidential palace  - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Burkina Faso protesters burn parliament, march toward presidential palace   Angry demonstrators also take over state television in the West African nation. A vote to extend the president’s 27-year rule is canceled amid the violence.    REUTERS Thursday, October 30, 2014, 12:16 PM  A A A        Share this URL                ISSOUF SANOGO/AFP/Getty Images Fires burn outside parliament in Burkina Faso Thursday as protesters rail against plans to change the country’s constitution to allow President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year rule.    
	Thousands of protesters marched on Burkina Faso's presidential palace after burning the parliament building and ransacking state television offices on Thursday, forcing President Blaise Compaore to scrap a plan to extend his 27-year rule.

	Emergency services said at least three protesters were shot dead and several others wounded by security forces when the crowd tried to storm the home of Compaore's brother. Security forces also fired live rounds and tear gas at protesters near the presidency in the Ouaga 2000 neighborhood.

	Black smoke swirled in the air above parliament after demonstrators lit fires inside the building before looting computers and televisions screens and wheeling away police motor-bikes, a Reuters reporter said.    JOE PENNEY/REUTERS Soldiers try to stop  protesters from entering  parliament  in Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso on Thursday. Demonstrators later burned it to the ground.   

	Lawmakers had been due to vote on Thursday on a government plan to change the constitution to allow Compaore - who took power in a coup in 1987 - to stand for re-election next year, when he was due to stand down.

	Alain Edouard Traore, communications minister, later said the government had dropped the proposal to amend a two-term limit on the presidential mandate.    Theo Renaut/AP A car burns outside the parliament building in Burkina Faso as anti-government protesters set fires in the streets and burn government buildings Thursday.   

	But protesters told Reuters they would not stop until Compaore was forced to step aside. Burkinabe officials said there were also large-scale protests in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina's second biggest town, and Ouahigouya, to the north.

	"We did this because Blaise was trying to stay too long. We are tired of him," said Seydou Kabre, a protester in the crowd in Ouagadougou. "We want a change. He must go!"    JOE PENNEY/REUTERS A man watches cars burn at a hotel where members of  parliament were  staying in the Burkina Faso capital of Ouagadougou. Anti-government protesters seized state television  and set fire to parliament.   

	Most deputies had not yet arrived for the vote when protesters, who had set up barricades outside parliament from early on Thursday, stormed the building. The crowd surged forward after police fired warning shots in the air.

	A Reuters reporter saw nearby structures also on fire and vehicles outside the parliament being smashed.    Related Stories    Second black box found at Air Algerie AH5017 crash site            Air Algerie plane wreckage reportedly found           


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Man shoots and kills ex-girlfriend's boyfriend, himself      A love triangle turned deadly when a man fatally blasted his ex-girlfriend’s new beau with a shotgun in Long Island Sunday night and then committed suicide, cops said.       Driver ejected from car and killed after Belt Parkway crash      A speeding 27-year-old driver died after he was ejected from his car and the vehicle plunged off an elevated highway in Brooklyn early Monday, cops said.       Philly father-daughter duo beat man with bat, shoot with gun: cops      A father-daughter duo in Philadelphia has been charged in an apparent act of vigilante justice after they beat and shot a homeless man suspected of breaking into neighborhood cars, police say.       Boy, 8, killed by flying puck at French ice hockey match      A young ice hockey fan was tragically killed after being hit by a flying puck while watching a game in France.       Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life      Brittany Maynard, the cancer-stricken Californian who became the face of the “death with dignity” movement when she relocated to Oregon and announced plans to take her own life, completed the act Saturday.       SEE IT: Fireball meteor explode as it plunges toward Earth      A meteor has been caught on camera lighting up the night. Spectacular time-lapse footage shows the gigantic space rock slamming into the Earth's atmosphere at around 180,000 mph.       Angie Harmon, Jason Sehorn split       Angie Harmon and Jason Sehorn have called it quits. The 42-year-old actress and former New York Giant, 43, have decided to amicably separate after 13 years of marriage, a rep for Harmon confirmed to People magazine.       Virgin Galactic mishap likely pilot error: officials      A fatal crash won’t stop Richard Branson from reaching for the stars with his commercial space program.
       Fla. Navy vet saves 76-year-old from purse snatcher      Kendrick Taylor was reportedly heading to the gym in Orange County Wednesday when he spotted Rosemary Carelton being attacked       Chopper crew suspended for dropping candy at Halloween party      A National Guard chopper crew scared Arizona residents by making a midair candy drop to a private Halloween party in their Black Hawk have been suspended.       Supreme Court to hear case on Israeli passport      THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 

      The Supreme Court is taking its second look at a dispute over the wording of U.S. passports for Americans born in Jerusalem, a case with potential foreign policy implications in the volatile Middle East.       Wash. state attorney dresses up as Jedi to sue city for pot ban      Rick Laws, wearing a white swath similar to Luke Skywalker in the 'Star Wars' movies, filed the motion against the city and four councilmen who voted to implement the restriction on Halloween.        Blaz praises Bratton, says there’s no conflict between them      In a strong show of support, Mayor de Blasio on Sunday called NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton “the finest police leader in the United States” and denounced a report of a rift between them.

       Drunk Neb. teen crash-lands pickup truck on 18-yard line: cops      The 16-year-old reportedly escaped with minor injuries following the horror smash on South High's Collins Field stadium in Omaha at 3 a.m. Sunday       Kurdish leader says forces will fight ISIS in Syria 'temporarily'      The prime minister of Iraq’s semiautonomous Kurdish region said his forces will only stay in Syria 'temporarily' as they seek to help defend the city of Kobani from ISIS militants.       Daredevil Nik Wallenda completes two Chicago skyscraper crossings       The 35-year-old high-wire artist, great-grandson of Karl Wallenda of the famous Flying Wallendas circus family, successfully walked on a tightrope between two Chicago skyscrapers Sunday night — then doubled down on the spectacle by donning a blindfold and doing another 600-foot-high walk.       Teen mom arrested over Facebook photo of 14-month-old son hanging from hook      Alexis Breeden, 18, turned herself in to Spotsylvania County Sheriff's Office last week after the disgusting image went viral and a felony warrant was issued for her arrest.       Parents say flu shot left Fla. girl bedridden, unable to speak      A flu shot meant to protect a Florida girl instead was the likely culprit that left the 10-year-old bedridden and mostly unable to speak.       Man, 58, critically injured after being struck while jaywalking on UES      A 58-year-old man was critically injured when he was struck by a car while jaywalking on the Upper East Side on Sunday night, police said.       Dinner cruise yacht runs aground off Governors Island      They had to sound the horn — for an SOS call. A luxury yacht, the Hornblower Hybrid, placed a vessel-in-distress call late Saturday night after it ran aground off Governors Island while carrying 94 passengers.              Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life     2   NBC meteorologist appears to relieve himself during broadcast     3   Alabama family conducted group sex ring with children: police     4   Woman busted for drugs also charged with having sex with dog      5   Virgin Galactic mishap likely pilot error: officials     6   Teen mom arrested over Facebook photo of 14-month-old son hanging from hook     7   Washington state soldier accused of killing 19-year-old wife free on bail     8   Sister of missing Mich. woman hopeful in search since she disappeared at Halloween party     9   Woman sexually abuses boy, 3, and has sex with dog: police     10   HIV-positive shoplifter tries to infect Texas Walmart worker: cops          1   VIDEO: Cute panda cubs avoid taking their medicine      2   Stricter laws against texting while driving take effect in New York     3   Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life     4   Parents say flu shot left Fla. girl bedridden, unable to speak     5   Woman devastated when she realizes she isn’t Nicki Minaj     6   NBC meteorologist appears to relieve himself during broadcast     7   N.C. cheerleaders chant the N-word during team photo at football game (VIDEO)     8   Daredevil Nik Wallenda completes two Chicago skyscraper crossings      9   Girl, 3, catches man in Tigger costume having sex in public toilet     10   De Blasio's hopes for Democratic state Senate rely on races throughout NY                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE      World News Video


    Time to take a break!      Test your skills with popular games including 7 Little Words, daily Sudoku, and crosswords.           


      








Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      