Burkina Faso president pushed from power; protesters set parliament on fire - Africa - Stripes 
Burkina Faso president pushed from power; protesters set parliament on fire - Africa - Stripes










Monday November 3, 2014














Home

Blogs »

Stripes Central
Archive Photo of the Day
Spouse Calls
Good Game
Pacific Sports
Europe Sports
Europe Traveler
Pacific Storm Tracker
Ombudsman's Blog


Multimedia
Store
Weather
Site Map
Email Newsletters
Mobile Apps
e-Books
Veteran Home Loan Info
Veteran Jobs



News

U.S.
Veterans »

VA Loan Information
Veteran Job Center

Europe
Middle East
Pacific
Americas
Africa
Branches »

Army
Navy
Air Force
Marine Corps
Coast Guard


Special Reports »

Medal of Honor
Vietnam at 50
Wounded Warriors
Heroes
Suicide
PTSD
TBI
Stolen Valor
Don't Ask, Don't Tell
Sexual assault in the military
Civilian LQA
The Great Divide
Chaos at JPAC





Sports

Europe
Europe Sports Blog
Pacific
Pacific Sports Blog



Travel

Europe »

Destinations
Transportation
Lodging
Special Interest
Tips & Tools
Europe Traveler Blog


Pacific »

Destinations
Transportation
Lodging
Special Interest
Tips & Tools





Military Life

On the Move (PCS)
Education
Military History
Video Games »

Newspuzzle


Spouse Calls
Community Sites »

Stripes Guam
Stripes Japan
Stripes Korea
Stripes Okinawa





Opinion

Letters
Ombudsman



Classifieds

Europe
Pacific



Rewards

Book Club
Rules
Winners



Digital Editions

Stars and Stripes
Mideast Edition
Sunday Comics
Stripes Lite
Special Publications



Contact Us

Advertise with Us
Webmaster
Directory
Reporters
Site Map
Home Delivery
Stripes PrintShop
Jobs
About Us
Customer Service »

Contact Webmaster
Archives
Reprint Requests
eNewsletters

Home Delivery
Stripes Store
Stripes PrintShop






Home Delivery









Advertisement












Home/
News/
Africa





Burkina Faso president pushed from power; protesters set parliament on fire


 




In this photo taken Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014, a car burns after being set ablaze by protesters outside the parliament building in Burkina Faso. 






Theo Renaut/AP





By BRAHIMA OUEDRAOGO

The Associated Press
Published: October 31, 2014








 




 






 
Burkina Faso's new interim leader, Gen. Honore Nabere Traore, 3rd from left in front, speaks during a news conference in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, on Friday, Oct. 31, 2014, after President Blaise Compaore stepped down.
Theo Renaut/AP

 
Then-Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore, seen Tuesday, Sept, 18, 2012, in this Associated Press file photo.
Francois Mori/AP



Related







Pentagon dollars flowing into Africa
The Pentagon has begun a burst of spending in Africa, expanding its main base on the continent and investing in air facilities, flight services, telecommunications and electrical upgrades as the U.S. military deepens its involvement in a region with a rising threat of Islamist terrorism.








US and Africa air forces revive program promoting regional cooperation
A fledgling program bringing together U.S. airmen from Europe and the United States with their counterparts in western Africa is being revived after a lull related to budget constraints.




 

	OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso — The president of Burkina Faso stepped down Friday after protesters stormed parliament and set the building ablaze, ending the 27-year reign of one of Africa's longest-serving rulers.

	Confusion reigned late Friday over who was in charge: An army general quickly announced he was stepping into the vacuum left by departing President Blaise Compaore, but then a colonel later appeared to be vying for power.

	Gen. Honore Traore, the joint chief of staff, told a packed room of reporters that he would assume the presidency until elections were called. Later, an army statement read on television and attributed to Col. Yacouba Zida announced that the borders had been closed, and a transitional committee had been set up. Zida had earlier announced that the constitution had been suspended.

	When he resigned, Compaore had said a vote would be held in 90 days, but Zida said the "length and makeup of the transitional body will be decided later." It was not immediately clear who was put on the transitional committee.

	Over the course of several dramatic hours, Compaore went from looking likely to jam through parliament a bill that would let him seek a fifth term to agreeing to step down next year to abandoning office immediately.

	The quick succession of events took many by surprise, since Compaore had long out-maneuvered his adversaries and has in recent years become an important regional mediator. Burkina Faso hosts French special forces and serves as an important ally of both France and the United States in the fight against Islamic militants in West Africa.

	But French President Francois Hollande was quick to "salute" his decision to resign.

	Jen Psaki, spokesperson for the U.S. State Department, called for democratic elections.

	"We condemn any attempts by the military or other parties to take advantage of the situation for unconstitutional gain and call on all parties to respect the people's support for the democratic process," she said in a statement released late Friday.

	While he was respected on the international stage, critics noted that, under Compaore's semi-authoritarian rule, the country of 18 million people remained mired in poverty. The landlocked country's fortunes rise and fall with gold and cotton prices — and adequate rain in a region plagued by drought.

	Compaore's exit will have significance throughout the region, where many leaders have pushed through constitutional changes to prolong their rule and others are attempting to, said Africa expert Philippe Hugon.

	"It's obvious that what happened will have an echo in other countries," said Hugon of the Institute for Strategic and International Relations.

	In the end, Compaore was pushed from power by violent protests and an emboldened opposition that would accept nothing short of his resignation.

	"I declare that I'm leaving power," Compaore said in a statement. "For my part, I think I have fulfilled my duty."

	Thousands of opposition protesters gathered Friday in a square in the capital and burst into cheers when they heard the announcement of his resignation on hand-held radios.

	"This is a new revolution" and a chance to get it right, said Donald Fayama, a shopkeeper who was among the demonstrators. "At least tomorrow, we are not going to wake up with the same face of the same president."

	Compaore, 63, was headed south to the city of Po, near the border with Ghana, a French diplomatic official said on condition of anonymity, citing the sensitivity of the situation.

	The outgoing president was still in Burkina Faso on Friday afternoon, and it was not clear if he was trying to cross the border, the official said. He had not asked the French, who were once the country's colonial rulers, for any help.

	For months, an opposition coalition had been urging Compaore not to seek re-election. But Compaore and his ruling party appeared ready on Thursday to push through a bill that would have allowed him to run again.

	Determined to block the vote, protesters stormed the building, setting part of it on fire. At least three people were killed in the protests, according to Amnesty International, and dozens of demonstrators were shot.

	Images of flames enveloping the legislature, cars burning in the streets and protesters massing in the capital raised the specter of a long standoff. But events moved swiftly, with the government suspending the vote and the military announcing that the legislature had been dissolved and an interim government would be formed.

	After that, Compaore said he would lead until the new elections.

	Protesters rejected that plan and gathered again Friday, demanding that Compaore step down immediately.

	It was a sharp about-face for a ruler who had survived other attempts to overthrow his regime.

	Compaore first came to power following the October 1987 coup against then-President Thomas Sankara, Compaore's longtime friend and political ally who was killed in the power grab.

	For many, his legacy begins and ends with the death of Sankara, a well-regarded statesman whose death was widely viewed as a setback for the entire continent.

	Compaore has reinvented himself many times over the years. As a young man, he was in the military. He became justice minister when troops marched on Ouagadougou, the capital, in 1983 and installed Sankara as president. After he took power in his own coup, he developed a reputation as a meddler and a supporter of regional conflicts.

	He openly supported Charles Taylor, the Liberian warlord turned president, though he denied active involvement in the Liberian conflict. Compaore also was accused of supporting rebel groups in Ivory Coast and Angola.

	More recently, he has refashioned himself as an elder statesman who brokered electoral disputes and hostage releases throughout West Africa.

	Domestically, he kept a tight leash on any opposition, never groomed a viable political heir and fought off threats to his power. In 2011, waves of protests washed over Burkina Faso, challenging Compaore's rule, and mutinous soldiers occupied the palace at one point, forcing the president to flee.

	But what would have spelled the end for many presidents was a temporary problem for Compaore. He maneuvered to stay in power by removing his security chiefs and appointing himself defense minister before returning to Ouagadougou.

Associated Press writers Sylvie Corbet and Elaine Ganley in Paris contributed to this report.










 









Join the conversation and share your voice.

Show Comments
 



Comments Policy
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.






Advertisement










Most Read
Facebook
Reddit
Comments





Report says 60,000 veterans get triple benefits 
November 1, 2014


USS Denver sailor found not guilty of rape
November 3, 2014


Army Sgt. Issac Sims left the war in Iraq, but it didn’t leave him
November 2, 2014


Historic gate at Dachau concentration camp stolen 
November 2, 2014


Fort Bliss garrison commander relieved of duty
November 1, 2014


IG report criticizes former Wounded Warrior Care director
November 3, 2014


4 Utah Guardsmen disciplined for bikini film shoot 
November 1, 2014


Iwakuni's 'Mama-san' becomes Honorary Marine
November 9, 2011


Guam locked in billion-dollar waiting game with Congress on military move
November 3, 2014


Retired military officers' knowledge leads to another search for Earhart
November 1, 2014




















Advertisement









Readers' Choice
Vet Jobs
Book Club







Readers' Choice

                          Vote now for the Stripes Readers' Choice 2015 to nominate your favorite restaurants, leisure activities, travel destinations, services and stores in Germany for your chance to win.  Vote now!
                        








Vet Jobs

                          Find a job with an employer who values your military experience. Get started today!









Book Club

                          Stripes Book Club is giving away ten author-signed books! Be our next winner - enter today!
                        






Advertisement









Digital Editions



Email

 Headlines



Classified Ads



Events

 Calendar






AFN Schedule



AAFES Fuel Prices



Maps




Tweets by @starsandstripes












Home | 
Mobile Site | 
Archives | 
Stripes Lite | 
Ombudsman | 
Advertising | 
Rewards | 
About Us | 
Feedback

Contact Us | 
Newsletters | 
Twitter Feed | 
Site Map


Stars and Stripes | 
News | 
Sports | 
Military Life | 
Travel | 
Opinion


© 2014 Stars and Stripes. All Rights Reserved.

Disclaimer | 
Comment Policy | 
Web Notices and Privacy Policy | 
Archive content policy | 
Accessibility/Section 508






 

 


