Burkina Faso protesters demand president stands down - Telegraph 
Burkina Faso protesters demand president stands down - Telegraph

























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









NewSearch








		Monday 03 November 2014















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
Africa and Indian Ocean»
Burkina Faso











Burkina Faso protesters demand president stands down

Hundreds march in the capital of Burkina Faso and gather at army headquarters 
  day after president announces he will not stand down despite violent 
  protests resulting in dissolution of parliament












An army spokesman speaking to anti-government protesters on Thursday Photo: Joe Penney/Reuters









 



							By Agencies

9:45AM GMT 31 Oct 2014
 



Hundreds of protesters marched in the capital of Burkina Faso on Friday 
  demanding that President Blaise Compaore step down, a day after the military 
  dissolved parliament and announced a transitional government in the face of 
  mass protests and violence.


The demonstration came a day after Mr Compaore refused to give up power but 
  called off a state of emergency imposed after a violent uprising against his 
  27-year rule that saw parliament set ablaze.


"We don't want him. We want him out of power. He is not our president," 
  demonstrator Ouedrago Yakubo told Reuters. The demonstrators gathered at the 
  main Place de la Nation and before the army headquarters.


It remained unclear who was in charge of the country after an earlier 
  announcement by the army that it had taken control, dissolved parliament and 
  would put in place a transitional government.


Opposition figures said around 30 people had been killed and 100 injured as 
  tens of thousands took to the streets on Thursday in protest against plans 
  to allow Mr Compaore to extend his long reign.

Related Articles



Burkina Faso parliament in flames

30 Oct 2014



African protesters launch 'Black Spring’ in Burkina Faso

30 Oct 2014



Burkina Faso protesters set fire to parliament

30 Oct 2014



Burkina Faso demonstrators celebrate setting parliament alight

30 Oct 2014





Hundreds stormed parliament and other public buildings including the national 
  television headquarters in the capital Ougadougou, ransacking offices and 
  setting fire to cars despite a heavy police and army presence.


Mr Compaore initially called a state of emergency but appeared on television 
  just a few hours later to say it had been called off.


"I have heard the message," the president said.


But he refused to step down, saying instead that he was "available" for talks 
  on "a period of transition after which power will be transferred to a 
  democratically elected president".


At a hastily assembled press conference earlier in the day, the army said it 
  was imposing a dusk-to-dawn curfew. It pledged to restore constitutional 
  order within 12 months.


The communique, read out by an officer, was signed by the army chief of staff 
  Nabere Honore Traore.


A leading opposition member, Benewende Sankara, described the army's move as a 
  "coup" and said protesters would accept nothing less than the president's 
  immediate resignation.


Mr Compaore "is again in the process of duping the people," he said. "We have 
  been saying for a long time that he must hand in his resignation. His 
  departure is non-negotiable."


Mr Sankara and another opposition leader gave the death toll from the violence 
  as "around 30". AFP was only able to confirm four deaths and six seriously 
  injured, based partly on reports from the capital's main hospital.


The chaos erupted this week as lawmakers prepared to vote on legislation that 
  would allow 63-year-old Compaore - who took power in a 1987 coup - to 
  contest elections in November 2015.


The lawmakers called off the vote, but not before Burkina Faso plunged into 
  its worst crisis since a wave of mutinies shook the country in 2011.


Black smoke billowed out of smashed windows at the parliament building on 
  Thursday, where several offices were ravaged by flames.


Several hundred protesters also broke into the headquarters of the national 
  television station RTB, pillaging equipment and smashing cars, AFP 
  correspondents said.


The ruling party headquarters in the second city of Bobo Dioulasso and the 
  city hall were also torched by protesters, witnesses said.


The United States welcomed Mr Compaore's apparent decision to abandon his bid 
  for another term.


"We also welcome his decision to form a government of national unity to 
  prepare for national elections and to transfer power to a democratically 
  elected successor," said State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki in a 
  statement.


Former colonial power France appealed for calm and said it "deplored" the 
  violence.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon dispatched a special envoy to help restore calm and the 
  European Union called for an end to the violence.


Many of the tens of thousands massed on the streets of the capital called for 
  a retired general and former defence minister, Kouame Lougue, to take 
  control, shouting "Lougue in power!"


There were reports that army chief Traore had met with Lougue earlier in the 
  day to discuss the crisis.


Mr Compaore's bid to cling to power has angered many, particularly young 
  people, in a country where 60 percent of the population of almost 17 million 
  is under 25.


Many have spent their entire lives under the leadership of one man and, with 
  Burkina Faso stagnating at 183rd out of 186 countries on the UN human 
  development index, many have had enough.


The situation is being closely watched across Africa where at least four heads 
  of state are preparing or considering similar changes to stay in power, from 
  Burundi to Benin.


Mr Compaore was only 36 when he seized power in the coup in which his former 
  friend and one of Africa's most loved leaders, Thomas Sankara, was ousted 
  and assassinated.


He has remained in power since, re-elected president four times since 1991 - 
  to two seven-year and two five-year terms.


Known in colonial times as Upper Volta, the landlocked country became 
  independent from France in 1960 and its name was changed to Burkina Faso 
  ("the land of upright men") in 1984.










 








Burkina Faso





News »


World News »


Africa and Indian Ocean »









In Burkina Faso






 


Burkina Faso parliament in flames








 


Night of the Lion »








 


Rats detect land mines »








 


Turning the tables








 


'Finprinting' sharks








 















Read more World News





Republicans boost tech to win votes




 


 Video


The US Republican party is using technology to get real-time information about 
  North Carolina residents and potential voters 


Comments






Celebrity sightings




 




Conchita Wurst meets Ban Ki-moon






No, Angela Merkel hasn't issued an 'ultimatum' to David Cameron over EU migrants




 




Germany certainly doesn't want the UK to leave the EU, so suggestions that 
  Angela Merkel is happy to let Brexit happen are wide of the mark, says Mats 
  Persson


Comments






Islamic State advances on Homs in serious threat to Assad




 



As the world focuses on Kobane, jihadists have pressed deep inside Syria – advancing on both Idlib and Homs 





The world's most dangerous roads




 




As the most dangerous road in Britain is revealed, we take a look at other 
  routes where a healthy dose of caution is required


Comments






Switzerland shooting leaves three dead near Interlaken




 




Three bodies found in a Swiss car park after a reported shooting 






Australian 'idiot' surfs dead whale as sharks circle




 


 Video


Australian Harrison Williams thought 'it would be pretty funny' to risk his 
  life by jumping into shark-infested waters in a bizarre attempt to surf a 
  dead whale 






Day of the Dead celebrations around the world




 




Dia de Muertos festival, in pictures 








Future of money: welcome to cashless Sweden




 


 Video


Sweden printed Europe's first bank notes 350 years ago.  Now the country is 
  leading the way to cashless payments






Live view of Turkey-Syria border near Kobane




WATCH LIVE


Live video


Live scenes from Suruc in Turkey, 4kms from the Syrian border, where Iraqi 
  Peshmerga troops are stationed









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook







Advertisement










More from the web







Advertisement











More from the web 











News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Hong Kong murders: British suspect 'devastated' by fiancee's betrayal
MPs to escape expenses investigations after paperwork destroyed by Parliament
Cancer sufferer Brittany Maynard ends life aged 29
Australian 'idiot' surfs dead whale as sharks circle
Hong Kong police 'investigate thousands of images of dead bodies on Rurik Jutting's phone'




Life under Obama sucks. And these numbers prove it
Alfie, 13, is not baby's father
Cameron shoved by 'jogger' in major security breach
Pianist Maria Jo o Pires panics as she realises the orchestra has started the wrong concerto
'Evil clowns' stalk France




Dwarf stripper gets bride pregnant on her hen night
Escape from North Korea: 'How I escaped horrors of life under Kim Jong-il'
Renee Zellweger: what has happened to her face?
Oscar Pistorius sentence live: judgment day
Alfie, 13, is not baby's father










Advertisement











More from the web»




















MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK








 
				Football




 




						Catch up on all the latest football news



						View







 
				Barnebys




 




						A toilet, a tooth, it's the world’s weirdest auction lots



						View







 
				Audi




 




						Audi R18 in pictures



						View







 
				Goodwood




 




						The very best of Goodwood's Moving Motor Show in pictures



						View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence
Health

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact Us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2014
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































