Burkina Faso’s president declares state of emergency after protests erupt | Toronto Star  
Burkina Faso’s president declares state of emergency after protests erupt | Toronto Star





































Monday, November 3, 2014
9:10 AM EST





the star.com
World







Search the archives



















Home

News

GTA
Queen's Park
Canada
World
Investigations
Crime



Your Toronto

City Nights
Schools
The Fixer
Reviews
Traffic



Opinion

Editorials
Commentary
Readers' Letters
Public Editor
Corrections
Editorial Cartoon



Sports

Hockey
Baseball
Basketball
Football
Soccer
Amateur
Tennis
Golf
Figure Skating
Curling
Lacrosse



Business

Economy
Personal Finance
Tech News
Real Estate



Entertainment

Television
Movies
Stage
Music
Books
Visual Arts



Life

Technology
Food & Wine
Travel
Fashion & Style
Homes
Health & Wellness
Parent



Autos


Photos


Diversions

Classifieds
Obituaries







Inside the Star





Bike that crossed Canada stolen outside Toronto bar





Our kids, our future and two competing visions for voters: Tim Harper





Does Canada Border Services Agency need oversight?







News 
  				
  			/ World


Burkina Faso’s president declares state of emergency after protests erupt
Protesters surged passed police lines Thursday and broke into Burkina Faso’s parliament ahead of a vote to allow Blaise Compaore to run again.







Share on Facebook


Tweet

















A
A


 




Report an Error








Share via Email
Print



























Riots spread in the capital of Burkina Faso after at least three people were shot dead and several other wounded in clashes with security forces. Pavithra George reports









By:
Brahima Ouedraogo
The Associated Press,
 Published on Thu Oct 30 2014





















      Photos
        View photos




zoom






OUAGADOUGOU, BURKINA FASO—Burkina Faso’s leader of nearly three decades declared a state of emergency Thursday, hours after protesters who oppose his bid for another term stormed the parliament and set part of it on fire, marking the greatest threat to his rule since he himself seized power in a coup.
It was not immediately clear where President Blaise Compaore was following the announcement, which also called for an end to the demonstrations. At least one person was killed and several others were wounded earlier in the day, authorities said.
Army Gen. Honore Traore, the joint chief of staff, later announced that a curfew would be in effect from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. The government and parliament also have been dissolved, he said.
In a concession to the opposition, Compaore agreed Thursday to withdraw a bill from consideration in the parliament that would have allowed him to extend his 27-rule through a fifth term in office.





				ISSOUF SANOGO
				/ AFP/GETTY IMAGES

                
			

				Hundreds of angry demonstrators in Burkina Faso stormed the parliament in Ouagadougou on Thursday before setting it on fire in protest at plans to change the constitution.
			



While demonstrators managed to block the highly controversial parliamentary vote, the violent opposition unleashed Thursday underscored the threat Compaore now faces as frustrations mount in one of the world’s poorest countries. In a sign of the growing unrest, crowds also attacked the homes of government ministers and looted shops in the country’s second-largest city, Bobo Dioulasso, witnesses said.


“It is over for the regime!” and “We do not want him again!” shouted demonstrators when they heard the vote on term limits had been stopped.
Flames enveloped the main building in the parliament complex, and many lawmakers fled to a nearby hotel.
“It is difficult to say what happens next, but things are out of control because the demonstrators do not listen to anyone,” said Ablasse Ouedraogo, an opposition lawmaker.
The images of cars on fire and plumes of black smoke in the capital of Ouagadougou prompted alarm from the international community. Mohamed Ibn Chambas, the special representative of the UN secretary-general, said he “deplores the deterioration of the security situation,” according to a statement.
In a bid to restore calm, military leaders met Thursday afternoon with the influential traditional chief of the country’s largest ethnic group, the Mossi, according to Jonathan Yameogo, a spokesperson for the ruling party.
Burkina Faso has long been known for its relative stability in volatile West Africa, though tensions have been mounting over Compaore’s plans to extend his rule.



Since coming to power in a coup, Compaore, 63, has refashioned himself as an elder statesman who brokered electoral disputes and hostage releases throughout the region.
He made no secret of his support for Charles Taylor, the Liberian warlord turned president now serving a 50-year sentence for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Sierra Leone. The leader of Burkina Faso also has been accused of supporting rebel groups in Ivory Coast and Angola, though he later played the role as a peacemaker in Ivory Coast and elsewhere.
More recently, his government was involved in negotiating the release of several European hostages held by Al Qaeda-linked militants in northern Mali. He also hosted the talks between Mali’s government and separatist Tuareg rebels, leading to the agreement that made the July 2013 presidential election possible.










More on thestar.com








Five Manitoba cabinet ministers quit over premier who doesn’t listen









British banker charged in murders that shock Hong Kong









Read more about:
Burkina Faso, Africa

















































Top News





								
								
								Students were warned away from Q internships: professor



								
								
								Child-care advocates say parents have clear choice in next federal election comments



								
								
								More action sought to stop suicide in Canadacomments



Updated
								Terminally ill woman ends her life, as planned, under assisted-suicide lawcomments



NEW
								Dozens feared dead after migrant boat sinks off Istanbul



NEW
								Bridging the digital divide: Students teach seniors how to be tech savvy comments



NEW
								British banker charged in murders that shock Hong Kong



								
								
								Canadian warplanes launch first airstrike against Islamic State 







commercial promo






commercial promo






commercial promo






commercial promo





Partner ContentPlaces to Grow: The reshaping of the GTA






The Kit Q&A: J.Crew perfumer Carlos Huber






The high cost of taking money out of your RRSP: Mayers 






Further education students need to plan ahead for cost 






Toronto.com: Must-See November Events















World stories map
All the countries from which the Star has reported since late 2011.







The World Daily blog
The Star's foreign desk covers the best stories from the around the globe.













On Twitter











Popular Photo Galleries






Photos


News | Toronto Star
The Oscar Pistorius trial in photos



Photos


News | Toronto Star
It's all happening at the Zoo



Photos


News | Toronto Star
Brazilians mourn Eduardo Campos





























Back to Mobile


 





















































thestar.com

News
Your Toronto
Opinion
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Life
Diversions
Classifieds
Site Map




 

Wheels.ca
Insurance Hotline
New in Homes
Star Store
Blogs
Contests
Lottery Results
Obituaries
Corrections
Public Editor
Behavioural Targeting
Today's News




Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd.

About
Atkinson Principles
Statement of Principles
Get Home Delivery
My Subscription
Contact Us
Contact Webmaster
FAQ
News Releases
Star Internships
Careers @ the Star




Advertise with us

Advertising Terms
Mediakit
Online Advertising
Print Advertising
Special Features




Initiatives

Santa Claus Fund
Fresh Air Fund
Speakers Bureau
Classroom Connection
Pages of the Past
Report on Community Giving




Connect with Us

RSS feeds
Twitter Updates
News Alerts
Newsletters
Mobile Devices





© Copyright Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd. 1996-2014

Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy

































