Burkina Faso: With or Without Compaoré, Times of Uncertainty - International Crisis Group 
Burkina Faso: With or Without Compaoré, Times of Uncertainty - International Crisis GroupYou must enable JavaScript to view this site.

















            This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review our legal notice and privacy policy for more details.
        

            Close
        







English
Français
العربية
Other





email alerts
Press
Sitemap
Text only
RSS


twitter
facebook

















Regions / Countries



Africa

West Africa
Burkina Faso
Côte d'Ivoire
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Liberia
Mali
Niger
Nigeria
Sierra Leone


Central Africa
Burundi
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
DR Congo
Rwanda


Horn of Africa
Ethiopia/Eritrea
Kenya
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
Uganda


Southern Africa
Angola
Madagascar
Zimbabwe


Asia

Central Asia
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan
Turkmenistan
Uzbekistan


North East Asia
China
Taiwan Strait
Korean Peninsula


South Asia
Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Kashmir
Nepal
Pakistan
Sri Lanka


South East Asia
Cambodia
Indonesia
Myanmar
Philippines
Malaysia
Thailand
Timor-Leste


Europe

Turkey-Cyprus
Cyprus
Turkey


Balkans
Albania
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Croatia
Kosovo
Macedonia
Montenegro
Serbia


Moldova


North Caucasus


South Caucasus
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Georgia


Ukraine


Latin America & Caribbean

Mexico


Andes
Bolivia
Colombia
Ecuador
Venezuela


Guatemala


Haiti


Middle East & North Africa

Iraq, Iran & the Gulf
Iran
Bahrain
Iraq
Jordan
Saudi Arabia
Yemen


Egypt, Syria & Lebanon
Egypt
Lebanon
Syria


Israel/Palestine


North Africa
Algeria
Libya
Mauritania
Tunisia
Western Sahara




Close



Publication Type



Commentary

Alerts

Reports & Briefings

Blogs

CrisisWatch

Media Releases

Speeches

Weekly Update



Close



Multimedia



Interactive Presentations

Podcasts

Videos



Close



Crisis Group Blog

About Crisis Group

Support Crisis Group




Login
Register






Regions / Countries


Africa
West Africa
Burkina FasoCôte d'IvoireGuineaGuinea-BissauLiberiaMaliNigerNigeriaSierra Leone
Central AfricaHorn of AfricaSouthern Africa
AsiaEuropeLatin America & CaribbeanMiddle East & North Africa







Homepage >

  Regions / Countries >

  Africa >

  West Africa >

  Burkina Faso >

Burkina Faso: With or Without Compaoré, Times of Uncertainty




Burkina Faso: With or Without Compaoré, Times of Uncertainty

Africa Report N°205
22 Jul 2013

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
For the first time since 1987, succession is being openly discussed in Burkina Faso. Under the current constitution, President Blaise Compaoré, in power for more than a quarter century, is not allowed to contest the presidency in 2015. Any attempt to amend the constitution for a fifth-term bid could provoke a repeat of the 2011 popular uprisings. However, even if Compaoré abides by the constitution and leaves power in 2015, his succession may still prove challenging as he has dominated the political scene for decades, placing severe restrictions on political space. International partners must encourage him to uphold the constitution and prepare for a smooth, democratic transition. 
Preserving Burkina Faso’s stability is all the more important given that the country is located at the centre of an increasingly troubled region, with the political and military crisis in neighbouring Mali possibly spilling over into Niger, another border country. Burkina Faso has been spared similar upheaval so far thanks to its internal stability and robust security apparatus, but deterioration of the political climate in the run-up to 2015 could make the country more vulnerable. A presidential election is also due in 2015 in Côte d’Ivoire, a country with which Burkina Faso has very close ties. This special relationship and the presence of a significant Burkinabe community in the country mean that a political crisis in Ouagadougou could have a negative impact on a still fragile Côte d’Ivoire.
Burkina Faso also holds significant diplomatic influence in West Africa. Over the past two decades under Blaise Compaoré’s rule, the country has become a key player in the resolution of regional crises. The president and his men have succeeded, with much ingenuity, in positioning themselves as indispensable mediators or as “watchdogs” helping Western countries monitor the security situation in the Sahel and the Sahara. A crisis in Burkina Faso would not only mean the loss of a key ally and a strategic base for France and the U.S., it would also reduce the capacity of an African country in dealing with regional conflicts. The collapse of the Burkinabe diplomatic apparatus would also mean the loss of an important reference point for West Africa that, despite limitations, has played an essential role as a regulatory authority.
There is real risk of socio-political crisis in Burkina Faso. Since coming to power in 1987, Blaise Compaoré has put in place a semi-authoritarian regime, combining democratisation with repression, to ensure political stability – something his predecessors have never achieved. This complex, flawed system is unlikely to be sustained, however. It revolves around one man who has dominated political life for over two decades and has left little room for a smooth transition. In fact, there are few alternatives for democratic succession. The opposition is divided and lacks financial capacity and charismatic, experienced leaders; and none of the key figures in the ruling party has emerged as a credible successor. If Compaoré fails to manage his departure effectively, the country could face political upheaval similar to that which rocked Côte d’Ivoire in the 1990s following the death of Félix Houphouët-Boigny.
Another threat to Burkina Faso’s stability is social explosion. The society has modernised faster than the political system, and urbanisation and globalisation have created high expectations for change from an increasingly young population. Despite strong economic growth, inequalities are widespread and the country is one of the poorest in the world. Repeated promises of change have never been fulfilled, and this has led to broken relations between the state and its citizens as well as a loss of authority at all levels of the administration. Public distrust sparked violent protests in the first half of 2011 that involved various segments of the society, including rank-and-file soldiers in several cities.
For the first time, the army appeared divided between the elites and the rank and file, and somewhat hostile to the president, who has sought to control the defence and security apparatus from which he had emerged. The crisis was only partially resolved, and local conflicts over land, traditional leadership and workers’ rights increased in 2012. Such tensions are especially worrying given the country’s history of social struggle and revolutionary tendencies since the 1983 Marxist-inspired revolution.
Blaise Compaoré’s long reign is showing the usual signs of erosion that characterises semi-autocratic rule. Several key figures of his regime have retired, including the mayor of Ouagadougou, Simon Compaoré – not a relative of the president – who managed the country’s capital for seventeen years; and billionaire Oumarou Kanazoé, who until his death was a moderate voice among the Muslim community.  In addition, the death of Libya’s Muammar Qadhafi, a major financial partner, was a blow to Compaoré’s regime. 
President Compaoré has responded to these challenges with reforms that have not met popular expectations and have only scratched the surface. Further, he has remained silent on whether he will actually leave office in 2015. He has concentrated power, in the country and within his Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP) party, in the hands of a small circle of very close allies and family members, including his younger brother François Compaoré, who was elected to parliament for the first time on 2 December 2012. The president’s silence and his brother’s political ascent continue to fuel uncertainty.
President Compaoré has less than three years left to prepare his departure and prevent a succession battle or a new popular uprising. He is the only actor capable of facilitating a smooth transition. By upholding the constitution and resisting the temptation of dynastic succession, he could preserve stability, the main accomplishment of his long rule. Any other scenario would pave the way for a troubled future. Similarly, the opposition and civil society organisations should act responsibly and work to create conditions for a democratic process that would preserve peace and stability. International partners, in particular Western allies, should no longer focus exclusively on Compaoré’s mediation role and the monitoring of security risks in West Africa; they should also pay close attention to domestic politics and the promotion of democracy in Burkina Faso.
Dakar/Brussels, 22 July 2013









 

    This page in:
English
Français







Print














More Information


Read full report (pdf)
Media release









International Crisis Group © 2014 | 
Legal Notice | Contact Us | Site by The Reference | Back to Top




 


