AP News | The Columbus Dispatch 
AP News | The Columbus Dispatch

AP News | The Columbus Dispatch
 





 



AP News | The Columbus Dispatch
 





 







Associated Press



Top Stories
Latest News
U.S.
World
Business
Technology
Sports
Entertainment
Health
Science
Politics
Offbeat







AAA  Oct. 30, 2014 2:34 PM ETBurkina Faso president declares state of emergencyBy BRAHIMA OUEDRAOGOBy BRAHIMA OUEDRAOGO, Associated Press        AIM      Share      Google      Digg      Del.icio.us      REddit      NewsVine      Mixx      Facebook      Yahoo





A car burns outside the parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president  Blaise Compaore who is  seeking another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. Protesters stormed Burkina Faso’s parliament Thursday, dragging furniture and computers onto the street and setting the main chamber ablaze, in the most significant challenge to the president’s rule during his 27 years in power.(AP Photo/Theo Renaut)







A car burns outside the parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president  Blaise Compaore who is  seeking another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. Protesters stormed Burkina Faso’s parliament Thursday, dragging furniture and computers onto the street and setting the main chamber ablaze, in the most significant challenge to the president’s rule during his 27 years in power.(AP Photo/Theo Renaut)







A car burns outside the parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime President Blaise Compaore  who seeks another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. Protesters stormed Burkina Faso’s parliament Thursday, dragging furniture and computers onto the street and setting the main chamber ablaze, in the most significant challenge to the president’s rule during his 27 years in power.(AP Photo/Theo Renaut)







Protestors  pour  water on a  injured man near the parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president Blaise Compaore who is  seeking another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. Protesters stormed Burkina Faso’s parliament Thursday, dragging furniture and computers onto the street and setting the main chamber ablaze, in the most significant challenge to the president’s rule during his 27 years in power.(AP Photo/Theo Renaut)







A protestor near the burning parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president  Blaise Compaore  who is  seeking  another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. Protesters stormed Burkina Faso’s parliament Thursday, dragging furniture and computers onto the street and setting the main chamber ablaze, in the most significant challenge to the president’s rule during his 27 years in power.(AP Photo/Theo Renaut)







A protestor walks past a pool as protestors ransack the Azalai Hotel in  Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president  Blaise Compaore who is seeking  another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. Protesters stormed Burkina Faso’s parliament Thursday, dragging furniture and computers onto the street and setting the main chamber ablaze, in the most significant challenge to the president’s rule during his 27 years in power.(AP Photo/Theo Renaut)




.   .


1 of 5

.   .








More News
Video



 






















Buy AP Photo Reprints
























OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso (AP) — Burkina Faso's leader of nearly three decades declared a state of emergency Thursday, hours after protesters who oppose his bid for another term stormed the parliament and set part of it on fire, marking the greatest threat to his rule since he himself seized power in a coup.It was not immediately clear where President Blaise Compaore was, nor what restrictions were being imposed as a result of the state of emergency. The announcement was made by his communications director, Ibrahim Sakande.Demonstrators managed to block the parliamentary vote that was likely to give Compaore the ability to seek a fifth term. However, the violent opposition unleashed Thursday underscored the threat Compaore now faces as frustrations mount in one of the world's poorest countries."It is over for the regime!" and "We do not want him again!" shouted demonstrators when they heard that the vote on term limits had been stopped.Flames enveloped the main building in the parliament complex, and many lawmakers fled to a nearby hotel."It is difficult to say what happens next, but things are out of control because the demonstrators do not listen to anyone," said Ablasse Ouedraogo, an opposition lawmaker.In a bid to restore calm, military leaders met Thursday afternoon with the influential traditional chief of the country's largest ethnic group, the Mossi, according to Jonathan Yameogo, a spokesman for the ruling party.Burkina Faso has long been known for its relative stability in volatile West Africa, though tensions have been mounting over Compaore's plans to extend his rule.He first came to power following the October 1987 coup against then-President Thomas Sankara, Compaore's longtime friend and political ally who ultimately was killed in the power grab.Compaore has been elected four times since, though the opposition has disputed the results.Crowds also attacked the homes of government ministers and looted shops in the country's second-largest city, Bobo Dioulasso, witnesses said.Earlier, police in the capital had pushed the crowds back with tear gas, but they regrouped in larger numbers, surged past police lines and broke into the parliament building.Since coming to power in a coup, Compaore, 63, has refashioned himself as an elder statesman who brokered electoral disputes and hostage releases throughout the region.He made no secret of his support for Charles Taylor, the Liberian warlord turned president now serving a 50-year sentence for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Sierra Leone. The leader of Burkina Faso also has been accused of supporting rebel groups in Ivory Coast and Angola, though he later played the role as a peacemaker in Ivory Coast and elsewhere.More recently, his government was involved in negotiating the release of several European hostages held by al-Qaida-linked militants in northern Mali. He also hosted the talks between Mali's government and separatist Tuareg rebels, leading to the agreement which made the July 2013 presidential election possible.In 2011, Compaore encountered another crisis when multiple waves of protests washed over the country. The unrest began with students torching government buildings in several cities after a young man died in the custody of security forces, allegedly as a result of mistreatment.Ordinary citizens took to the streets over rising food prices, and soldiers looted shops and stole cars to express their discontent over low pay. At one point in mid-April of that year, mutinous soldiers occupied the palace, forcing Compaore to flee.But what would have spelled the end for many presidents was a mere temporary problem for Compaore, one he could maneuver his way out of by removing his security chiefs and appointing himself defense minister before returning to Ouagadougou.Associated PressCopyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.News Topics: General news, Government and politics, Emergency management, LegislaturePeople, Places and Companies: Blaise Compaore, Burkina Faso, Ouagadougou, West Africa, Ivory Coast, Mali      AIM      Share      Google      Digg      Del.icio.us      REddit      NewsVine      Mixx      Facebook      Yahoo






















  









AP Privacy Policy  | AP Terms of Use 




 







