Burkina Faso protests | Africa - News and Analysis 

Burkina Faso protests | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 









Tag Archives: Burkina Faso protests

Burkina Faso – protestors march on presidential palace

Posted on October 30, 2014 | Leave a comment


Reuters
Protesters march on Burkina presidency after burning parliament

By Mathieu Bonkoungou and Joe Penney
OUAGADOUGOU Thu Oct 30, 2014 

















A soldier runs from anti-government protesters as they take over the parliament building in Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso, October 30, 2014.
Credit: Reuters/Joe Penney




OUAGADOUGOU (Reuters) – Thousands of protesters marched on Burkina Faso’s presidential palace after burning the parliament building and ransacking state television offices on Thursday, forcing President Blaise Compaore to scrap a plan to extend his 27-year rule.
Emergency services said at least three protesters were shot dead and several others wounded by security forces when the crowd tried to storm the home of Compaore’s brother. Security forces also fired live rounds and tear gas at protesters near the presidency in the Ouaga 2000 neighborhood.
Black smoke swirled in the air above parliament after demonstrators lit fires inside the building before looting computers and televisions screens and wheeling away police motor-bikes, a Reuters reporter said.
Lawmakers had been due to vote on Thursday on a government plan to change the constitution to allow Compaore – who took power in a coup in 1987 – to stand for re-election next year, when he was due to stand down.
Alain Edouard Traore, communications minister, later said the government had dropped the proposal to amend a two-term limit on the presidential mandate.
But protesters told Reuters they would not stop until Compaore was forced to step aside. Burkinabe officials said there were also large-scale protests in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina’s second biggest town, and Ouahigouya, to the north.
“We did this because Blaise was trying to stay too long. We are tired of him,” said Seydou Kabre, a protester in the crowd in Ouagadougou. “We want a change. He must go!”
Most deputies had not yet arrived for the vote when protesters, who had set up barricades outside parliament from early on Thursday, stormed the building. The crowd surged forward after police fired warning shots in the air.
A Reuters reporter saw nearby structures also on fire and vehicles outside the parliament being smashed.
State television was forced off the air after the building was taken. Soldiers deployed outside state radio with an armored personnel carrier to defend it from the crowd.
Opposition leader Zephirin Diabre said on his Twitter feed he was opposed to any coup in Burkina Faso just hours after he had urged armed forces to join the people in a speech broadcast live from his headquarters.
Local radio and a diplomatic source said opposition leaders held talks with an influential army General Kouame Lougue about a possible transition. The same diplomatic source said members of Compaore’s government had been arrested at the airport trying to leave the country.
A Reuters witness said protesters took one of the dead bodies from the streets and wrapped it in the national flag, while softly singing Burkina’s anthem. They then drove it to the central Place de la Nation, where more protesters had gathered.
INCREASING OPPOSITION
Compaore has ruled the cotton and gold-producing nation with a firm grip but, in recent years, he has faced increasing criticism, including from within his own camp and the military.
“If needs be we are going to march to the presidency. We want Blaise Compaore to leave, We want change,” said George Sawadogo, a 23-year-old student.
Opposition to Compaore’s plan have been mounting in recent days.
Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets of Ouagadougou and other towns across the country on Tuesday in what the opposition said was the start of a campaign of civil disobedience over the proposed constitutional reform. The government has called for restraint.
“This seems to have moved us to a situation where Compaore will have to leave power before the end of his term next year,” said Gilles Yabi, an independent West Africa analyst. “It will depend on how the security forces react, but I can’t imagine that Blaise will be able to finish his term if there is serious violence today.”
France has called on Compaore to adhere to African Union rules preventing constitutional changes that allow leaders to stay in power. The U.S. government has said it is concerned.
“All bets are off now,” said one Western diplomat in Ouagadougou, who asked not to be identified.  Reuters
 


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Compaore, Burkina Faso protests, Burkinabe parliament set ablaze, Burkinabe protestors march on presidency, Compaore presidential term, General Kouame Lougue, Zephirin Diabre 



Burkina Faso – protestors set parliament ablaze

Posted on October 30, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
Protesters angry at plans to allow Burkina Faso’s President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year-rule have set fire to parliament.
Correspondents say the city hall and ruling party headquarters are also in flames.
A huge crowd is surging towards the presidential palace and the main airport has been shut.
MPs have suspended a vote on changing the constitution to allow Mr Compaore to stand for re-election next year.
Five people have been killed in the protests, among the most serious against Mr Compaore’s rule, reports BBC Afrique’s Yacouba Ouedraogo from the capital.
The military had earlier fired live bullets at protesters who had stormed parliament, he says.

Dozens of soldiers have reportedly joined the protests, including a former defence minister, General Kouame Lougue.
The main opposition leader, Zephirin Diabre, has called on the military to side with “the people”.
State TV off air
Mr Compaore’s whereabouts are unknown, but he has appealed for calm via Twitter.
He first took power in a coup in 1987, and has won four disputed elections since then.

Eyewitness Joost Laane told BBC Focus on Africa:
I am in an area where many MPs live – and I have seen two of their homes set ablaze and smoke coming out of another two or three homes. Hotel Azalai, one of the main hotels in the city, is also on fire.
Two helicopters flew over my house – the president’s and a normal helicopter. I cannot confirm whether the president was in one of them.
No-one knows what is going to happen next. It is chaotic and tense. We hear sporadic gunfire.
There is no TV anymore. So we are depending on internet access and phone calls. The 3G network and the texting system are blocked.

The opposition has called for a campaign of civil disobedience to demand that he steps down in elections next year.
“October 30 is Burkina Faso’s Black Spring, like the Arab Spring,” opposition activist Emile Pargui Pare told AFP news agency.
Demonstrators breached the security around parliament and set it on fire
Cars were also set ablaze near parliament
The protesters do not want Mr Compaore to change the constitution to extend his rule
The defence forces have been trying to disperse the protesters
State television has gone off air after protesters stormed the building housing it and ransacked it, Reuters quotes a witness as saying.
About 1,500 people breached the security cordon at parliament, AFP reports.
Protesters were setting fire to documents and stealing computer equipment and cars outside the building were also set on fire, it reports.

Blaise Compaore 



Jump media player
Media player help

Out of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.



President Blaise Compaore: “My concern today is not to build a future for myself – but to see how the future of this country will take shape”



Served under President Thomas Sankara as minister of state to the presidency
Took power after Sankara was killed in mysterious circumstances by a group of soldiers in 1987
First elected president in 1991 and again in 1998
A new constitution in 2000 limited presidents to two term limits in office and limited the term to five years
Won two further terms
Protests at attempts to amend the term limits began a year ago, fuelled by the high cost of living


A massive crowd has also converged on the main square in Ouagadougou, and are marching towards the presidential palace, which is about 5km (three miles) away, our reporter says.
A government helicopter flying overhead was firing tear gas at them, Reuters reports.
There are also reports of protests in the south-western city of Bobo Dioulasso.
The government has been forced to suspend Thursday’s parliamentary vote on a constitutional amendment that would have lifted the limit on presidential terms so that Mr Compaore could run for office again in 2015.
It is not clear whether the government intends to hold the vote at a later stage, correspondents say.
Mr Compaore is a staunch ally of the US and France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for military operations against militant Islamists in the Sahel region.
Both France and the European Union (EU) have called on him to scrap the proposed constitutional amendment.
The EU said it could jeopardise Burkina Faso’s stability. The US has also raised concern about the proposed amendment.


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Burkina Faso protests, Burkinabe parliament fire, Burkinabe parliament torched, Compaore clings to power. Burkina Faso riots, Compaore presidential term, President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year-rule 








Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		













						Africa – News and Analysis					


Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.				



Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com




Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to



Cancel







 













