Burkina Faso: Protesters Topple Statue of President | Africa - News and Analysis 

Burkina Faso: Protesters Topple Statue of President | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 










← Burkina Faso – protestors set parliament ablaze
Botswana – Khama re-elected along with BDP but with under 50% of vote →


Burkina Faso: Protesters Topple Statue of President

Posted on October 30, 2014 | Leave a comment


FB Newswire/allAfrica




Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in the Burkina Faso capital Ouagadougou on October 28 in opposition to plans by President Blaise Compaore to … ( Resource: Protesters Topple Statue of Burkina Faso President

Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in the Burkina Faso capital Ouagadougou on October 28 in opposition to plans by President Blaise Compaore to extend his term of office.
A rally in Place de la Nation in the heart of the capital was followed by a march through the streets, with police reportedly firing tear gas. In Bobo Dioulasso, protesters reportedly tore down a statue of Compaoré.
Originally published on FB Newswire allAfrica


DW/allAfrica
Burkina Faso Parliament Stormed by ProtestersTens of thousands of protesters gathered in the Burkina Faso capital Ouagadougou on October 28 in opposition to plans by President Blaise Compaore to … ( Resource: Protesters Topple Statue of Burkina Faso President


Following days of street clashes, protesters in Burkina Faso have forced the police to withdraw from the parliament building in Ouagadougou. The state television has also been attacked and has stopped broadcasting.
Thousands of protesters stormed Burkina Faso’s parliament building on Thursday ahead of a highly controversial vote.
About 1,500 people managed to break through a security cordon and were ransacking parliament, according to AFP correspondents. Protesters charged through offices, setting fire to documents, stealing computer equipment and burning cars outside. Smoke and fire have also been seen rising from the building.
The immediate cause for clashes is a proposed constitutional change which would allow current President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year rule. According to the communications minister Alain Edouard Traore, the bill has been “scrapped” in the wake of the protests.
“We did this because Blaise was trying to stay too long. We are tired of him,” said Seydou Kabre, a protester in the crowd headed to the prime minister’s office. “We want a change. He must go!”
Compaore’s bid to hold on to power


Protesters took the parliament after police started shooting in the air in a bid to disperse them. Security forces previously fired teargas and beat and arrested protesters headed to the parliament building. In response, hundreds of opposition supporters burned tires and set up makeshift barricades.
President Compaore seized power in 1987, and his bid to keep his position has angered much of the public, including many young people, in a country where 60 percent of the population is under 25. The proposed changes would make him eligible for re-election in 2015, when he was due to stand down.
Civil disobedience or uprising?
The poor African country of almost 17 million people has been tense for days in the run-up to Thursday’s vote. Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets of Ouagadougou and other towns across the country on Tuesday in what the opposition said was the start of a campaign of civil disobedience over the proposed constitutional reform. The government initiative has also drawn criticism from former colonial power France, the European Union and the United States.
Protesters also stormed the Burkina Faso state television building, which stopped broadcasting. Some of the protesters are now saying that they they will march on other government buildings in the city.
dj/tj (Reuters, AFP, AP)


Share this:StumbleUponTumblrPinterestLinkedInGoogleMoreTwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

							This entry was posted in Southern Africa and tagged Burkina Faso protest, Burkinabe parliamernt burned, Burkinabe protests, Compaore presidency, Compaore statue pulled down, Ouagadougou. Bookmark the permalink.							


← Burkina Faso – protestors set parliament ablaze
Botswana – Khama re-elected along with BDP but with under 50% of vote →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		











Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










%d bloggers like this:








