Burkina Faso revolt | Africa - News and Analysis 

Burkina Faso revolt | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 









Tag Archives: Burkina Faso revolt

Burkina Faso – Compaore’s rise and fall

Posted on November 1, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
How Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall
By Thomas Fessy BBC West Africa correspondent 
Blaise Compaore sparked public anger after he tried to extend his 27-year rule
There was just one more year to go before change could finally come, through the next presidential election.
After 27 years of Blaise Compaore, the people of Burkina Faso were set to wait patiently until November 2015.
But Mr Compaore’s attempt to force a constitutional change sparked near unanimous outrage.
“It’s as if he was disconnected from reality or not acknowledging what was going on,” Rinaldo Depagne, director of ICG’s West Africa programme, said.
“With nearly a million people in the streets [in a country of 17 million], any sensible politician would have withdrawn their proposed bill.”
But he didn’t.
Country on edge
Frustration and anger had been growing over the past few years in Burkina Faso and there had been multiple warnings that the society was on the edge of a social-political crisis.
Violent protests erupted in 2011 throughout the country.
On Thursday, demonstrators set Burkina Faso’s parliament on fire
First out were the students, following the death of one of their number in police custody.
Shopkeepers, traders, magistrates, lawyers, peasants and finally the rank-and-file soldiers followed.
But they didn’t form a mass movement and this is what “saved Blaise Compaore”, according to Mr Depagne, who lived in Burkina Faso for a number of years.
The opposition parties were not able to build a political platform to offer an alternative based on the people’s discontent at high prices, low wages and Mr Compaore’s undivided rule.
Yet, these upheavals lasted several months in the first half of 2011.
There hadn’t been such major demonstrations since the murder of the investigative journalist Norbert Zongo at the end of 1998.
Mr Zongo was investigating the killing of the driver of Francois Compaore, the then-president’s younger brother and special adviser.
He had himself warned his readership that he may end up being killed after he received a series of death threats.
The murder of Norbert Zongo marked a turning point for many Burkinabes
His murder – which the government initially claimed was an accident – sparked unprecedented demonstrations.
To many, the Zongo case was a turning point during Mr Compaore’s regime. The opposition was too divided to overthrow the system but “it created confidence among citizens about their own rights,” Mr Depagne said.
Symbolic statue
There was an overwhelming presence of youth in this week’s protests. Half of the country’s population is believed to be under 18 and flocking to cities where unemployment fuels frustration.
Despite the economic growth, Burkina Faso remains at the very bottom of the United Nations’ Human Development Index, making it one of the world’s poorest countries.
The landlocked nation is heavily dependent on international aid, especially since one of its major financial partners, Col Muammar Gaddafi, was killed during the Libyan uprising in 2011.
Repeated promises of change haven’t been fulfilled during Mr Compaore’s rule, allowing public distrust to grow.
Mr Compaore was close to former Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi
Yet, Mr Compaore imposed himself as an indispensable regional mediator and had become the strongest ally to France and the US in the region.
He showed capacity to resolve crises – despite his own history of backing rebels and fuelling civil wars in the West African neighbourhood – and more importantly, he used his networks to help Western powers battling Islamist militancy in the Sahel.
Hours before Mr Compaore resigned, a letter he had received earlier this month from French President Francois Hollande – who has now welcomed his resignation – emerged in the media to reveal that France was ready to support him in finding a job within the international community at the end of his mandate, if he withdrew his proposed bill on presidential term limits.
But this wasn’t enough. And there was one particular scene during this popular unrest earlier in the week that could have had Mr Compaore worried.
Angered youth took down a statue of him in Bobo Dioulasso, the country’s second largest city.
Quite symbolically, the statue was erected in the mid-1990s next to that of Col Gaddafi, who had just visited the country.
Even though that signal was probably the strongest yet, Mr Compaore still thought he could get his bill passed in parliament two days later.
Instead, he precipitated his own downfall.


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Compaore, Burkina Faso, Burkina Faso revolt, Colonel Isaac Zida, Honore Traore, Thomas Sankara 








Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		













						Africa – News and Analysis					


Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.				



Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com




Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to



Cancel







 













