Burkina Faso – Isaac Zida says he has taken power not Traore | Africa - News and Analysis 

Burkina Faso – Isaac Zida says he has taken power not Traore | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 










← Nigeria – Boko Haram kills 30 in Gombe and denies ceasefire claim
South Africa – ANC MPs absolve Zuma over Nkandla →


Burkina Faso – Isaac Zida says he has taken power not Traore

Posted on November 1, 2014 | Leave a comment


Mail and Guardian
Isaac Zida says he has taken power after a week of violent protest against President Blaise Compaore’s 27-year rule .

 
Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida said on Saturday that he had taken power after deposed President Blaise Compaore (pictured) reportedly fled the capital. (AFP)
 


The second in command of Burkina Faso’s presidential guard, Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida, said on Saturday he had taken power after deposed President Blaise Compaore reportedly fled the capital.
Zida declared a rival claim by army chief Navere Honore Traore was “obsolete” in a televised speech. The tussle for power comes after an extraordinary week of violent protest against Compaore’s 27-year rule that saw Parliament stormed and set ablaze. Zida, who is leading a group of young army officers, said he had assumed “the responsibilities of head of the transition and of head of state” to ensure a “smooth democratic transition”.
“The aspirations for democratic change” of the Burkina youth “will be neither betrayed, nor disappointed,” he said. He told journalists that the former president, who was said to have fled the capital Ougadougou, was “in a safe place” and his “safety and well-being are assured”. Earlier, Zida ordered the closure of the country’s borders.
A French diplomatic source told AFP that Compaore was travelling south towards the town of Po near the border with Ghana. The source said he was still in the country and had not asked for refuge in France, the former colonial power.
The uprising, which has drawn parallels with the Arab Spring, was sparked by plans to change the Constitution to allow Compaore to stand once again for elections next year. Compaore is one of several sub-Saharan African leaders who have stayed in power for decades, and the protests are being closely watched across the continent where at least four heads of state are pressing for similar constitutional changes to cling to power.
Army chief Traore stated on Friday that he was assuming power as head of state, a day after he ordered the dissolution of the government and a dusk-to-dawn curfew. But many protesters are deeply opposed to him taking power, seeing him as a close ally of Compaore.
‘We need someone credible’
“We do not want General Traore in power. We need someone credible. Traore is Blaise Compaore’s henchman,” said Monou Tapsoaba, an activist with the opposition People’s Movement for Progress. Zida appears to have more legitimacy with civil society. He appeared before large crowds alongside lawyer Guy Herve Kam, leader of the Citizen Broom group that helped lead the demonstrations, in Place de la Nation on Friday.
One opposition leader, Benewende Sankara, described Traore’s move as a “coup”. Another opposition chief, Zephirin Diabre, told Agence France-Presse he hoped the two military factions would forge an agreement.
“We await the army’s plans for the transition. We will tell them what we think,” he said. Many of the tens of thousands massed on the streets of the capital have called for retired general and former defence minister Kouame Lougue to take control, shouting: “Lougue in power!”
France’s President Francois Hollande vowed that Paris would “contribute to calming” the situation in its former colony, while Washington urged “a transfer of power in accordance with the constitution”. The EU called for the people of Burkina Faso to have the final say in who rules their country. The crisis is the worst in Burkina Faso since a wave of mutinies shook the country in 2011.
Compaore had initially rejected calls to resign. He withdrew plans for a vote on the constitutional changes but vowed to stay in power for another year. He was only 36 when he seized power in a 1987 coup in which his former friend Thomas Sankara was ousted and assassinated.
Cling to power
His bid to cling to power angered many, particularly young people in a country where 60% of the population of almost 17-million is under 25. Many have spent their entire lives under the leadership of one man and are disillusioned by the establishment running the poor former French colony, which is stagnating at 183rd out of 186 countries on the UN human development index.
The death toll from Thursday’s violence – the peak of the unrest – was given as “around 30” by two opposition leaders. “October 30 is Burkina Faso’s ‘Black Spring’, like the Arab Spring,” Emile Pargui Pare, an official from opposition party the Movement of People for Progress, told AFP. Known in colonial times as Upper Volta, the landlocked country became independent from France in 1960 and its name was changed to Burkina Faso (“the land of upright men”) in 1984. – AFP  M&G


Share this:StumbleUponTumblrPinterestLinkedInGoogleMoreTwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

							This entry was posted in Africa - International, West Africa and tagged Burkina Faso, Burkina protests, Colonel Isaac Zida, Compaore resigns, Honore Traore. Bookmark the permalink.							


← Nigeria – Boko Haram kills 30 in Gombe and denies ceasefire claim
South Africa – ANC MPs absolve Zuma over Nkandla →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		











Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










%d bloggers like this:








