Burkina Faso – the legacy of Thomas Sankara 25 years on | Africa - News and Analysis 

Burkina Faso – the legacy of Thomas Sankara 25 years on | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 










← AU re-admits Mali and discusses intervention
Nigeria – Ribadu reports uncovers corruption in the oil and gas industry →


Burkina Faso – the legacy of Thomas Sankara 25 years on

Posted on October 25, 2012 | Leave a comment


Think Africa Press
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso:
“Fatherland or death, we will prevail!”

Thomas Sankara (left) was killed in 1987 on the orders of Blaise Compaore (right) who has been president ever since. Photographs by Wikipedia and UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
With these words, Captain Thomas Sankara proclaimed the revolution on August 4, 1983. He had just led a successful coup against the government of Burkina Faso, back then still called Haute-Volta. His words were prophetic, for just four years later the charismatic officer, later remembered as “Africa’s Ché Guevara”, was murdered, shot by the men of his best friend.
But these four years were enough to make Sankara one of the most important political figures of his time. He became one of the sharpest critics of imperialism and celebrated leader of the non-aligned movement. His social and economic policies, the centerpiece of his revolution, can still be called visionary. Nothing drives this point home better than looking at Burkina Faso today, 25 years after his death.
Unemployment, poverty and high prices
Kpénahi Traoré sits in the leafy garden of the French Cultural Institute in Ouagadougou, the capital city. The young journalist finished university a year ago. In this country, where only every fourth person is able to read and write, this is a real privilege. But equivalent to prosperity – or even a permanent job – it is not. “At the beginning of our studies we were told that journalists can make 100,000 CFA-Francs ($200) per month”, she recalls. “But this is only possible if you work two jobs.”
The situation isn’t much different for graduates of other subjects. “It’s not easy to find a job. Everybody takes what he can get, no matter if it actually fits his degree or qualification”, she tells Think Africa Press. For the great majority of the population who don’t have any school or university degree at all, the situation is even worse. Those in the larger towns often work seven days a week as craftsmen, mechanics or street hawkers, without making even the official minimum wage of around $65 per month. In the countryside, most people sill rely on subsistence agriculture. If the rains don’t suffice, families are not able to afford school fees for their children and girls are often married off as young as possible because parents hope that the prospective husband can provide for the bride.
Chrysogone Zougmoré is confronted with these kinds of stories every day. The 56-year-old is the president of the largest human rights organisation of Burkina Faso and chair of the Alliance Against the High Cost of Living. The rising costs of living over the last years have driven many people into poverty, he says.
Prices for the most important household goods – basic food stuffs and natural gas for cooking and petrol – are rising constantly. Burkina Faso relies on imports for practically all goods consumed in the country, which makes it highly vulnerable to changes in world market prices. The little money generated through the export of gold, cotton and sesame benefits mostly external investors and the corrupt elite.
Sankara’s social policy
This was different under Sankara, Zougmoré says: “You have to say that social policy under Sankara was really good”. Sankara disappropriated the country’s economic elite who controlled most of the arable land and real estate at that time. The fields were divided between subsistence farmers and in the cities social housing was constructed. He even declared the whole year of 1985 rent free.
In the international sphere, Sankara aspired to a “second independence” from the former colonial master France. He developed ties to the Soviet Union and Cuba, which he admired for its domestic revolution. He despised development aid, conscious of its potential to lead to dependence and external domination.
To make Burkina Faso independent from foreign loans, Sankara tried to create an industrial base for the dominantly agrarian Burkinabé economy. Civil servants were forced to wear locally made clothes during office hours to increase demand. In a move untypical for many socialist presidents, he also supported private business, establishing special economic zones and improving the infrastructure of the country. The programmes paid off: four years after Sankara came to power, Burkina Faso was practically self-sufficient in its demand for basic food stuffs. Today, the government has to import much of its food, even in years with a good harvest. Read more…
Share this:StumbleUponTumblrPinterestLinkedInGoogleMoreTwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

							This entry was posted in Africa - International, West Africa and tagged Burkina and instability in West Africa, Burkina Faso, Sankara and Burkina, Sankara and socialism in Africa, Sankara killed by Compaore, Thomas Sankara. Bookmark the permalink.							


← AU re-admits Mali and discusses intervention
Nigeria – Ribadu reports uncovers corruption in the oil and gas industry →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		











Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










%d bloggers like this:








