Is Gaddafi heading for Burkina Faso?   | Africa - News and Analysis 

Is Gaddafi heading for Burkina Faso?   | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 










← South Africa: Malema the biggest threat since 1994 – News 24
Libya: Gaddafi denies fleeing to Niger →


Is Gaddafi heading for Burkina Faso?

Posted on September 7, 2011 | Leave a comment


The arrival of a large convoy of vehicles and of  Gaddafi’s security chief , Mansour Daw, in Niger’s capital Niamey has set off another round of speculation.  Is Gaddafi with the convoy? Where is the convoy heading?  Are the vehicles packed with arms and gold?
As usual, serious events involving the former Libyan leader are a mixture of fascination and farce. He could be making a run for it and seeking a bolthole.  but on the other hand, he could become a nomadic nuisance, trekking around the porous borders of southern Libya, Chad and Niger , while his lieutenants seek the support or acquiescence of states in whose affairs Gaddafi continually meddled?
One major question is whether he will try to start a desert-based insurgency with his remaining Libyan followers and the remnants of Tuareg and other insurgent groups from Chad, Niger and Mali that he has supported and exploited in the past.  If that is his aim, he will need some sort of permanent presence outside Libya – offices from which his followers can speak to the world and channel funds and arms to their leader.
It would suit Gaddafi’s personality to cast himself as a modern-day Omar Mukhtar – the Bedouin leader who fought the Italian colonizers in the 1920s.
If he is looking for a West African refuge then Burkina is his best bet and the only realistic land route is through Niger.  The Niger government will have been horrified and embarassed by the arrival of the convoy and the danger that they will be dragged into the Libyan morass.
Niger’s Interior Minister, Abdou Labo, told journalists on 6 September that the convoy and Gaddafi’s security chief, Mr Daw, had been allowed into Niger on humanitarian grounds – not that Niger with its long Saharan border and small army was any position to prevent it and is unlikely to have known much about its presence until the convoy reached Agadez, hundreds of miles inside the border.
Niger’s government will only be too happy to see the caravan move on towards Burkina Faso.  But, so far we have no real information just rumour and speculation. Business as usual, one might say, when dealing with the Libyan leader.
The Burkinabe leader, Blaise Compaore, has been Libya’s closest ally in West Africa ever since Compaore overthrew and killed his friend and mentor, Thomas Sankara, in 1987.  Compaore has reportedly offered Gaddafi asylum.  So it’s time for everyone to watch Ougadougou.
Keith Somerville
See also All.Africa.com:
The arrival of a convoy of vehicles carrying someone resembling Mouammar Gaddafi has got tongues wagging in Ouagadougou.
Ever since President Blaise Compaoré offered Gaddafi refuge in Burkino Faso rumours have taken precedence over facts. As yet there has been no official announcement confirming whether or not member of the Gaddafi clan are in fact in the West African state. Read more….
http://allafrica.com/stories/201109061336.html
Share this:StumbleUponTumblrPinterestLinkedInGoogleMoreTwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

							This entry was posted in Africa - International and tagged Burkina Faso, Gaddafi, Libya, Niger. Bookmark the permalink.							


← South Africa: Malema the biggest threat since 1994 – News 24
Libya: Gaddafi denies fleeing to Niger →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		











Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










%d bloggers like this:








