UN crews find second black box at Air Algerie flight AH5017 crash site in Mali - NY Daily News 

UN crews find second black box at Air Algerie flight AH5017 crash site in Mali - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             UN crews find second black box at Air Algerie flight AH5017 crash site in Mali A UN peacekeeping mission found the jet’s second black box in its charred wreckage Saturday. The plane crashed Thursday during a flight from Burkina Faso to Algeria, killing all 118 people on board. The cause of the crash has not been determined. THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Saturday, July 26, 2014, 11:50 AM  A A A        Share this URL                -/AFP/Getty Images A U.N. crew found Air Algerie flight AH5017's second black box, a day after the first was recovered from the wreckage in Mali.    
	BAMAKO, Mali — The U.N. peacekeeping mission in Mali said Saturday that its experts found the second black box of the Air Algerie plane that fell from the sky and disintegrated in remote northern Mali, killing all 118 people onboard.

	U.N. specialists located the second black box that may help to determine what caused the plane to go down, according to a statement by the U.N. mission.

	The Air Algerie jet was flying from Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, to Algiers, Algeria on Thursday when it went down in a remote part of northern Mali near the border with Burkina Faso.    -/AFP/Getty Images No survivors were found at the charred crash site. All 118 people on the plane were killed.   

	The Burkina Faso government has flown three family members of those killed aboard the jet to the site in Mali where debris from the plane and the remains of passengers are scattered, said spokesman Victorien Sawadogo.

	A government helicopter on Saturday morning transported the family members — from France, Lebanon and Burkina Faso — so they could view the results of the air disaster, he said. A psychologist is accompanying them and a second flight to the site was planned later Saturday, he said.      

	Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore will meet with other family members Saturday afternoon, said the spokesman.

	In Paris, French President Francois Hollande was meeting on Saturday with families of victims. Nearly half of the victims were French.    SIA KAMBOU/AFP/Getty Images Investigators have not determined the cause of the crash.   

	Spanish and Algerian officials flew to Burkina Faso Saturday to express their condolences.

	"We send a message of condolences, sympathy, solidarity and availability to the people of Burkina Faso," Amar Ghoule, the Algerian minister of transportation and special envoy of president Aziz Bouteflika, told journalists after meeting with Compaore.      -/AFP/Getty Images The plane crashed less than an hour after it took off from Burkina Faso.    SIA KAMBOU/AFP/Getty Images It was on its way to Algeria.    SIA KAMBOU/AFP/Getty Images Nearly half of the victims were French.    SIA KAMBOU/AFP/Getty Images All six of the jet's crew members were Spanish.    Previous Next        Enlarge  

	The Spanish ambassador in Burkina Fernando Maran also expressed "the will of the Spanish government to collaborate with Burkina Faso and other countries by making available all technical and human means that they have." All six members of flight AH 5017 were Spanish.

	In Ouagadougou, a supermarket has been closed for the second day after the loss of the owner. Eight Lebanese nationals died in the crash, according to the Burkinabe press.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH VIDEO HERE.     Related Stories    Black box found in Air Algerie flight AH5017 wreckage: France           Air Algerie plane wreckage reportedly found           


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Colo. man reportedly forgets why he gunned down two women      Jose Gabriel King allegedly gunned down roommate Amanda Anders, 19, and her pal Nancy Worrell, 22, at his Denver apartment Wednesday night, according to reports.       Virgin Galactic mishap likely pilot error: officials      A fatal crash won’t stop Richard Branson from reaching for the stars with his commercial space program.
       Man shoots and kills ex-girlfriend's boyfriend, himself      A love triangle turned deadly when a man fatally blasted his ex-girlfriend’s new beau with a shotgun in Long Island Sunday night and then committed suicide, cops said.       Driver ejected from car and killed after Belt Parkway crash      A speeding 27-year-old driver died after he was ejected from his car and the vehicle plunged off an elevated highway in Brooklyn early Monday, cops said.       Philly father-daughter duo beat man with bat, shoot with gun: cops      A father-daughter duo in Philadelphia has been charged in an apparent act of vigilante justice after they beat and shot a homeless man suspected of breaking into neighborhood cars, police say.       Boy, 8, killed by flying puck at French ice hockey match      A young ice hockey fan was tragically killed after being hit by a flying puck while watching a game in France.       Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life      Brittany Maynard, the cancer-stricken Californian who became the face of the “death with dignity” movement when she relocated to Oregon and announced plans to take her own life, completed the act Saturday.       SEE IT: Fireball meteor explode as it plunges toward Earth      A meteor has been caught on camera lighting up the night. Spectacular time-lapse footage shows the gigantic space rock slamming into the Earth's atmosphere at around 180,000 mph.       Angie Harmon, Jason Sehorn split       Angie Harmon and Jason Sehorn have called it quits. The 42-year-old actress and former New York Giant, 43, have decided to amicably separate after 13 years of marriage, a rep for Harmon confirmed to People magazine.       Fla. Navy vet saves 76-year-old from purse snatcher      Kendrick Taylor was reportedly heading to the gym in Orange County Wednesday when he spotted Rosemary Carelton being attacked       Chopper crew suspended for dropping candy at Halloween party      A National Guard chopper crew scared Arizona residents by making a midair candy drop to a private Halloween party in their Black Hawk have been suspended.       Supreme Court to hear case on Israeli passport      THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 

      The Supreme Court is taking its second look at a dispute over the wording of U.S. passports for Americans born in Jerusalem, a case with potential foreign policy implications in the volatile Middle East.       Wash. state attorney dresses up as Jedi to sue city for pot ban      Rick Laws, wearing a white swath similar to Luke Skywalker in the 'Star Wars' movies, filed the motion against the city and four councilmen who voted to implement the restriction on Halloween.        Blaz praises Bratton, says there’s no conflict between them      In a strong show of support, Mayor de Blasio on Sunday called NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton “the finest police leader in the United States” and denounced a report of a rift between them.

       Drunk Neb. teen crash-lands pickup truck on 18-yard line: cops      The 16-year-old reportedly escaped with minor injuries following the horror smash on South High's Collins Field stadium in Omaha at 3 a.m. Sunday       Kurdish leader says forces will fight ISIS in Syria 'temporarily'      The prime minister of Iraq’s semiautonomous Kurdish region said his forces will only stay in Syria 'temporarily' as they seek to help defend the city of Kobani from ISIS militants.       Daredevil Nik Wallenda completes two Chicago skyscraper crossings       The 35-year-old high-wire artist, great-grandson of Karl Wallenda of the famous Flying Wallendas circus family, successfully walked on a tightrope between two Chicago skyscrapers Sunday night — then doubled down on the spectacle by donning a blindfold and doing another 600-foot-high walk.       Mom arrested over photo of 14-month-old son hanging from hook      Alexis Breeden, 18, turned herself in to Spotsylvania County Sheriff's Office last week after the disgusting image went viral and a felony warrant was issued for her arrest.       Parents say flu shot left Fla. girl bedridden, unable to speak      A flu shot meant to protect a Florida girl instead was the likely culprit that left the 10-year-old bedridden and mostly unable to speak.       Man, 58, critically injured after being struck while jaywalking on UES      A 58-year-old man was critically injured when he was struck by a car while jaywalking on the Upper East Side on Sunday night, police said.              Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life     2   NBC meteorologist appears to relieve himself during broadcast     3   Alabama family conducted group sex ring with children: police     4   Woman busted for drugs also charged with having sex with dog      5   Virgin Galactic mishap likely pilot error: officials     6   Mom arrested over photo of 14-month-old son hanging from hook     7   Washington state soldier accused of killing 19-year-old wife free on bail     8   Woman, 22, disappears from party after talking to stranger: family     9   Woman sexually abuses boy, 3, and has sex with dog: police     10   HIV-positive shoplifter tries to infect Texas Walmart worker: cops          1   VIDEO: Cute panda cubs avoid taking their medicine      2   Stricter laws against texting while driving take effect in New York     3   Dying death-with-dignity advocate Brittany Maynard ends own life     4   Parents say flu shot left Fla. girl bedridden, unable to speak     5   Woman devastated when she realizes she isn’t Nicki Minaj     6   NBC meteorologist appears to relieve himself during broadcast     7   N.C. cheerleaders chant the N-word during team photo at football game (VIDEO)     8   LOVETT: Gov. Cuomo’s reelection campaign said to widen rift with liberal  base     9   Daredevil Nik Wallenda completes two Chicago skyscraper crossings      10   Girl, 3, catches man in Tigger costume having sex in public toilet                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE      World News Video


    Time to take a break!      Test your skills with popular games including 7 Little Words, daily Sudoku, and crosswords.           


      








Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      