Burkina Faso army appoints transitional leader after president leaves office amid protests | 680News  
Burkina Faso army appoints transitional leader after president leaves office amid protests | 680News






Skip to navigation
Skip to content
Skip to sidebar
Go to Mobile Site






Advertisement







680News








Insider Club


Welcome back, !
Enter Club »




Username



Password
















Register
Forgot Password




Remember me


Login with facebook







Search

Go











Home

News

Traffic

Weather
Audio

Video
Business

Sportsnet
Entertainment

Contests & Insider Club
Inside 680

 












 




Home»News»World»Burkina Faso army appoints transitional leader after president leaves office amid protests	


Print

			Text:			a
A





 

People walk near the Azalai Hotel swimming pool after the hotel was looted by anti-government protestors days before in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Saturday, Nov. 1, 2014. Burkina Faso's former president fled to neighboring Ivory Coast with his family after violent protests drove him from power after 27 years in office, Ivory Coast said Saturday, as a largely unknown military colonel said he had taken the helm. (AP Photo/Theo Renaut)

AP Photo/Theo Renaut 




Burkina Faso army appoints transitional leader after president leaves office amid protests



		Brahima Ouedraogo, The Associated Press		Nov 1, 2014 12:49:41 PM



0
Share



OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso – Burkina Faso’s army appointed a military colonel as transitional leader on Saturday, it said, after the West African country’s president resigned from 27 years in office amid violent protests against his continued power.
Lt. Col. Isaac Yacouba Zida was unanimously appointed by the army to lead Burkina Faso, the army said in a declaration. “The period of transition” and its “form and duration will be determined later,” said the declaration that was drafted and signed after senior officers met with the joint chief of staff Saturday.
Blaise Compaore resigned Friday after protesters stormed parliament and set the building ablaze following two days of violent demonstrations against his bid to amend the constitution to stand next year for another term. His move left the impoverished West African country in a state of uncertainty, and both Joint Chief of Staff Gen. Honore Traore and Zida had made remarks that they were in power.
Compaore, his family and those close to him had been taken in by Ivory Coast, according to a statement from the office of President Alassane Ouattara. It did not elaborate. It said Ouattara was following events “with particular attention.”
Earlier Saturday, Zida said that the president’s resignation amid violent street protests was an “insurrection” and not a coup, and that Compaore and a top aide were both safe.
“Starting today I will assume all the responsibilities of this transition and of head of state,” he said in an announcement carried on radio early Saturday.
Zida was the second in command of the president’s security regiment. Having been in Burkina Faso’s ranks for more than two decades, Zida is close to the president and appreciated by lower ranking soldier.
Zida called on the international community including the African Union to “support our people during this difficult ordeal.” He had announced that the country’s borders had been closed, a transitional committee had been set up and the constitution had been suspended.
Gen. Traore, the joint chief of staff, had on Friday told reporters that he would assume the presidency until elections were called, so Lt. Col. Zida’s declaration Saturday caused initial confusion.
Over the course of several dramatic hours, Compaore, 63, went from looking likely to jam through parliament a bill that would let him seek a fifth term to agreeing to step down next year to abandoning office immediately.
The quick succession of events took many by surprise, since Compaore had long out-manoeuvred his adversaries and has in recent years become an important regional mediator. Burkina Faso hosts French special forces and serves as an important ally of both France and the United States in the fight against Islamic militants in West Africa.
The United States called on Burkina Faso’s military to follow “the constitutionally mandated process for the transfer of power and holding of democratic elections.”
“We condemn any attempts by the military or other parties to take advantage of the situation for unconstitutional gain and call on all parties to respect the people’s support for the democratic process,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said.
Compaore first came to power following the October 1987 coup against then-President Thomas Sankara, Compaore’s longtime friend and political ally who was killed in the power grab.
While he was respected on the international stage, critics noted that, under Compaore’s semi-authoritarian rule, the country of 18 million people remained mired in poverty. The landlocked country’s fortunes rise and fall with gold and cotton prices — and adequate rain in a region plagued by drought.
___
Associated Press reporter Jamey Keaten in Paris and Carley Petesch in Johannesburg contributed to this report.


Print

			Text:			a
A





Comments



Recommended


Most recent








Editor's note:  Comments which include offensive or inappropriate language will be deleted. Healthy debate is encouraged but we will not permit any personal attacks. View our comment policy here.			


Leave a Comment Below Cancel reply

All fields are required.  






 

Logged in via Facebook as
(unknown) (Logout)
			



Also share on Facebook.



Logged in via Twitter as
(unknown) (Logout)
			



Also share on Twitter.

Name * 
Email * 
Comment Want to embed media into your comment? Just paste in a URL in a separate paragraph to the page where you would normally view the media (like on YouTube) and it will automatically be embedded into your comment. 
Please enter the following letters (required):












 




Close

 






 No, thanks





Features
 Gas Prices
 680News App
 Weather Guarantee
 Advertise With Us
 









Traffic
Weather



 

All Cameras and Manage Favorites




 
					Loading…				
 
Monday’s Weather Guarantee
Jackpot: $14,900
Guarantee: 12 C
Info: Sign up to win
Latest Winner: James Greer ($1,700)

5-Day Forecast
					|
					More Weather

 


 
Listen To The Latest Traffic Report

[Download] (To download: Right click -> Save as) 

 



 
 



 
follow 680News 
Follow
Like
RSS
Subscribe
Mobile


 
 



 
Most Popular




Read


Commented


Shared





Today
This Week
This Month
All



















Today
This Week
This Month
All



















Today
This Week
This Month
All


















 
Facebook
Twitter


























680News
Home
About
Contact Us
Insider Club
Site Map
Advertise With Us
 

Local News Radio Across Canada
Toronto, ON — 680News
Vancouver, BC — News1130
Calgary, AB — 660News
Kitchener, ON — 570News
Ottawa, ON – 1310News
Halifax, NS — News 95.7
 

Digital News Awards




 





























 


























































