African protesters launch 'Black Spring’ in Burkina Faso - Telegraph 
African protesters launch 'Black Spring’ in Burkina Faso - Telegraph

























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









NewSearch








		Monday 03 November 2014















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
Africa and Indian Ocean»
Burkina Faso











African protesters launch 'Black Spring’ in Burkina Faso

The fate of one of Africa's longest-serving leaders hangs in the balance after 
  thousands storm parliament and state TV as uprising sweeps Burkino Faso












Protesters outside the parliament in Ouagadougou as cars and documents burn outside Photo: Issouf Sanogo/AFP/Getty Images









 






							By 
											David Blair, Chief Foreign Correspondent

8:14PM GMT 30 Oct 2014

Follow


 



The fate of one of Africa's longest-serving leaders hung in the balance on 
  Thursday night as a popular uprising swept Burkina Faso and black smoke 
  billowed from the parliament building. 


President Blaise Compaore, who seized power in a coup in 1987, became the 
  target of one of the few popular insurrections in the history of sub-Saharan 
  Africa. 


The trigger for the unrest was Mr Compaore's attempt to rewrite the 
  constitution to allow himself to seek re-election next year. As the vote was 
  due to take place, tens of thousands of people stormed parliament. They set 
  the building ablaze, looted government offices and burst inside the 
  headquarters of state television in the capital, Ouagadougou. 


Soldiers opened fire with live rounds, killing at least three people, but 
  failed to disperse the crowds. 


Mr Compaore declared a state of emergency on Thursday night, before lifting it 
  hours later. 

Related Articles



Burkina Faso parliament in flames

30 Oct 2014



Burkina Faso demonstrators celebrate setting parliament alight

30 Oct 2014



Burkina Faso protesters set fire to parliament

30 Oct 2014





In a televised speech, he insisted that he would not resign, but he dropped 
  his plan to change the constitution and offered to negotiate a transfer of 
  power. “I have heard the message,” said Mr Compaore. 


But his whereabouts are unclear. Some reports suggested that he had fled 
  Burkina Faso. If the president has been deposed, he will have fallen victim 
  to the first successful revolution in the history of sub-Saharan Africa. 


As they stormed public buildings across Ouagadougou, the protesters chanted: "It's 
  over for the regime!" Others cried: "We do not want him [Mr 
  Compaore] again!"


The position of the army will be central in determining Mr Compaore's fate. 
  The head of Burkina Faso’s armed forces announced the creation of a national 
  transitional government on Thursday night, although he did not say who would 
  lead it. “A transitional body will be put in place in consultation with all 
  parties. A return to the constitutional order is expected in no more than 12 
  months," said General Honore Traore at a news conference. 


The army also announced a curfew from 7pm until 6am local time. 


Gen Kouame Lougue, a former defence minister, is seen as the most likely 
  replacement for Mr Compaore. 


Burkina Faso, formerly the French colony of Upper Volta, had been a pillar of 
  relative stability in a deeply troubled region. The country provides France 
  with a military base for the campaign against al-Qaeda's allies in 
  neighbouring Mali. About 3,000 French citizens live in Burkina Faso. 


If Mr Compaore has been overthrown, France and the Western powers will be 
  concerned about the emergence of a new conflict in an area already 
  penetrated by Islamist terrorism. 


"A crisis in Burkina Faso would not only mean the loss of a key ally and 
  a strategic base for France and the US, it would also reduce the capacity of 
  an African country in dealing with regional conflicts," said a report 
  from the International Crisis Group (ICG), a conflict-prevention 
  organisation. Mr Compaore had become a "watchdog helping Western 
  countries monitor the security situation in the Sahel and the Sahara", 
  added the ICG. 


Mr Compaore, 63, overthrew his friend and patron, Thomas Sankara, to seize the 
  presidency 27 years ago. A former protégé of Col Muammar Gaddafi, he became 
  a key power broker in the region. 


The opposition compared the unrest to the uprisings of the Arab Spring. "October 
  30 is Burkina Faso's Black Spring, like the Arab Spring," said Emile 
  Pargui Pare, from the Movement of People for Progress. 


About 60 per cent of Burkina Faso's 17 million people are under the age of 25. 
  After spending their entire lives under Mr Compaore's rule, the 
  demonstrations on Thursday seemed to be the moment when their patience 
  cracked. 










 








Burkina Faso





News »


World News »


Africa and Indian Ocean »


David Blair »









In Burkina Faso






 


Burkina Faso parliament in flames








 


Night of the Lion »








 


Rats detect land mines »








 


Turning the tables








 


'Finprinting' sharks








 















Read more World News





Feminist T-shirt scandal: blame fashion, not feminism




 




The CMT factory workers in Mauritius show how the fashion industry exploits 
  feminism, says Bryony Gordon


Comments






Republicans boost tech to win votes




 


 Video


The US Republican party is using technology to get real-time information about 
  North Carolina residents and potential voters 


Comments






Celebrity sightings




 




Conchita Wurst meets Ban Ki-moon






No, Angela Merkel hasn't issued an 'ultimatum' to David Cameron over EU migrants




 




Germany certainly doesn't want the UK to leave the EU, so suggestions that 
  Angela Merkel is happy to let Brexit happen are wide of the mark, says Mats 
  Persson


Comments






Islamic State advances on Homs in serious threat to Assad




 



As the world focuses on Kobane, jihadists have pressed deep inside Syria – advancing on both Idlib and Homs 





The world's most dangerous roads




 




As the most dangerous road in Britain is revealed, we take a look at other 
  routes where a healthy dose of caution is required


Comments






Switzerland shooting leaves three dead near Interlaken




 




Three bodies found in a Swiss car park after a reported shooting 






Australian 'idiot' surfs dead whale as sharks circle




 


 Video


Australian Harrison Williams thought 'it would be pretty funny' to risk his 
  life by jumping into shark-infested waters in a bizarre attempt to surf a 
  dead whale 






Day of the Dead celebrations around the world




 




Dia de Muertos festival, in pictures 








Future of money: welcome to cashless Sweden




 


 Video


Sweden printed Europe's first bank notes 350 years ago.  Now the country is 
  leading the way to cashless payments









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook







Advertisement










More from the web







Advertisement











More from the web 











News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








MPs to escape expenses investigations after paperwork destroyed by Parliament
Hong Kong murders: British suspect 'devastated' by fiancee's betrayal
Cancer sufferer Brittany Maynard ends life aged 29
Australian 'idiot' surfs dead whale as sharks circle
Hong Kong police 'investigate thousands of images of dead bodies on Rurik Jutting's phone'




Life under Obama sucks. And these numbers prove it
Alfie, 13, is not baby's father
Cameron shoved by 'jogger' in major security breach
Pianist Maria Jo o Pires panics as she realises the orchestra has started the wrong concerto
'Evil clowns' stalk France




Dwarf stripper gets bride pregnant on her hen night
Escape from North Korea: 'How I escaped horrors of life under Kim Jong-il'
Renee Zellweger: what has happened to her face?
Oscar Pistorius sentence live: judgment day
Alfie, 13, is not baby's father










Advertisement











More from the web»




















MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK








 
				Football




 




						Catch up on all the latest football news



						View







 
				Barnebys




 




						A toilet, a tooth, it's the world’s weirdest auction lots



						View







 
				Audi




 




						Audi R18 in pictures



						View







 
				Goodwood




 




						The very best of Goodwood's Moving Motor Show in pictures



						View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence
Health

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact Us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2014
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































