
	Burkina Faso: Ghost of 'Africa's Che Guevara' - Features - Al Jazeera English
 

	Burkina Faso: Ghost of 'Africa's Che Guevara' - Features - Al Jazeera English


















































News
Shows
In Depth
Opinion
Human Rights
Video
Blogs
Sport

Investigations
Weather
Watch Live











Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Central & South Asia
Europe
Middle East




Inside Story
Witness
Listening Post
People & Power
101 East
The Stream
More




Focus
Features
In Pictures
Interactive
Spotlight




Football
Cricket
Tennis
Formula One
Golf
US Sports
Features
More




 




 




 




 




 




Counting the Cost
News




 




This month on Al Jazeera
















 












Features










                    Burkina Faso: Ghost of 'Africa's Che Guevara'
                
















In the weeks before violent protests, some
Burkinabes' thoughts turned to slain leader Thomas Sankara for inspiration.




Kingsley Kobo

                            Last updated: 31 Oct 2014 10:52
































At the time of his murder Sankara was just 37 and had ruled for four years [La Vie de Sankara in Ouagadougou]






Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso - In the early hours of a night in 1987, one of Africa’s youngest leaders, Thomas Sankara, was murdered and quietly and quickly buried in a shallow grave.
Now, the man widely believed to be behind it, Burkina Faso's president, has watched as his parliament was set ablaze by furious protesters who want him gone.
Many of the protesters say the history of the slain 1980s leader partly inspired them to rise against Blaise Compaore, who has been in power for 27 years and was trying, by a vote in parliament, for another five.
Though some see Sankara as an autocrat who came to office by the power of the gun, and who ignored basic human rights in pursuit of his ideals, in recent years he has been cited as a revolutionary inspiration not only in Burkina Faso but in other countries across Africa.
In the weeks before the current chaos, Al Jazeera spoke to people in the capital, Ouagadougou, and found many who predicted that Sankara’s memory, and Compaore's attempt to seek another five-year term, may soon spark an uprising.





While revolutionaries as individuals can be murdered, you cannot kill ideas.
Thomas Sankara, speaking one week before he was shot dead.





At the time of his assassination Sankara was just 37 and had ruled for only four years.
But his policies, and his vision, are still cherished both by some locals who were around when he was in power and, significantly, by many young people who were born since his death.
His killing was the the fifth coup since the nation won independence from France and the main beneficiary was Compaore, who quickly took his place.
Until that night, the two had often been referred to as best friends.
Although there is less poverty now than back then, a growing number of Burkinabés had, in recent years, started to feel that Sankara's nationalisation policies may have made the perpetually arid nation a more prosperous and self-reliant place than it is today.
"Sankara wanted a thriving Burkina Faso, relying on local human and natural resources as opposed to foreign aid," retired professor of economics, Noel Nébié, told Al Jazeera.
"And starting with agriculture, which represents more than 32 per cent of the country's GDP and employs 80 percent of the working population, he smashed the economic elite who controlled most of the arable land and granted access to subsistence farmers. That improved production making the country almost self-sufficient."
Naming a nation
Initially known as the Republic of Upper Volta, after the river, in 1984 Sankara changed the country's name to Burkina Faso, meaning Land of the Upright People, and he soon made that name the symbol of his nationalisation crusade.





  


Tens of thousands protested in the capital as parliament was set on fire [AFP]




Some say the fact he authored his nation's name has kept his memory alive.
"When you wake up in the morning and you remember you are a Burkinabe, you automatically recall the person who thought up that local name and stamped it on us," Ishmael Kaboré, a 47-year-old lawyer in Ouagadougou, told Al Jazeera.
"At first, people felt the name Burkina Faso was odd, awkward and far from the modern and foreign names other countries were bearing in Africa.
"But they realised after his death that Sankara wanted to give us a unique and special identity that tells our history and depicts our character."
Sankara was a determined pan-Africanist, whose foreign policies were largely centred on anti-imperialism. His government spurned foreign aid and tried to stamp out the influence of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in the country by adopting debt reduction policies and nationalising all land and mineral wealth.
Self-sufficiency and land reform policies were designed to fight famine, a nationwide literacy campaign was launched, and families were ordered to have their children vaccinated.
"Some families used to keep their children in hiding on the arrival of vaccinators for religious or ritual reasons, and that practice was sabotaging our efforts," Fatoumata Koulibaly, assistant campaign director at the country's health ministry under Sankara, told Al Jazeera.
"But when Sankara came he took a strong stand against it, which helped in the vaccination of close to three million children against meningitis, yellow fever and measles, etc."
Vaccination has been common practice in Burkina Faso since then, she said.
Anger bubbles up
Sankara was often referred to as "Africa's Che Guevara" because he regularly quoted, and said he drew inspiration from, the world famous revolutionary leader. Sankara was also a good friend of former Ghanaian president, and fellow revolutionary, Jerry Rawlings.
Even for his most ardent of supporters it is impossible to know whether, if Sankara had not been killed, life would have been better, and some argue that it would not have.





Only very few people are enjoying the wealth of the country. If you visit homes, or travel to the hinterlands, you will experience an appalling level of poverty.
Seydou Yabré,  rural development expert 





But many people spoken to by Al Jazeera believed things would be better today if he was still alive, and that sentiment is partly responsible for Thursday's events.
"Young people who were not alive during Sankara’s administration are beginning to look back more at that period because something is wrong in the country today," 23-year-old University of Ouagadougou student, Ibrahim Sanogo, said.
"Sankara was not just fighting imperialism for the sake of politics but he wanted the Burkinabe people to develop themselves and their land and rely essentially on themselves instead of the West.
"Today, all the young graduates are dreaming to travel abroad to do odd jobs because of lack of employment opportunities here."
Compaore, though, has had some success. The mining industry has seen a boost in recent years, with the copper, iron and manganese markets all improving. Gold production shot up by 32 percent in 2011 at six sites, according to figures from the mines ministry, making Burkina Faso the fourth-largest gold producer in Africa.
Growth is running at seven percent. But per capita income stands at just $790, and local people say the standard of living is very poor for most. Corruption and elitism are a problem, they say, with any wealth only in the hands of the few.
"Those World Bank and IMF figures are seen only on paper and not in the pockets of the Burkinabes," Seydou Yabré, an independent rural development expert, told Al Jazeera.
"Only very few people are enjoying the wealth of the country. If you visit homes, or travel to the hinterlands, you will experience an appalling level of poverty."
Eerie prediction
Perhaps Sankara's anti-corruption campaign and exemplary modest lifestyle could have forced wealth to trickle down if he had been left alive to lead, Yabré thought.
"Sankara was Africa’s most down-to-earth president then. He lived in a small, modest house, rode a bicycle and had $350 in his account at the time of his death," Yabré said.
"He was also contested within his inner circle because he never wanted his army colleagues to embezzle public funds and lead a flamboyant lifestyle."
  
Famously - and eerily - just a week before his death, perhaps sensing what was to come, Sankara said: "While revolutionaries as individuals can be murdered, you cannot kill ideas."
Burkina Faso’s progress over the past 20 years was largely due to its stability, many observers say, but, as was made clear when a crowd of the country's people converged on the parliament intent on destruction, an anger left to fester can take that away in an instant.
"Sankara had many enemies because he wrested privileges from looters in favour of the poor," Yabré said. "Maybe he did this too radically and within too short a time."
Follow Kingsley Kobo on Twitter: @KoboKingsley


1376










                    Source:
                

                    
                    Al Jazeera
                






































Topics in this article

People
Thomas Sankara
Blaise Compaore
Ibrahim Sanogo
Jerry Rawlings
Ishmael Kabor
Fatoumata Koulibaly


Country
Burkina Faso
France


City
Ouagadougou


Organisation
World Bank
University of Ouagadougou
International Monetary Fund
Ministry of Mines, Quarries and Energy



































                Featured on Al Jazeera










Gunning down the taxmen of Somalia




        At least 25 tax collectors have been killed since 2012 in Mogadishu, a city awash in weapons and abject poverty.
    


















Down and out in upscale Japan




        Tokyo government claims its homeless population has hit a record low, but analysts - and the homeless - beg to differ.
    


















3D printing and the future of disaster relief




        3D printers can cheaply construct homes and could soon be deployed to help victims of catastrophe rebuild their lives.
    


















Protecting Mongolia's parent-less children




        Lack of child protection laws means abandoned and orphaned kids rely heavily on the care of strangers.
    























Content on this website is for general information purposes only. 

Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect 

liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and global license for no consideration to 

use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in accordance with Community 

Rules & Guidelines and Terms and 

Conditions.





Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.












 








            Top News Accordion
        







Top News







Bangladesh party official faces death penalty





Blast hits Shia ceremony in Nigeria's Yobe





Dozens drown after boat sinks near Turkey





ISIL 'kills scores' in Iraqi province





US 'death-with-dignity' advocate passes away






















            News
        







Features






Japan's rich Muslim past and present





Ebola: Banning West Africans from Australia





ISIL: More than just brutality on the battlefield





Latino concerns and US midterm elections





Australian farmers fight new gold mine 






















            What's Hot
        





What's Hot



Viewed


Discussed


7 Days













                                ISIL 'kills scores' in Iraqi province
                            






                                The Day Israel Attacked America
                            






                                Kobane is a gift to Assad 
                            






                                Merkel warns UK's Cameron over EU immigration
                            






                                Bangladesh party official faces death penalty
                            






                                Blast hits Shia ceremony in Nigeria's Yobe
                            






                                Baghdad braces for more ISIL attacks
                            






                                US 'death-with-dignity' advocate passes away
                            






                                Hear the human story
                            






                                Ebola cases 'surge' in rural Sierra Leone
                            



















{Title}













                        The Day Israel Attacked America
                    






                        Iraqi Peshmerga set to join Kobane battle
                    






                        Clashes in Jerusalem after shooting of rabbi
                    






                        Israel plans 1,000 settler homes in Jerusalem
                    






                        Egypt to clear residents from Gaza border
                    






                        UN condemns Israeli settlement expansion
                    






                        Sweden recognises state of Palestine
                    






                        Peshmerga in Kobane fire rockets at ISIL
                    






                        Israel reopens Al-Aqsa amid intense security
                    






                        Iraqi peshmerga fighters cross into Kobane
                    















                                The Day Israel Attacked America
                            






                                War on Terror, War on Muslims?
                            






                                Western fascination with 'badass' Kurdish women
                            






                                Kurds 'repulse ISIL push' in Syria's Kobane
                            






                                Sweden recognises state of Palestine
                            






                                Iraqi Peshmerga set to join Kobane battle
                            






                                Missing Nigerian schoolgirls 'married off'
                            






                                Illegally mining Russia's 'Baltic gold' 
                            






                                Clashes in Jerusalem after shooting of rabbi
                            






                                Egypt to clear residents from Gaza border
                            



















{Title}





















 



  







            Featured
        














Russia's 'Baltic gold'


            Booming global trade in 50-million-year-old amber stones is lucrative, controversial, and extremely dangerous. 
        
















Last of the Crow Indian war chiefs turns 101


            Legendary Native-American High Bird was trained in ancient warrior traditions, which he employed in World War II. 
        
















Malaysia Anwar


            Hounded opposition figure says he's hoping for the best at sodomy appeal but prepared to return to prison.
        
















Canada attacks


            Fears of rising Islamophobia and racial profiling after two soldiers killed in separate incidents. 
        
















Rape allegations and IRA paramilitary justice


            Group's culture of summary justice is back in Northern Ireland's spotlight after new sexual assault accusations.
        

















            Opinion
        












Kobane is a gift to Assad 
James Denselow














#BeenRapedNeverReported
Antonia Zerbisias 














A final warning on climate change
Nick Fillmore














 Sikhs mark anniversary of injustice
Hartosh Singh Bal














Blame Washington for continuing crisis in Syria 
Merve Sebnem Oruc














 Canada's closed door policy for Syrian refugees
Peter Goodspeed














Burkina Faso, African leaders and 'sit-tightism' 
Tolu Ogunlesi














Getting Hollywood's nod for Palestinian film 
Hamid Dabashi














Ecuador's FM wants transnational corporations held accountable
Ricardo Patino














Sistine Chapel for rent: Is nothing sacred?
Michael Walsh
















 



















Al Jazeera
Watch Live
Video
Podcasts
RSS
Mobile
Follow on Twitter






News
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Central & South Asia
Europe
Middle East
Sport




In Depth
Opinion
Features
Spotlight
In Pictures
Blogs
Interactive




Shows
The Stream
Witness
Inside Story
Inside Story Americas
Listening Post
People & Power
Fault Lines
Artscape




The Frost Interview
101 East
Counting The Cost
Talk to Al Jazeera
Empire
The Cafe
Al Jazeera World
South2North
Inside Syria




Watch
Live
On Demand
Podcasts
Mobile
Broadcast Schedule
Weather
Hotel/Partners
Search




More
About Us
Licensing footage
Press Office
Work for us
Al Jazeera America
Al Jazeera Turk
AJ Center for Studies
AJ Balkans
Investigations
Community Rules
Terms & Conditions





































































