Obama suggests more gun control needed in wake of South Carolina church shooting | myfox8.com 
Obama suggests more gun control needed in wake of South Carolina church shooting | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Obama suggests more gun control needed in wake of South Carolina church shooting

Posted 12:53 pm, June 18, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 12:56pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Stock image. 


×
Obama suggests more gun control needed in wake of South Carolina church shooting


 Stock image.


WASHINGTON, D.C. — In the wake of the Charleston, S.C., church shooting that left nine people dead, President Barack Obama suggested Thursday that more gun control is needed to avoid similar mass killings.
“We do know that once again, innocent people were killed in part because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hands on a gun,” Obama said at the White House.
“At some point, we as a people will have to reckon with the fact that this kind of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries. It doesn’t happen in other places with this kind of frequency. It is in our power to do something about it.”
With Vice President Joe Biden standing alongside him, Obama said, “Any death of this sort is a tragedy. Any shooting involving multiple victims is a tragedy. There is something particularly heartbreaking about death happening in a place in which we seek solace, we seek peace.”



Filed in: News Topics: Barack Obama, church shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Clinton, Obama seek gun control in wake of Charleston massacre


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


News

Obama uses N-word, says we are ‘not cured’ of racism


News

Americans are buying more guns than ever before


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm



 


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect


News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

Obama will restrict military equipment from local police


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

Walter Scott, shot in the back after police stop, is laid to rest



 


News

Obama: ‘No excuse’ for violence in Baltimore


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















