South Carolina police officer charged with murder, could face death penalty | fox13now.com 
South Carolina police officer charged with murder, could face death penalty | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: Sports Page 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

81°







81°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					67°  91°
					


Tue


					66°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







South Carolina police officer charged with murder, could face death penalty

Posted 5:27 pm, April 7, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (4 images)





Inline

 


By Dana Ford

CNN


(CNN) — A South Carolina officer has been charged with murder after a video surfaced that appears to show him shooting an unarmed man who was running away.
Michael Slager, an officer with the North Charleston Police Department, was arrested Tuesday, according to a statement from the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division, or SLED. If found guilty of murder, he could face up to life in prison or death.
The shooting took place Saturday after a traffic stop, SLED said. Video obtained by The New York Times shows what happened.
A black man breaks away from the white officer. Something falls, and the officer fires eight shots at the man as the man runs away. The man, who appears to be unarmed, drops to the ground.
“I can tell you that as the result of that video and the bad decision made by our officer, he will be charged with murder,” North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey told reporters Tuesday. “When you’re wrong, you’re wrong.”
CNN affiliate WCIV identified the victim as 50-year-old Walter Scott. His family spoke to WCIV over the weekend, before the officer was arrested, describing Scott as a good man who was about to be married.
“All we want is the truth, and we’ll go any length to get that so that my brother can rest in peace,” Anthony Scott told the affiliate.
According to WCIV, Slager initially said through his attorney, David Aylor, that he followed the appropriate policies and procedures. Aylor later told CNN that he no longer represents the officer, and it was unclear whether Slager had obtained new representation.


CNN’s Chandler Friedman contributed to this report.


The-CNN-Wire
™ & © 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: crime, Michael Slager, murder 








			4 comments		




 

maryhadit

Why were they locked together? The story said he breaks away! Why was he being detained ? And what fell? This article is lacking information that could inform the public about the important stuff! This is too short for a short story!




							April 7, 2015 at 6:50 pm						








 

jbags

Fox News = Lack of facts.  Let’s just move along here.




							April 8, 2015 at 8:32 am						










 

Kdc

Where’s Bob so he can try and justify this shooting?




							April 8, 2015 at 4:24 pm						








 

BBB

Spare me the “he was a good man”. He didn’t deserve to be plugged full of bullets, but come one…..a good man doesn’t run from the cops.




							April 13, 2015 at 5:11 am						






Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students







 


Latest News



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship



Utah teacher returns with lessons learned at space academy for educators





 












News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video


News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect in mass shooting


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Suspect in NYPD cop shooting faces attempted murder charges



 


News

Minister: “No evildoer, no demon” can close church targeted by shooter


News

LAPD chief concerned if officer’s fatal shooting of unarmed man was ‘justified’


News

Officer shows ‘great restraint’ not shooting charging suspect, chief says


News

Suspect in New Orleans cop killing had access to guns in patrol car, police say


News

Dallas police HQ shooting: Suspect killed during standoff



 


News

Ten California deputies put on leave after video shows man being beaten in San Bernardino County


News

Wounded deputy testifies about shooting in Grunwald trial


News

NYPD officer Brian Moore, who was shot in head, dies






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,102 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















