Police search for shooters in two morning shootings | Fox 59 
Police search for shooters in two morning shootings | Fox 59






GoSearch








FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Police search for shooters in two morning shootings

Posted 4:55 PM, June 28, 2015, by Jim Scott 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 



×
Police search for shooters in two morning shootings


 


INDIANAPOLIS,Ind. (June 28, 2015)–Metropolitan police continue to look for two gunmen in separate shootings Sunday morning.
Shortly before 2 a.m. police were called to the 1400 block of Charing Cross Drive on the city’s south side on a report of a man shot in the head.  That scene is near Madison Avenue and East Thompson Road.
31-year-old Bradley R. Kelley was taken to Eskenazi Hospital in good condition.
Around 8:50 a.m. police and medics were called to the west side on a report of a person shot multiple times.
Police did not find anyone in the 600 block of Auburn Street.  According to investigators, that is where the shooting occurred but the victim then drove himself to the 5000 block of West Washington Street where police located him.
Police say the victim was shot at least twice in the hip area.  He was taken to Eskenazi Hospital.
Investigators searched the area but were unable to locate a suspect.



Filed in: News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



PHOTOS: Areas of central Indiana flooded after overnight storms



Heavy flooding and water rescues Sunday morning



Police arrest driver in motorcycle crash that killed a passenger



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Morgan County residents clean up after flash flooding overtakes homes and creates a muddy mess



Closing arguments to begin Monday morning in Richmond Hill Trial



New Mexico Amber Alert teen found safe in Indianapolis, suspect in custody



Tornado rips through Johnson County; damage repairs underway





 












Crimetracker News

Four people dead after 11 shootings over 3 days across Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Nine people shot in in two days as violent Memorial Day carries into Tuesday


News

Police search for suspects after man shot while mowing lawn on east side


News

Police investigating double shooting on far east side


News

Police identify elderly couple seriously hurt after attack in house on Indianapolis’ west side



 


News

Two people shot outside strip club on Indy’s near west side


News

Police investigating drive-by shooting that killed one man, injured 3 others


Crimetracker News

Victim takes suspect’s gun in early morning shooting


Crimetracker News

Man in serious condition after shooting on near west side of Indianapolis


News

Police: Robbery motive in northeast side shooting



 


News

Police in Lawrence investigating after person shot


News

Police search for suspect who shot man on the far east side of Indianapolis


Crimetracker News

Homeowner, suspect shot in two incidents on northwest side






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















