GoFundMe page for sister of accused Charleston church shooter taken down | myfox8.com 
GoFundMe page for sister of accused Charleston church shooter taken down | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX8 News Replay 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 88°





Mon


					69°  90°
					


Tue


					70°  91°
					


Wed


					72°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







GoFundMe page for sister of accused Charleston church shooter taken down

Posted 5:04 pm, July 2, 2015, by Web Staff 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





SHELBY, N.C. — A GoFundMe page for the sister of the man accused of killing nine people at a Charleston church was taken down Thursday.
According to WCIV, Amber Roof was asking for help recovering expenses from her wedding that was delayed.
Roof was set to get married the weekend after the June 17 shooting at Emanuel AME in Charleston but was forced to postpone the wedding after her brother Dylann Roof was implicated in the shooting.
“June 21st was suppose (sic) to be the happiest day of our lives. It is the day every girl dreams of, it was the day we dreamed of.  We had each other, we have the perfect venue, and we had our vows ready to be read,” she wrote on GoFundMe.
The fund, as of 11:30 a.m. Thursday, had just over $1,500 contributed. As of 1:30 p.m., the fundraiser was taken down.
Roof played a key role in her brother’s arrest. She was the one who notified officials after seeing the photo of Dylann on television that was circulated by law enforcement officials.
Dylann Roof was later arrested by police during a traffic stop after being followed for 30 miles by a North Carolina florist who said she spotted the suspect driving next to her.

35.292351
-81.535646




Filed in: News Topics: Charleston, Dylann Roof 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



2 killed, 2 injured in wrong-way wreck in Winston-Salem; speed, alcohol suspected



City in the Carolinas named second best city in the world



What is this ‘mysterious sea creature’ that washed ashore?



Dolphin bitten by shark washes ashore at North Carolina beach







 


Latest News



About 2,000 protesters expected for Moral Monday event in Winston-Salem



Video shows shark at NC beach; woman says several were swimming under pier



Winston-Salem State football player saves teen from burning vehicle



Tyson investigating claims of animal abuse at chicken farms





 












News

Wedding canceled, sister of accused Charleston shooter asks for donations


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

FBI says Dylann Roof should not have been cleared to purchase a weapon



 


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect



 


News

Charleston victim funerals begin, as Confederate flag falls in other states


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Charleston church shooting suspect hears victims’ kin say, ‘I forgive you’






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,550 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















