Two in custody following shooting, police chase | FOX2now.com 
Two in custody following shooting, police chase | FOX2now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: FOX 2 News 

FOX 2 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX2now.com

 Menu

News
Links
AM Show
Sports
Traffic
Contests
STLMoms
Events







Weather 

82°







82°


Low 76°
High 95°





Mon


					76°  96°
					


Tue


					77°  93°
					


Wed


					75°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Two in custody following shooting, police chase

Posted 6:49 pm, April 9, 2015, by Kevin S. Held, Updated at 10:44pm, April 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestLinkedInEmail 





ST. LOUIS COUNTY, MO (KTVI) Two people are in custody late Thursday afternoon following a police pursuit from Jefferson County into south St. Louis County.
The chase began around 4:30 p.m., when a homeowner discovered a broken window after coming back home. The homeowner called over a neighbor and the two entered the house to investigate. The two found a burglar inside, who shot at them and ran off.
The burglary suspect got into a red Volkswagen with another person and drove away, but the homeowner was able to provide police with a description of the suspect and vehicle.
A short time later, the burglary suspect is said to have stopped at a home on 4 Ridge Road off of Highway 21. The suspects shot a man in the shoulder and then sped off. It is unclear exactly why the shooting occurred.
Jefferson County sheriff’s deputies stopped the Volkswagen on Old Highway 21 at Rhonda Sue Road. When one of the deputies got out of their vehicle, the suspects drove off.
Authorities chased the suspects into the Brookshire Trailer Park. The suspects shot out the rear window of their own vehicle to fire at law enforcement.
The chase continued along Highway 21 to Mattis Road. The suspects eventually crashed near the South Summit Apartments at Mattis and Lemay Ferry Road.
Both men were arrested.



Filed in: News Topics: Crime, police chase 













 






Events Calendar
See what’s happening  in your neighborhood.







 

 


Popular



Teen suspect shot three times by St. Louis police officer



Michael Brown exhibit opened in Chicago



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Driver hits 4 women in dramatic East St. Louis hit-and-run caught on video







 


Latest News



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part2



PICTURES: Slide the City St Louis 2015 part1



Contestants cry foul, attendees go hungry at Budweiser burger fest



Jefferson County resident apply for disaster assistance from recent flooding and storms





 












News

Pair charged in Jefferson County shooting, police chase


News

SUV slams into Ferguson home after police chase


News

Jefferson County man uses tractor to capture vehicle thief


News

Man shot in chest after argument, suspect claims victim was armed


News

County police investigating second homicide in 24 hours



 


News

Trio arrested for Florissant burglary, vehicle theft


News

Police: Suspects exchange gunfire from vehicles on I-44 near Jefferson


News

St. Charles carjacking leads to police chase ending in crash


News

Suspect in custody after four hour stand-off in Fergsuon


News

Video released of suspect in fatal shooting in downtown St. Louis



 


News

Estranged husband kills wife’s boyfriend, himself in Jefferson County


News

St. Louis man charged in Belleville armed robbery


News

Man in custody after firing gunshots while driving down Manchester Road






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2250 Ball Drive St. Louis MO 63146  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTVI		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















