2 Police Officers Shot Dead in Mississippi; Suspects in Custody | FOX40 
2 Police Officers Shot Dead in Mississippi; Suspects in Custody | FOX40






GoSearch








FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 60°
High 87°





Mon


					59°  92°
					


Tue


					60°  91°
					


Wed


					65°  98°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







2 Police Officers Shot Dead in Mississippi; Suspects in Custody

Posted 6:11 AM, May 10, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


HATTIESBURG, Mississippi (CNN)-
Two police officers were shot dead in Mississippi late Saturday. It was the first time in 30 years that an officer was killed in the line of duty in Hattiesburg, the mayor said.
Officers Benjamin J. Deen, 34, and Liquori Tate, 24, were making a traffic stop when they were shot, Mayor Johnny DuPree said.
They were taken to a hospital, but did not survive.
“The men and women who go out every day to protect us, the men and women who go out every day to make sure that we are safe, were turned on tonight,” DuPree said.
Police have apprehended two suspects, Marvin Banks and Curtis Banks, he said.
After the shooting, the suspects stole a police vehicle, which they used to flee. It was later found abandoned, according to CNN affiliate WDAM. The two men both have criminal records.
Police also took a woman into custody who was with the suspects at the time of the shooting, WDAM reported. They have not said whether she was involved. DuPree told CNN a third suspect was taken into custody, but did not disclose the gender.
Deen was named the city’s officer of the year in 2012, according to The Clarion-Ledger in Jackson, Mississippi. Tate had recently graduated from the police academy.
Deen leaves behind a wife and two children. Tate was not married and had no children, DuPree said.
After visiting the crime scene, the mayor went to the hospital, where he tended to family members until early Sunday.
“You have to search for words you say to family members how much we love them; we are here to support them,” he said. The city is making grief counselors available to the slain men’s fellow officers.
DuPree vowed that the perpetrators of the attack would face justice.
Police in Oxford, Mississippi, sent out condolences in a tweet.
“Both Hattiesburg Police Officers have died. Terrible. Prayers to the entire community and families,” it read.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News 













 






Circle FOX40 on G+!
Join the conversation by circling FOX40 on Google+







 

 


Popular



1 Dead, 2 Hurt in Shooting at North Sacramento Party



Father of Missing Shasta County Baby on the Run



Inmate Was Cut Nearly in Two, Organs Missing



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt







 


Latest News



1 Dead, 2 Hospitalized in Apparent GHB Overdose in LA



Boy, 12, Rescued After Fall Down Slope During Hike



54 Stingrays Die at Chicago Zoo



Firefighting Planes Briefly Grounded by Drone Over Wildfire





 












National and World News

Escapee David Sweat Shot, in Custody


National and World News

Woman Says Charleston Shooter Spared Her to ‘Tell Everyone’ What Happened


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


National and World News News

Cincinnati Man Calls 911 On Self, Kills Responding Officer


National and World News

Judge Says of Dallas Suspect: ‘I Knew He Was Going to do Something’



 


National and World News

Police: Five People Found Dead Inside Phoenix Home


Local News

Suspect Killed in Officer-Involved Shooting in Stockton


National and World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


National and World News News

Dallas Police HQ Attack: Suspect Believed Killed During Standoff


National and World News

Security Guard Killed During Shooting at U.S. Census Bureau



 


National and World News

New Audio Captures Officer ‘Laughing’ after Deadly South Carolina Shooting


Local News

Car Dealership Shooting Investigated as Suicide


National and World News

Explosives Found, Suspect Cornered after Gunfire Targets Dallas Police HQ






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















