Police find hundreds of weapons stashed at biker shooting scene | fox13now.com 
Police find hundreds of weapons stashed at biker shooting scene | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: Sports Page 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events







Weather 

81°







81°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					67°  91°
					


Tue


					66°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 










 







Police find hundreds of weapons stashed at biker shooting scene

Posted 6:17 pm, May 20, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (5 images)





Inline


 



By Kyung Lah, Catherine E. Shoichet and Holly Yan

CNN


WACO, Texas (CNN) — Three days after bikers turned a Texas parking lot into a battlefield, workers washed blood off the pavement Wednesday as police prepared to leave the scene of carnage.
What happens next is anyone’s guess.
Will rival motorcycle clubs peacefully mourn the nine bikers killed in Sunday’s shootout at a Twin Peaks restaurant? Or will there be more violence, either against police or against other bikers in retaliation?
Waco police Sgt. W. Patrick Swanton said more trouble may come.
“Is this over? Most likely not,” he said Tuesday.
So far, investigators combing the crime scene have found hundreds of weapons, and they expect the numbers will go up.
It’s clear, Swanton said, that bikers scrambled to stash their weapons as law enforcement closed in.
Police have spotted weapons inside sacks of tortilla chips, stuffed between bags of flour, hidden on shelves, tucked away inside kitchen stoves and tossed on the floor inside the restaurant.
One person, he said, apparently tried to flush a handgun down the toilet. Inside a vehicle in the parking lot, investigators found an AK-47 and body armor.
“These were vicious criminals that knew that they were in trouble,” he said, “and they were trying to dispose of evidence.”
But now there are signs that many of the bikers want peace. The Cossacks Motorcycle Club, one of the groups at Sunday’s melee, has agreed to cancel its 14th annual Mingus Blowout party, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported.
The event was scheduled for this weekend in Palo Pinto County, about 100 miles (161 kilometers) northwest of Waco.
“We never had a problem before,” Palo Pinto County Sheriff Ira Mercer told the Star-Telegram. “But in light of Waco, I don’t think it’s safe right now.”
How it all started
With seven bikers still hospitalized and 170 suspects in custody, authorities have a complex investigation on their hands.
The key question they’re facing: Who was responsible for killing nine people in the deadly brawl?
Investigators, McLennan County Sheriff Parnell McNamara said, are “doing everything we can to get to the bottom of this and find out exactly who these shooters were.”
“We are up to the task. … We have the facility, we have the manpower, we have the willpower. We will hold these (suspects) and we will do our best to keep peace in our community here,” he said.
More details are starting to emerge as to what exactly happened Sunday.
Swanton said a coalition of motorcycle groups had reserved the outdoor bar area at Twin Peaks when “an additional biker gang” showed up, uninvited.
A quarrel in the parking lot soon followed, Swanton said, and it may have involved a tiff over a parking spot or someone having his foot run over.
The arrest warrants for some suspects offered even more details: Members of the Cossacks were in the Twin Peaks parking lot when members of the rival Bandidos biker gang arrived.
But the ruckus didn’t stop there. Swanton said there were “crime scenes inside and outside” the restaurant, including in the bathroom, dining area and around the bar.
The assailants used all sorts of weapons — brass knuckles, guns, knives and chains. And when police responded, Swanton said, some bikers turned their weapons on them.
Who was involved?
The nine men killed in the shootout ranged in age from 27 to 65, the Southwestern Institute of Forensic Sciences said. Some of them were fathers. All of them died of gunshot wounds.
Families went through harrowing hours where they tried to find their loved ones and weren’t sure whether they’d survived, said Rocki Hughes, whose ex-husband, Jacob Lee Rhyne, was among those killed.
“We didn’t find out and it wasn’t confirmed until my kids had already seen pictures of their dad dead on the tailgate of a truck,” she said. They recognized him, she said, because of his large beard and the tattoos of his children’s names on his forearms.
Rhyne, 39, had been a member of the Cossacks for about six months. He went to the restaurant to make peace with the Bandidos, Hughes said.
Portraying all of the bikers as violent, she said, simply isn’t fair.
“He didn’t believe in guns,” she said. “He got in many fights throughout his years, but he never needed a gun to protect himself.”
So why did he join the Cossacks?
“To be a part of something, I guess,” Hughes told CNN. “That’s a question I’m still asking. … Our kids are broken up. He was an awesome father, and just as good as a friend, and I don’t understand it either.”
As for the 170 people locked up in the McLennan County Jail, each has $1 million bail on charges of engaging in organized crime. Police said some might later have capital murder charges filed against them.
There’s a retired cop among them; former San Antonio Police Detective Marty Lewis. There’s also a pharmacy tech, 65-year-old Lawrence Yager. His license has expired, perhaps due to retirement. He has no criminal history.
But don’t be fooled, Swanton said; the bikers at Twin Peaks over the weekend knew they were up to no good.
“What was in that restaurant Sunday afternoon,” he said, “is not a motorcycle club of doctors, lawyers, laymen, honest, law-abiding citizens.”
Sandra Lynch, aka “Drama,” was among those arrested. A member of the Los Pirados motorcycle club, she’s married to Michael Lynch, who also was arrested.
They’re grandparents who shared a love for biking — and Twin Peaks.
Their son told CNN they’re not criminals or gang members. They were at the restaurant for a monthly meeting, nothing more.
“Everyone there is not a thug. My parents are not thugs,” he said. “I think this is injustice to have so many people in jail.” He would not give his name, saying he feared police retribution.
None of the defendants have had their day in court yet. Some of their families, reached by CNN, say the high bail is ridiculous and unfair.


CNN’s Kyung Lah reported from Waco. CNN’s Catherine E. Shoichet and Holly Yan reported from Atlanta. CNN’s Greg Botelho, Dave Alsup, Sara Sidner, Nick Valencia, Dana Ford, Eliott C. McLaughlin, AnneClaire Stapleton, Alison Kosik and Evan Perez contributed to this report.




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: biker gang, shooting, shootout, waco 








			10 comments		




 

One paying too much tax

Let them all go! The cops should not lock up anyone based on cops stereotyping. Just because they are bikers does not make them bad people. Should we say since there has been a cop that molested a child that all cops are child molesters? Fair is fair!!




							May 20, 2015 at 7:06 pm						








 

ANOTHERBOB

These animals managed to take 9 of themselves offline permanently.  Being a biker doesn’t make you bad but killing fellow bikers makes them murderers.




							May 22, 2015 at 6:07 am						










 

The Yakima Kid

It seems that they found brass knuckles and knives stuffed into the gaps in the upholstery.




							May 20, 2015 at 9:30 pm						








 

Mike

all the killing was done by the cops




							May 21, 2015 at 9:19 am						








 

Bob

They shouldn’t be released, they should be shot.




							May 21, 2015 at 9:37 am						








 

laker66641010

for what, exactly?




							May 21, 2015 at 5:00 pm						








 

ANOTHERBOB

Texas executes murderers, and hopefully those responsible will find that out the hard way.




							May 22, 2015 at 6:04 am						








 

Mike

well, so far the cops are the only ones that have been linked to killing anybody, so does that apply to them?




							May 22, 2015 at 2:45 pm						












 

ANOTHERBOB

These mental deficients succeeded in eliminating 9 of themselves.  Decent society will not mourn their passing.




							May 22, 2015 at 6:01 am						








 

laker66641010

clearly you’re not including yourself as a part of “decent society”, right? As you’re one of the biggest asshats  i’ve had the displeasure of ever coming across on the internet.




							May 22, 2015 at 2:47 pm						








Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid



Child abuse charges re-filed after disturbing photos go viral on Facebook



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

9 dead, nearly 20 injured after shooting among rival biker gangs in Waco, Texas


News

Dallas police HQ shooting: Suspect killed during standoff


News

Suspect in New Orleans cop killing had access to guns in patrol car, police say


News

Police: Cincinnati man calls 911 on self, kills responding officer


News

Police host safety event, say accidents involving bikers spike when weather warms up



 


News

Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.


News

New Orleans police officer killed after prisoner escapes handcuffs, grabs weapon; manhunt underway


News

Man charged with shooting into George Zimmerman’s truck, Florida police say


News

New Jersey man accused of killing 7 people in 2 states


News

After Texas flood, cyclist finds unearthed casket



 


News

Baltimore mayor lifts citywide curfew


News

Suspect dead after man with concealed carry permit intervenes in alleged carjacking in Orem


News

LAPD chief concerned if officer’s fatal shooting of unarmed man was ‘justified’






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts










































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,102 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















