Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery | fox13now.com 
Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police release photos of suspect in credit union robbery

Posted 8:44 pm, April 29, 2015, by Mark Green 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 



Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (3 images)





 


TAYLORSVILLE, Utah – Police have released images of a man suspected in a robbery at a credit union in Taylorsville Wednesday, and they are asking the public for help identifying and locating the man.
According to a press release from the Unified Police Department, the suspect entered the Hercules Credit Union, 3141 West 4700 South, around 4 p.m. and approached the teller.
The suspect gave the teller a note demanding money, and the suspect fled after the teller complied. There were no injuries reported and the suspect did not display or claim to have any weapons during the robbery.
The man fled on foot with an undisclosed amount of money and police searched the area but were unable to locate him.
The suspect, pictured above, is described as a Hispanic man who stands 5-feet 6-inches tall and weighs 200 pounds. He was last seen wearing a black wig and a bandana style hat as well as a long-sleeve, button-up shirt that was black and white.
Anyone with information about the man or the alleged robbery is asked to call the Unified Police Department at 385-468-9813.



Filed in: News Topics: bank robbery, credit union, Unified Police Department 








			1 Comment		




 

freewilltwo

the teller just gave him the money, he has no weapon and she complies…can ya honestly say he stole it?




							April 29, 2015 at 8:57 pm						






Comments are closed.






 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Suspect in West Jordan credit union robbery turns himself in, police say


News

Pleasant Grove police arrest second suspect in alleged bank robbery


News

Police searching for bald bank bandit in hairy heist


News

Police hope public can identify bandit in black after bank robbery


News

Police looking for suspects in armed robbery at Taylorsville Family Dollar store



 


News

Police seek public’s help in finding gas station robbery suspect


News

Police seek public’s help in locating suspect in RadioShack robbery


News

Sole suspect flees on foot after armed robbery at shoe store


News

Police seek public’s help in finding bank robbery suspect


News

South Salt Lake Police seek public’s help in locating suspected bank robber



 


News

Unified Police: Man, 18, stabbed brother, 36, over money


News

Man swaps old shoes for new pair then hits, injures employee while escaping in vehicle


News

Police seek public’s help in locating suspect in SLC bank robbery






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















