Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding | fox13now.com 
Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding

Posted 9:17 pm, April 8, 2015, by Caroline Connolly, Updated at 06:54am, April 9, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





SOUTH JORDAN, Utah — After a burglary at their home, a Daybreak couple helped police nab one of three suspects using an app on their iPhone.
Just after 4:00 a.m., a resident along Bowstring Way was getting ready for work when he heard a loud crash inside his home. When he went to investigate, he discovered the front door had been kicked in and some of his personal belongings were missing.
“We realize that at that time the person, the burglar, was actually in the office still, and it was a very scary thought,” said the homeowner, who asked FOX 13 News to not release his identity.
When South Jordan Police arrived, the suspects were no longer in the house, but they were not far.
“They encountered a vehicle that looked out of place,” said Officer Sam Winkler of the South Jordan Police Department. “When they talked with the female inside, they determined she was involved with this incident. With assistance of West Jordan K9, they tracked down the second suspect only three to four houses away.”
They arrested Ruby Jo Hernandez, 23, and Bremcy Salazar, 19, soon after.
However, they needed the help of the residents to find their third suspect. The homeowner’s wife logged into the ‘Find My Phone’ app through her iPad. The system was able to ping her phone to location that was only a couple of houses away.
“I was thinking the burglar just tossed it, but turns out he actually had it on his person,” said the homeowner. “I think if we wouldn’t have known the phone was in the area, the individual may have been able to stay in that location until everybody cleared out and then walked away.”
According to police, they found Catarino Gambino, 26, hiding in a window well with the phone in hand.
The suspects are facing charges for the alleged burglary as well as possession of meth and marijuana.



Filed in: News Topics: burglary, find my phone, south jordan police department 













 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan


News

Man with concealed carry permit foils car burglary attempt in West Jordan


News

2 arrested in South Jordan after break-in at Zumiez, police say


News

Man in custody after taking ex-girlfriend, her current boyfriend on wild ride in disputed vehicle



 


News

‘Polygamous ninja’ Raven Blackwing sentenced to prison after break-in, sword fight


News

Final suspect in violent smoke shop robbery turns self in, police thank public for tips


News

Intoxicated man arrested for allegedly breaking into WVC home, sexually assaulting woman inside


News

Two in custody, two outstanding, one injured after neighbors intervene in home burglary


News

Police: Suspects break smoke shop employee’s face with rock, rob store



 


News

Police: Two in custody, one on run after smoke shop employee hit with rock


News

Missing driver from South Jordan rollover found hiding in trunk of realtor’s vehicle, police say


News

Neighbor who dialed 911 speaks after suspect fatally shot by police responding to child abuse call






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















