Police ID man found dead along I-15 in South Jordan, investigating how he died | fox13now.com 
Police ID man found dead along I-15 in South Jordan, investigating how he died | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

77°







77°


Low 68°
High 90°





Mon


					66°  91°
					


Tue


					67°  90°
					


Wed


					66°  87°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police ID man found dead along I-15 in South Jordan, investigating how he died

Posted 9:59 am, May 19, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and Tiffany DeMasters, Updated at 05:11pm, May 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 





SOUTH JORDAN, Utah – Officials have identified a man found along the road in South Jordan after getting numerous calls Tuesday morning.
Police say passersby called about a Caucasian man on the ground next to Interstate 15 near 10600 South at about 8 a.m. The man, identified as Flint J. Brown, 56, of South Jordan, was found facedown next to a chain-link fence, about 15 feet off the roadway.
South Jordan police detectives and the Utah State Medical Examiner’s Office responded to the scene.
“They determined Mr. Brown was wearing clothing appropriate for the time of year and did not have any visible signs of trauma to his body,” South Jordan police say.
Brown was last seek wandering the area near a hotel west of I-15 at about 11:30 p.m.
The death is considered suspicious.
No further details will be available until an autopsy and investigation is completed.  Police say they do not anticipate information from the autopsy to be available for several weeks.
Anyone with information related to this case is asked to call South Jordan police at 801-840-4000.

40.562170
-111.929658




Filed in: News Topics: south jordan 













 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Driver in rollover that injured 2, closed lanes of I-80 booked for DUI



Snow in July!? Fluffy white stuff makes unusual summer appearance in Utah



‘The ropes are looking a little frayed’ – Elastic cables on slingshot ride snap



Woman reveals comment allegedly from ‘Subway Guy’ Jared Fogle that led to raid







 


Latest News



Miss Oklahoma Olivia Jordan wins Miss USA 2015 title



National convention held in SLC, LULAC discusses ways to advocate for Latino youth



Researchers ask public for help tracking firefly sightings in Utah



Reality show on FOX 13 to feature local teens with culinary chops competing for scholarship





 












News

Missing driver from South Jordan rollover found hiding in trunk of realtor’s vehicle, police say


News

Police seek driver who fled scene after truck rolled into backyard in South Jordan


News

Body of man found near Jordan River in Salt Lake identified


News

UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore


News

South Jordan couple finds burglars in home, 3 suspects in custody



 


News

Man sues West Jordan police over injuries suffered in K9 encounter


News

Burglary victim uses smart phone app to help South Jordan police catch suspect who was hiding


News

Standoff resolved peacefully after man allegedly fires shot, threatens cops in South Jordan


News

Police: Suspects break smoke shop employee’s face with rock, rob store


News

Suspect caught on camera stealing $2,000 of packages from Utah home in broad daylight



 


News

Officers questioning man in suspicious death after body found on bank of Jordan River


News

Mom with 4 unbuckled kids in car arrested for DUI after passing out, hitting trees during paper route


News

Police chase through several Salt Lake County cities ends in arrests






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,104 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















