World Animal Protection - Animals in Disasters Blog - Update: Typhoon Hagupit, disaster response team on the way to help animals
World Animal Protection - Animals in Disasters Blog - Update: Typhoon Hagupit, disaster response team on the way to help animals










World Animal Protection - Animals in Disasters Blog







Home
About disaster management
The Disaster Response Team
About World Animal Protection
ARCH members
Subscribe
Archives










« Update: assisting evacuations, ready to deploy: Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) |
	Main
	| Racing to help communities devastated by volcanic eruptions in Cabo Verde »








Update: Typhoon Hagupit, disaster response team on the way to help animals


A lucky survivor amidst a typhoon ravaged landscape. Animals are often forgotten victims of disasters. Where the need is greatest, we will be there. ©World Animal Protection/Ezra Acayan 2014
Our Bangkok-based disaster response team is headed to the Philippines to assess the impact and animal needs following Typhoon Hagupit lashing the Philippines over the weekend.
We'll be working with local governments and veterinary associations to determine what the needs are and how best we can help. Our initial efforts will be centred in Albay, Legazspi and Masbate. I'll keep you updated as we learn more. I just wanted to let you know that thanks to your support, we will be there helping the animals and people who depend on them.





Posted by Scott Cantin on 12/10/2014 at 05:14 PM | Permalink




 | Digg This
 | Save to del.icio.us
 | 
Tweet This!
 | 








Comments


Update: Typhoon Hagupit, disaster response team on the way to help animals
A lucky survivor amidst a typhoon ravaged landscape. Animals are often forgotten victims of disasters. Where the need is greatest, we will be there. ©World Animal Protection/Ezra Acayan 2014
Our Bangkok-based disaster response team is headed to the Philippines to assess the impact and animal needs following Typhoon Hagupit lashing the Philippines over the weekend.
We'll be working with local governments and veterinary associations to determine what the needs are and how best we can help. Our initial efforts will be centred in Albay, Legazspi and Masbate. I'll keep you updated as we learn more. I just wanted to let you know that thanks to your support, we will be there helping the animals and people who depend on them.



View the entire comment thread.
Please enable JavaScript if you would like to comment on this blog.









Donate Now







Share on Facebook


Share




Share on Twitter


Tweet




Archives


December 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
March 2014
February 2014
December 2013




Categories


Animal Welfare
Animals in Disasters
Current Affairs
Disasters
Travel
Web/Tech
Weblogs







 





Powered by TypePad






























