Typhoon Hagupit lashes Philippines - CNN.com
Typhoon Hagupit lashes Philippines - CNN.com


















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











Thousands evacuate as Typhoon Hagupit lashes Philippines



By Ralph Ellis and Melissa Gray, CNN
updated 1:14 AM EST, Sun December 7, 2014











People seek refuge inside a temporary evacuation center in Quezon City, Philippines, on Tuesday, December 9. Typhoon Hagupit tore apart homes and sent waves crashing through coastal communities across the eastern Philippines.




Residents try to salvage materials from destroyed houses in San Julian, Philippines, on December 9.




A Philippine air force cargo plane unloads tons of relief supplies in Borongan, Philippines, on December 9.




A man collects water near a damaged home in Dolores, Philippines, on Monday, December 8.




Philippine navy personnel pack rice packages at a government distribution center in Manila, Philippines, on December 8.




Evacuees line up for food at an evacuation center in Manila on December 8.




Boys salvage items as they return to their homes in Legazpi, Philippines, December 8.




A man walks through heavy rain in San Juan, Philippines, on December 8.




A man wades through a flooded rice field in Albay province of the Philippines on December 8.




A man carries a dirty plastic sheet from his house in Legazpi on December 8.




Manila residents evacuate December 8 to safer ground after the local government ordered pre-emptive evacuation in anticipation of Hagupit.




People check their damaged home in Legazpi on December 8.




Children play on an overturned boat at the port area of Manila on Sunday, December 7.




Strong waves crash into coastal houses in Legazpi on December 7.




Strong winds and rain push a man around on the shore in Legazpi on December 7.




Residents head for an evacuation center on December 7 as strong winds and rains hit Legazpi.




Strong winds and rain pound the seawall in Legazpi on December 7.




A man holds on as strong winds from Typhoon Hagupit hit Legazpi on December 7.




Residents take shelter in an unfinished building hours before Hagupit passes near Legazpi on December 7.




A mother watches her baby inside a mosquito net at an evacuation center in Manila on December 7.




Workers reinforce the roof of a house in Manila on December 7.




A man walks under a fallen utility pole in Tacloban, Philippines, on December 7. 




Typhoon Hagupit whips up waves in Legazpi on December 7.




Motorists pass toppled utility poles in Camalig, Philippines, on December 7. 




Volunteers repack relief goods in Manila on December 7.




A policeman carries a tree branch that fell due to strong wind in Legazpi on December 7.




A resident cycles down an empty street before Hagupit passes near Legazpi on December 7.




A girl walks along the shore as strong waves hit Atimonan, Philippines, on Saturday, December 6.




A boy watches as a wave hits the seawall on December 6 along the boulevard in Surigao City, Philippines.




Families sleep at a school used as an evacuation center on December 6 in Legazpi. 




Fishermen carry their outrigger to higher ground in Legazpi on Friday, December 5. More than 600,000 people had evacuated by Saturday morning, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council.




Meteorologists from the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration plot the direction of Hagupit on Thursday, December 4. 




HIDE CAPTION


Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines
Typhoon Hagupit hits Philippines



<<
<





1





2





3





4





5





6





7





8





9





10





11





12





13





14





15





16





17





18





19





20





21





22





23





24





25





26





27





28





29





30





31





32


>
>>






STORY HIGHLIGHTS


NEW: Threat of flooding rises as the typhoon moves slowly across country
Mayor of Tacloban says 48,000 people moved to shelters
About 40 million people are in the path 
Storm should be weaker by the time it reaches Manila on Monday











Affected by the storm? Send your photos to CNN iReport, but please stay safe
(CNN) -- A massive typhoon crept across central Philippines on Sunday, sending thousands of people into shelters and pouring heavy rain that heightened the risk of flooding and landslides.
Typhoon Hagupit -- its name means "lash" in Filipino -- moved west-northwest and targeted the city of Legazpi, just north of where the storm made landfall on Saturday.
CNN's Saima Mohsin, reporting from Legazpi on Sunday, said shelters were full as high winds and driving rain battered the city. One of the city's major fears is a storm surge that could reach 2-4 meters (6.5 to 13 feet).
With memories of last year's devastating super typhoon fresh in their minds, more than 600,000 people had evacuated by Saturday morning, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. About 40 million people are in the path of the storm's winds.


Super Typhoon Hagupit






Typhoon Hagupit drenches Philippines





Typhoon Hagupit hits the Philippines





Typhoon Hagupit's projected path





Families urged to seek shelter from typhoon

Gen. Gregorio Catapang, chief of staff of armed forces, said at a Sunday press conference that soldiers were working to clear roads and airports so that emergency services could be delivered.
Eleven nations had offered assistance, including the Australia, the United States, China, Japan and the United Kingdom.
CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam said that the storm is actually breaking up over the land mass of the Philippines, but will continue to pour heavy rain. He said 395 mm (15.5 inches) of rain were reported in Bororgan in 24 hours.
Hagupit is moving slowly on its west-northwest track, at 15 kph (9.3 mph). At that rate, it will take about three days for the storm to travel past the capital, Manila, dumping extreme amounts of rainfall -- more than a foot in some places -- as it goes.
Expected to lose some punch by Manila
Hagupit should be significantly weaker by the time it reaches Manila, but winds will still be higher than 100 kph (60 mph). The biggest threat in the capital will come from the heavy rainfall.
That will lead to flash flooding and mudslides, even in places far away from the storm's center.
Despite the threats of danger, a CNN crew in Legazpi saw many residents who were ignoring evacuation orders and vowing to stay in their makeshift beachside homes.
"I think we can handle the situation. If or when it gets worse, we'll go to the evacuation center," one man said.
"We've been here 25 years and seen many typhoons," said a woman at the coast. "This one already feels stronger than Typhoon Haiyan, but we won't leave yet."
The typhoon came ashore on eastern Samar Island just before 10 p.m. (9 a.m. ET) with winds of 205 kph (127 mph) -- the equivalent of a Category 3 hurricane.
Town ravaged last year escapes major damage
One city farther south breathed a sigh of relief on Sunday.
In Tacloban, the streets were empty because residents had already evacuated. Last year, super typhoon Haiyan devastated Tacloban, killing more than 6,000 people and making around 200,000 people homeless.
Mayor Alfred Romualdez told CNN the city is without power but he's seen only minor damage with broken windows and trees down. Many roads were flooded, but not impassable.
About 48,000 people have moved to evacuation centers, he said; there have been no casualties.
CNN's Asia-Pacific editor Andrew Stephens, reporting from Tacloban, said there was no storm surge. "The main emotion here is one of relief," he said.
Fishermen fears typhoon will "destroy everything"
"There was a lot of preparation," Orla Fagan, spokeswoman for the United Nations humanitarian agency OCHA, told CNN. "I think that the lessons learned were very hard ones in Tacloban ... because there were so many lives lost, and I think they've really taken cognizance this time and really made an all-out effort everywhere to bring people to safety."
Philippines gets more than its share of disasters

CNN's Madison Park and CNN meteorologist Brandon Miller contributed to this report.





















































Part of complete coverage on 
Typhoon Hagupit


CNN storm tracker





Get the latest satellite images and data as CNN tracks Typhoon Hagupit.



CNN reporters in storm

updated 9:01 PM EST, Sat December 6, 2014




CNN reporters Saima Mohsin and Andrew Stevens report from Legapzi and Tacloban amid heavy rain, wind.



Typhoon Hagupit's projected path

updated 8:58 PM EST, Sat December 6, 2014




CNN Meteorologist Tom Sater tracks the path of Typhoon Hagupit as it drenches the Philippines.



Typhoon moving slowly west

updated 1:14 AM EST, Sun December 7, 2014




The typhoon sends thousands of people into shelters amid pouring rain that heightens the risk of flooding and landslides.



Philippines gets lots of disasters

updated 9:10 PM EST, Fri December 5, 2014




Powered by ferocious winds, Typhoon Hagupit is whipping towards central Philippines and could affect the same area hit by the deadly Typhoon Haiyan just 13 months ago.



Tacloban braces for Hagupit

updated 7:57 PM EST, Thu December 4, 2014




A year after Haiyan ravaged Tacloban, its residents again prepare for a huge storm. CNN affiliate 9TV reports.



Year's worst storm moves in

updated 5:53 PM EST, Thu December 4, 2014




Typhoon Hagupit is bearing down on the Philippines. Meteorologist Tom Sater looks at where it might make landfall.



Typhoon Haiyan: A survivor's story

updated 10:58 AM EST, Fri November 7, 2014




Filmmaker and Philippine native Jeff Manibay shares his personal story of surviving Typhoon Haiyan.



What made Haiyan so powerful

updated 7:37 PM EST, Thu November 6, 2014




Meteorologist Tom Sater looks back at the chaos brought by Typhoon Haiyan one year after it devastated the Philippines.



Panorama shows Haiyan wreckage

updated 8:12 PM EST, Tue November 19, 2013




A dozen body bags line the street in Tacloban -- one of the towns hardest hit by Super Typhoon Haiyan -- as locals walk through the destruction of what used to be their homes.



'The Filipino spirit is alive among us'

updated 5:02 AM EST, Tue November 19, 2013




CNN's Airmie Jarin-Bennett, an expat Filipino, returned to her native land after Typhoon Haiyan. Nothing prepared her for what she found there.



Drone view of Haiyan's devastation 

updated 8:49 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




Karl Penhaul reports from the middle of the Tacloban devastation using a drone camera to get a bird's eye view. 



Interactive: Haiyan's path of disaster

updated 12:33 AM EST, Fri November 15, 2013




Explore stories from typhoon survivors, relief workers, and officials from eight regions across the Philippines.



Video shows moment typhoon hit 

updated 2:45 PM EST, Sun November 17, 2013




This video shows how strong the storm surge was during Super Typhoon Haiyan. 



Photos: Typhoon Haiyan

updated 6:54 PM EST, Wed November 27, 2013




The storm affected 4.3 million people in 36 provinces and displaced more than 340,000. 


 

















   
     











