FARK.com: FarkIt Link Submission 
FARK.com: FarkIt Link Submission   
 Do you have adblock enabled?






        Real news. Real funny.
     
    Report

 It's Not News, It's Fark   
 


 How To Fark Log In  |  Sign Up »



Login



Password






Forgot password?


X



   
 



 

Fark
TotalFark
myFark
About/FArQ Contests Store
Contact Us
Mobile



Search:




   
 

 




Password



Login


 Turn on javascript (or enable it for Fark) for a better user experience.



  
  
   




 

If you can read this, either the style sheet didn't load or you have an older browser that doesn't support 
style sheets. Try clearing your browser cache and refreshing the page.






Main
Sports
Business
Geek
Entertainment
Politics
Video
FarkUs  


Thanks for submitting a link via FarkIt! To complete the link submission, you need to log into Fark.com.

If you already have a Fark.com username and password:
Enter them above and click "login" to proceed to the link submission page.

If you are new to Fark.com:
Please take a moment and create a free account.


Fark.com Top Ten Links (past 24 hours)
 
1


School sends note to parents attempting to shame them with request for signature. The parent's response is golden, and then it gets better

(175)
 
4


Sensational NASA photo proves once and for all, beyond all doubt, that life exists on Mars

(98)
 
17


State of Michigan: I don't care if the child is not yours. If you don't pay support, we'll throw you in jail

(387)
 
8


Fire captain removes naked photos of 8-year-old dead girl who died in the 1944 circus fire from the wall of his firehouse. And, shockingly, people have a problem with this

(85)
 
20


On the one hand I'm cold and miserable, but on the other, I feel morally superior and get to look down at everyone else

(193)
 
10


TMZ catches John "Papa John" Schnatter eating someone else's pizza. Bonus: with a fork. OH THE HUMANITY

(134)
 
13


The best thing to happen to KY since jelly

(111)
 
11


Roanoke woman discovers the Catch-22 about parking in space 22

(49)
 
24


Occasionally, there is justice: dad of bullies loses his job for obvious reasons

(70)
 
15


Woman decides that since she's at a wildlife sanctuary, all the animal are domesticated, so it's okay to reach an arm into a cage and try to pet an animal. Even when that caged animal is a 400-pound black bear

(70)
 




 


Submit a Link » 
     Report
Advertise on Fark

   Like Fark!
+1 Fark!

 Follow @Fark

On Twitter


Follow Fark On Pinterest



 

Top Links
Top Comments
Top Submitters
Top Individual Comments
Press/Publicity
Top Sources/Topics


Headlines of the Week


All Latest
Fark Forum Link Voting
Sports Forum
Fark Blogs
Geek Forum
Fark Book
Entertainment Forum
Fark Travel Guide
Politics Forum
Fark Parties
Fark Party Forum
Fark Chat
Photoshop Forum
PS/Photo Browser
Farktography Forum
Fark Quiz

     Report
 
In Other Media

News from e-generator.net
 
Stories from our partner sites:

 THE FARK KNIGHT: Fark.com's Drew Curt... Matt Kemp - Sneak Peek President Obama Interviews YouTube St... Experts Claim ISIS Video of Japanese... More news at OraTV »
 
 The 10 Best Male Rappers of All Time 22 Jump Street's Lord and Miller Turn... NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio and Assorted... How New York Comedian Michael Che Wil... More news at Village Voice »
 
 Walt's Wild Men: LIFE Behind the Scen... Brando Takes Broadway: LIFE on the Se... Last Call: Prohibition and the Speake... 'It's a Wonderful Life': Rare Photos... More news at Life »
 
 





Links are submitted by members of the Fark community.



When community members submit a link, they also write a custom headline for the story.



Other Farkers comment on the links. This is the number of comments. Click here to read them.



You need to create an account to submit links or post comments.



Click here to submit a link.



 Also on Fark

 
Main
The 2nd most incredible invention ever turns 80 this weekend (the most incredible invention is what goes inside the 2nd most incredible invention). The article's headline gives instructions on how to celebrate, which, odds are, you've already done ( foxnews.com ) » (18 comments)
 
Sports
Bill Nye is a corporate shill who knows nothing about science according to anti-vaxxers, Creationists and now Patriots fans as Bill Nye proves Bill Belichick is completely full of hot air, unlike his balls ( screengrabber.deadspin.com ) » (33 comments)
 
Business
Hallmark sends its greetings to J.C. Penney ( click2houston.com ) » (6 comments)
 
Geek
Researchers trace PTSD back to veteran soldiers taking part in battle ... in Mesopotamia ( bbc.com ) » (13 comments)
 
Entertainment
American Sniper tops the box office, raking in $62 million. The Boy Next Door debuts at #2 with $15.3 million, horror film Paddington at #3 with $11.8 million. Johnny Depp shows he's box office poison as Mortdecai bombs at #8 with $4.6 million ( deadline.com ) » (8 comments)
 
Politics
Rand Paul was speaking off the cuff when he said that half the people receiving disability benefits just had sore backs or were merely anxious about work. And by "off" we mean "out of," and by "cuff"... well, I think you know what we mean ( washingtonpost.com ) » (107 comments)
 
Video
What can you make by using a pocket knife to put 10 small cuts in a piece of wood? If you're a master carver, a working set of pliers ( youtube.com ) » (8 comments)
 
FarkUs
The FA Cup 4th round weekend starts early with a Cambridge v Man Utd....wait. Manchester United are actually still in a cup competition? ( dailymail.co.uk ) » (270 comments)
 
 
Fark :: Main | Sports | Business | Geek | Entertainment | Politics | Video | FarkUs
Total Fark :: TotalFark | TF Discussion | All | Commented | Top Voted | Greenlit
FArQ :: About Us | Quick Answers | FarkIt | Posting Rules | Farkisms
Contests :: Photoshop | Farktography | VideoEdit | Caption
Buy Fark :: Fark Book | Fark Store
 Submit a Link »

        Copyright © 1999 - 2015 Fark, Inc | Last updated: Jan 25 2015 12:33:19
Contact Us  |  Report a bug/error msg  |  Advertise on Fark  |  Terms of service/legal/privacy policy
 Runtime: 0.045 sec (45 ms) 
 

 
 










    Report

 
