StormTracker - Met Office
StormTracker - Met Office









Search





Contact Us


Email alerts



Enter email address












Weather
Climate
Learning
Research
Products
News
Holiday weather
Get ready for winter




UK forecast
Severe weather warnings
Specialist forecasts
Last 24 hours
UK climate
World weather
Weather guide
Weather services 







No warning of rain


No warning of wind


Yellow warning of snow


No warning of ice


No warning of fog












            Your chosen location:
            
            City of London
        












JavaScript is not enabled on this browser

For the best viewing experience of this website, JavaScript should be enabled.
See our FAQ for instructions on how to enable JavaScript.
If you are unable to use JavaScript, then please try visiting our mobile site.

























StormTracker
What is StormTracker?

Share:
 
Share this page on Facebook
Share this page on Twitter
Share by email
Print



StormTracker



StormTracker provides a mapped picture of tropical cyclones (tropical storms, hurricanes, typhoons) around the globe. 
StormTracker provides access to the following:

Track history of all current tropical cyclones
Six-day forecast tracks for current tropical cyclones from the Met Office Unified Model
Latest observed cloud cover (infra-red and visible satellite) and sea surface temperature

StormTracker provides general guidance on current tropical cyclone activity and one possible forecast outcome. It should not be used on its own to formulate a definitive decision based on this one outcome occurring. No indication is given as to forecast uncertainty or other possible forecast outcomes. To understand the most likely outcome for life and limb or operational decisions please refer to the official warnings and guidance issued by regional warning centres:

Warnings and guidance

Active tropical cyclones can be selected from the drop down list above the map. Select the name to zoom in and see the observed and forecast tracks. Click on the globe symbol in the top left to zoom out to a global view. Other map layers (e.g. satellite imagery) can be switched on and off using the controls to the right of the map.
Note, StormTracker will show forecast tracks of tropical cyclones beyond the point at which they may be deemed to have become 'post-tropical' or 'extra-tropical', if there is a coherent low pressure area to track. No attempt is made to diagnose, for example, when a hurricane should be considered an 'ex-hurricane'.
What are the storm names used in StormTracker?
StormTracker displays the observed and forecast tracks of all currently active tropical cyclones. This includes named storms, hurricanes and typhoons and also weaker tropical disturbances and depressions. The latter often do not have a name, but are denoted by an identifier consisting of two digits and a letter. When a tropical depression strengthens into a storm it is usually given a name.

Past and future names of tropical cyclones

What is a tropical cyclone?
A tropical cyclone is the generic term for a low pressure system over tropical or sub-tropical waters, with organised convection (i.e. thunderstorm activity) and winds at low levels circulating either anti-clockwise (in the northern hemisphere) or clockwise (in the southern hemisphere). The whole storm system may be five to six miles high and 300 to 400 miles wide, although sometimes can be even bigger. It typically moves forward at speeds of 10-15 mph, but can travel as fast as 40 mph. At its very early and weak stages it is called a 'tropical depression'. When the winds reach 39 mph it is called a 'tropical storm'. If the wind should reach 74 mph or more the tropical storm is called a 'hurricane' in the Atlantic and the north-east Pacific or a 'typhoon' in the north-west Pacific. In other parts of the world, such as the Indian Ocean and South Pacific the term 'cyclone' or 'tropical cyclone' is used.

Further information on tropical cyclones worldwide

 Last updated: 8 October 2014 

Share this page

 
Tweet

 











Met Office Storms Twitter feed




Related pages

Tropical cyclones warnings and guidance 
Forecast verification  Tropical cyclone short-period forecast verification 
Past tropical cyclones These composite charts show the observed tracks of all tropical cyclones to occur in each region for a given season. 

Related links








Explore the Met Office


Home

Home
Products
Research
Climate
Learning
News
Invent
Magazine
Mobile
About us
Jobs and careers



Most popular forecast

London weather
Manchester weather
Edinburgh weather
Lowestoft weather
Exeter weather
Glasgow weather
York weather
Reading weather
Leeds weather
Brighton weather
Bournemouth weather
Cardiff weather



Upcoming events

Event forecasts
Birdwatch
Burns Night
Up Helly Aa
Chinese New Year 2015



Services

Pollen forecast
UV and sun health
General Aviation services



Learning

Cloud spotting guide
Where are the windiest parts of the UK
What is the jet stream?
What is fog?
Dew
Rainbows
Why is the sky blue?
Science
Training



Featured

UK forecast
Last 24 hours
Five day forecast
Severe weather warnings
World weather
Shipping forecast and gales
Surface pressure charts
Mountain weather forecast
How the Met Office website uses cookies





Follow us on









 

Get updates

Email alerts
RSS





Contact us
Help
Accessibility
Legal
Privacy and cookies
Jobs and careers
Site map

 
				© Crown copyright 


 


This website uses cookies. Read about how we use cookies.







































