Getting ready for winter - whatever the weather - Met Office
Getting ready for winter - whatever the weather - Met Office





 



Email alerts



Enter email address







Contact us




Search












Weather

Climate

Learning

Research

Products

News

Holiday weather

Get ready for winter





News releases

Met Office news blog

Media resources

Social media

Contact the Press Office

What's new






This website uses cookies. Read about how we use cookies.





Weather warnings may have been issued


Home

Public

News

News releases

Archive

2014

Winter Weather Planning
















Getting ready for winter - whatever the weather




22 October 2014 - The Met Office will once again be hosting the 'Get Ready for Winter' web pages on behalf of a range of Government Departments and voluntary organisations. The pages offer advice and links to a range of information to help individuals, families and communities prepare for every aspect of the winter season. By taking simple steps, such as signing up to The Met Office's National Severe Weather Warning Service, members of the public can ensure they keep warm, healthy and safe this winter. The campaign will build on last year's initiative which saw thousands of people get the information they need to prepare for all weather conditions through the winter months. 
					Oliver Letwin, Minister for Government Policy, said: "Building on the success of the 'Get Ready for Winter' initiative in previous years, government departments and our partners in the voluntary sector will again be providing advice that will help individuals, families and communities prepare and stay safe this winter. From tips on preparing your property and vehicle for adverse conditions, to the latest weather forecasts and warnings, the initiative will once more provide a one-stop shop for all winter weather-related information"Rob Varley, Met Office Chief Executive said: "As Britain's National Weather Service we are committed to ensuring the public get the best information and guidance to help them stay safe this winter."These pages are designed to provide useful information that helps the UK public to be prepared and safe during the winter months, whatever the weather. We can't change the weather but we can help everyone make the most of it through our accurate forecasts and advice from our partners around the country."Simon Lewis, Head of UK Emergency Planning & Response at the 
		
		
		British Red Cross said: "Last winter, many people were badly affected by strong winds and flooding. It is important that we provide communities with the best advice to help reduce vulnerability. To help prepare people, prior to the event, each voluntary sector organisation supporting this initiative has made simple to follow advice and guidance available on their websites."The Scottish Government's 
		
		
		'Ready for Winter' campaign also aims to raise awareness of the risks that winter can bring and how people and their communities can be more prepared during severe weather. So how can you be more prepared for severe weather? Prepare your property and vehicle ahead of winter, and take responsibility for your own safety.Be aware of the latest weather forecasts and warnings from the Met Office. Be prepared to alter your plans in times of severe weather.Look after the elderly and more vulnerable in your community. 
 Last updated: 22 October 2014
	

Share this page



Tweet










Tweet











Related pages

Contact information

Get ready for winter
							Get ready for winter web pages contain information and useful links to supporting websites.

Campaign partners
							The campaign is joined up approach from across the public, private and voluntary sectors. 

Communities
							There are practical steps you can take to support your community in preparing for winter weather. 

Keep warm, keep well
							Helping you keep warm and well this winter.

Protecting your home
							Tips to help you keep your home safe over the winter

Trains, 'planes and automobiles
							Preparations and precautions when travelling in winter.









Explore the Met Office


Home

Home

Products

Research

Climate

Learning

News

Invent

Magazine

Mobile

About us

Jobs and careers




Most popular forecast

London weather

Manchester weather

Edinburgh weather

Lowestoft weather

Exeter weather

Glasgow weather

York weather

Reading weather

Leeds weather

Brighton weather

Bournemouth weather

Cardiff weather




Upcoming events

Event forecasts

Birdwatch

Burns Night

Up Helly Aa

Chinese New Year 2015




Services

Pollen forecast

UV and sun health

General Aviation services




Learning

Cloud spotting guide

Where are the windiest parts of the UK

What is the jet stream?

What is fog?

Dew

Rainbows

Why is the sky blue?

Science

Training




Featured

UK forecast

Last 24 hours

Five day forecast

Severe weather warnings

World weather

Shipping forecast and gales

Surface pressure charts

Mountain weather forecast

How the Met Office website uses cookies






Follow us on










Get updates

Email alerts
RSS





Contact us
Help
Accessibility
Legal
Privacy and cookies
Jobs and careers
Site map


© Crown copyright










