Super typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) enters PHL - CNN iReport
Super typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) enters PHL - CNN iReport






Our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy have changed.
By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the new Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.








You've selected the U.S. Edition. Would you like to make this your default edition? YES | NO
 


Close 







EDITION: U.S. 
CNN INTERNATIONAL
MÉXICO
CNN ARABIC









News
Video
TV
Opinions
More...




























SIGN UP

|
 LOG IN




















































































Share this on:



 Twitter

 Tumblr

 E-mail 




















 Tweet 











 









18,608VIEWS
4COMMENTS
 SHARES




About this iReport
Approved for CNN



 
Posted             November 7, 2013
 by 

leoudtohan Follow





                                    Location  
                                    Bohol, Philippines
                                






Editor's Pick!
Team iReport featured this story



Assignment





                                            This iReport is part of an assignment: 
Typhoon Haiyan: Your stories










 
leoudtohan and 14 other iReporters contributed to Open Story: Typhoon Haiyan's impact





More from leoudtohan


Sparkling Christmas 2014 celebration
Giant Santa Claus gives colors this Christmas
Christmas Village gives joy and cheer this Holiday!  
Rough seas due to typhoon Hagupit (Ruby)
Philippines braces for super typhoon Hagupit (Ruby)


 









More iReports you should see













Huge Trident Nuclear Weapons Protest in London 
            

By LauraMuresan













Kenai Fjords National Park 
            

By rahmad













Whats a 31 year age difference? 
            

By greydog1924













Love in a Care Package 
            

By Kateg1111













Canned Food Love 
            

By jaycoop1




 



                    Super typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) enters PHL
                

                    By leoudtohan  |  Posted             November 7, 2013
 |  Bohol, Philippines 
                
                


 
 Share





 



CNN PRODUCER NOTE     iReporter leoudtohan captured this video of inclement weather conditions in the Bohol island province in the central Philippines as Typhoon Haiyan bears down on the country. Some low lying areas have been evacuated and locals have prepared by cutting down unstable tree limbs and suspending school classes, he said. Bohol was hit by an earthquake last month which left more than 200 dead and many residents are still in makeshift shelters.  Read the latest on Super Typhoon Haiyan from CNN.
- sarahbrowngb, CNN iReport producer



Haiyan (Yolanda) becomes an extremely catastrophic super typhoon and is considered as the most powerful of all Super Typhoons for 2013. It now endangers Leyte and Samar provinces as well as the whole of Central Visayas in the Philippines. The potential landfall area of this super typhoon is likely along the Northern Leyte on or before noontime on Friday, November 08. Local disaster officials in Bohol, Philippines, which was affected by 7.2 magnitude earthquake last month, are on red alert, as flashfloods and landslides continue to be a threat. The province of Bohol is placed under storm signal no. 2.Families were evacuated in quake-hit towns on Thursday night. Some fishermen have decided not to set sail while residents in low-lying areas have been advised to prepare for evacuation.



TAGS:
storm, 
yolanda, 
haiyan, 
typhoon, 
hurricane, 
flashfloods, 
andrea, 
supertyphoon

GROUPS:




What do you think of this story?
Select one of the options below. Your feedback will help tell CNN producers what to do with this iReport. If you'd like, you can explain your choice in the comments below.
Be and editor! Choose an option below: 








More from this assignment - Typhoon Haiyan: Your stories

 







 

Magnificent view from Tacloban












 

What Now?












 

San Jose, Tacloban












See all 536 iReports










Comments 

Log in to comment




                 iReport welcomes a lively discussion, so comments on iReports are not pre-screened before they
                 post. See the iReport community guidelines
                 for details about content that is not welcome on iReport.
            



























iReport 101




About
 |

Blog





Awards


 
 Community Guidelines
 
 Meet the Team
 
 Terms of Use
 

We are Everywhere

 
 Facebook
 
 Twitter
 
 Tumblr
 
 Flickr
 

Get Help

 
 StoryTelling Toolkit
 
 FAQs
 
 Contact Us
 
 Advertising Contacts
 

Tools

 
 How to post iReports
 
 CNN Mobile apps
 





















Welcome! Let's get started.












Member Log In


Reset Successful
Log in now.






Forgot password? 







Remember me for two weeks











Forgot Password
Enter your e-mail address below and we will send you an e-mail with a link and reset code to reset your password.









Continue if you already have the reset code 





Password Selection

Grab the reset code we e-mailed to you.Type it in, and create your new password.


Create your new password





























Sign Up
 Be sure to fill in everything with an *









Providing your contact information helps us verify your stories to include in CNN coverage.





Can't read this?





By clicking on "sign up" you agree with CNN's Terms of Service, CNN iReport's Terms of Service, and CNN's Privacy Policy and consent to the collection, storage and use of this information in the U.S. subject to U.S. laws and regulations. 
(learn more) 


For our international users, please be aware that the information you submit when registering for our services is collected in the United States of America. In addition to being subject to our Privacy Policy, the collection, storage, and use of your data will be subject to U.S. laws and regulations, which may be different from the laws and regulations of your home country. By registering for this service, you are consenting to this collection, storage, and use. 

























































Create your screen name
Please create a screen name. This screen name will be associated with your
iReport stories and comments on this site.
It cannot be changed once you make a selection.





Select one with 3-12 characters, numbers and letters only













































