Super Typhoon Hagupit to hit Philippines - Al Jazeera English


Super Typhoon Hagupit to hit Philippines - Al Jazeera English 
 










































  























al jazeera
menu
 



submit

 
Your account
          
NewsMore
Arts & Culture
Business & Economy
Environment
Health
Humanitarian crises
Media
Poverty & Development
Politics
Science & Technology
War & Conflict

All
Africa
Asia Pacific
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada

Human Rights
Sport
In Pictures
Infographics
Blogs
Weather
#FreeAJStaff
Digital Magazine
FeaturedAnalysis: Hello Bibi, Shalom BarrackHeavy symbolism of Obama's India visit

ProgrammesMoreDocumentaries

Witness
101 East
People & Power
Al Jazeera World
Fault Lines
Lifelines
Viewfinder
The System
Al Jazeera Correspondent
Africa Investigates
Special Series
Discussions

Inside Story
The Stream
Empire
Head to Head
Talk to Al Jazeera
Newsmagazine Shows

The Listening Post
earthrise
The CURE
Counting the Cost
Innovate Africa
TechKnow
reVIEW
FeaturedThe SystemThe Girls of the Taliban

Opinion
Investigations
AboutMoreAl Jazeera English

About Us
Code of Ethics
Press Office
Awards
Connect

Contact Us
Mobile
Social
Channel Finder
Newsletter
Broadcast Schedule
Podcasts
Digital Magazine
Our Network

AJ America
AJ Arabic
AJ Balkans
AJ Turk
AJ Mubasher
AJ Documentary
AJ Center for Studies
AJ Training Center
FeaturedAJ+AJ Learning




 
Topics:
Narendra Modi 
Barack Obama 
India 
ISIL 
Yemen

 



  
#FreeAJStaff
We demand the release of our journalists unjustly jailed in Egypt. Watch Now

"America was never built for black people"
Artist Akon talks about being an African in the US












    WeatherSuper Typhoon Hagupit to hit Philippines

One of the most powerful storms of 2014 is bearing down on the country bringing the threat of damaging winds and floods.
Richard Angwin | 04 Dec 2014 10:55 GMT | Weather
Supermarket shelves are cleared as residents of Tacloban stock up ahead of Hagupit's arrival [AFP]The Philippines are preparing for the arrival of what could be the strongest typhoon of 2014.Super Typhoon Hagupit is expected to strike the country at the weekend as the equivalent of a Category 2 or 3 hurricane on the five point Saffir-Simpson scale with sustained winds close to 200kph.Hugupit is currently intensifying. Peak winds on Friday, when the typhoon is still over open water, are expected to reach 315kph with gusts of 380kph. Thunderstorms are rising to nearly 16km into the atmosphere and rainfall rates are an astonishing 138mm per hour.The threat posed by Hagupit has caused great concern across the country, as it comes just over one year since Super Typhoon Haiyan.Haiyan will live long in the memory for many Filipinos as it was the strongest storm ever to hit the country with sustained winds just before landfall of 315kph. It was also the deadliest storm to hit the Philippines; 6,300 people lost their lives as a result of damaging winds and a massive storm surge which peaked at over 6 metres in the port city of Tacloban on the central island of Leyte.There is great concern for the residents of the area as at least 3,500 families are still living in tents and temporary structures. Authorities have already evacuated 10 to 15,000 people from their homes.There is still considerable doubt as to the exact track Hagupit will take. The US Joint Typhoon Warning Center favours a track which takes Haugpit northwards towards central Luzon as a Category 4 or 5 system.Most other computer predictions, including the usually reliable European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts, track Hagupit on a more westerly track with landfall on Samar island during Saturday.If, as seems likely, but by no means certain, the storm follows this trajectory, it will move across slightly cooler waters. This, coupled with less favourable winds higher in the atmosphere, should see Hagupit weaken to the equivalent of a Category 2 to 3 hurricane with sustained winds of 180 to 200kph.These winds will bring huge waves but storm surge predictions are currently less than one metre.It may well be that the greatest threat to life and property comes not from the winds or the waves, but from the rainfall. Between 300 and 600mm of rain could fall in a matter of hours. This will pose a high risk of flooding and mudslides.Source: Al Jazeera

 RelatedPhilippines: After Haiyan
A year after Typhoon Haiyan, we return to the hardest hit areas and ask if enough is being done to help storm survivors.
Environment, Philippines, Humanitarian crises, Asia PacificPhilippines marks Typhoon Haiyan anniversary
Thousands still left homeless a year after deadly storm hit the country leaving close to 8,000 dead or missing.
Humanitarian crises, Philippines, Asia Pacific, Weather 


            Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
            are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
            or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
            global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
            accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.
     




    Featured
Q&A: Jailed Saudi blogger's wife calls for his release
Wife of Raif Badawi, a blogger sentenced to 10 years in Saudi Arabia and 1,000 lashes, says he is a "peaceful person".
Human Rights, Politics, Saudi Arabia

Profile: Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud 
Salman, defence minister since 2011, takes the throne at age of 79 after demise of his half-brother King Abdullah.
Politics, Middle East, Saudi Arabia

France's growing income inequality problem
As the world's elite gather at the World Economic Forum in Davos, many Paris citizens struggling just to get by.

Greece election: The left's austerity showdown
Main opposition Syriza party's platform of delaying debt repayment aims to sweep vote and undo austerity hardship.
Politics, Germany, Greece
    

 Related
Philippines: After Haiyan
A year after Typhoon Haiyan, we return to the hardest hit areas and ask if enough is being done to help storm survivors.
Environment, Philippines, Humanitarian crises, Asia Pacific

Philippines marks Typhoon Haiyan anniversary
Thousands still left homeless a year after deadly storm hit the country leaving close to 8,000 dead or missing.
Humanitarian crises, Philippines, Asia Pacific, Weather
     Latest News
Greece exit polls show victory for left-wing Syriza 
Exit polls at close of voting show result set to bring in a government led by the anti-austerity left-wing Syriza party.
Politics, Europe

Boko Haram launches offensive on Nigeria's Maiduguri
Armed group also attacks northern town of Monguno, as US secretary of state arrives in country for talks with president.
War & Conflict, Africa, Nigeria, Boko Haram, John Kerry
    Most viewed

France To be or not to be 'Charlie'?
Reporting the Baga massacre
Hollywood shoots Arabs The movie
Who are Saudi Arabia's new crown princes?
Return to Morocco
A slap in the face reveals a lot about Mexico
Voting under way in Greece's snap general election
Obama declares nuclear 'breakthrough' during India trip
Nigerian vigilantes aim to rout Boko Haram
Hidden state Inside North Korea




 Programme HighlightsFault LinesHidden state: Inside North KoreaFault Lines gains rare access into North Korea and examines the impact of US policies on the secretive nation.
	
Politics, Environment, US & CanadaPeople & PowerPhosphate fantasies	The damaging health effects of Tunisia's phosphate mines on workers who hoped the Arab Spring would bring change.Health, Politics, TunisiaWitnessBeauty Behind BarsCan a beauty contest restore the dignity and hope of Colombian women put behind bars because of drugs and violence? Arts & Culture, Latin America, ColombiaAl Jazeera WorldReturn to MoroccoThe story of Morocco's Jewish community told from the perspective of those who have left, stayed or are now returning.Politics, War & Conflict, France



 

 


News

Programmes

Opinion

About

Investigations

Video



Facebook

Twitter

Google+

RSS

Podcast

YouTube






					About


About Us

Press Office

Awards

Code of Ethics

Terms and Conditions

Community Guidelines




					Connect


Contact Us

Mobile

Social

Channel Finder

Broadcast Schedule

Podcasts

Newsletter

Digital Magazine






					Our Channels


AJ America

AJ +

AJ Arabic

AJ Balkans

AJ Turk

AJ Mubasher

AJ Documentary




					Our Network


AJ Center for Studies

AJ Forum

AJ Training Center

AJ Film Festival

AJ Learning

AJ Hotel Partners






					 





					© 2015 Al Jazeera Media Network





	 




















