Storm nears typhoon-ravaged area in Philippines - CSMonitor.com 
Storm nears typhoon-ravaged area in Philippines - CSMonitor.com





 



 


 

















			Passcode
		





			DC Decoder
		





			Security Watch
		



 
































World





All World


Africa

Africa Monitor


Americas

Latin America Monitor


Asia Pacific
Asia: South & Central
Europe
Middle East

Olive Press






Passcode


Passcode Voices


Progress Watch
Security Watch

Terrorism & Security
Backchannels
Reality Check
Under the Radar
Security Voices


Global Issues
Global News Blog




People Making a Difference

Change Agent
Latest News Wires


Latest News Wires
Specials

Africa's AIDS Orphans
Little Bill Clinton
Hostage: The Jill Carroll Story
Difference Maker


World Topics



 


USA





All USA


DC Decoder

Decoder Buzz
Decoder Voices


Elections

President
House
Senate
Governors
Vox News
From the Wires






Education
Foreign Policy
Justice
Military
Politics

The Vote
The Monitor Breakfast


Society
Sports
USA Update
Latest News Wires







 


Commentary





All Commentary


The Monitor's View
Readers Respond
Global Newsstand
Upfront Blog

Monitor Political Cartoons
Specials

100 years of Monitor journalism









 


Business





All Business


The Bite
Tax VOX
The New Economy
Saving Money
In Gear
Paper Economy
Robert Reich
Latest News Wires




Guide to Giving

America's Top 50 charities in 2014 ranked by total income







 


Energy / Environment





All Energy / Environment


Alternative Energy
Global Warming
Energy Voices
Habitat / Wildlife
Latest News Wires
Energy/Environment Topics







 


Innovation





All Innovation


Tech
Tech Culture
Responsible Tech
Pioneers
Horizons
Energy
Latest News Wires







 


Science





All Science










 


Culture





All Culture


Arts
Music
Movies

Monitor Movie Guide


TV
Poetry
Verbal Energy
The Home Forum
Culture Cafe




Family

Modern Parenthood


Food

Stir It Up!
Recipe Categories


Gardening

Religion
Articles on Christian Science
Latest News Wires





 


Books





All Books


Book Reviews
Chapter & Verse
Readers' Picks
Latest News Wires







 


Take Action





All Take Action


Environment
Education
Conflict Resolution
Disaster Relief and Recovery
Human Trafficking







 




4 Free Issues




Subscribe
Give a Gift
Manage Account
Daily News Briefing


 
























 World
Latest News Wires






Storm nears typhoon-ravaged area in Philippines






Editors' Picks








4 Free Issues


 

Email


More



























			Super Bowl 2015 commercials: Will sponsors help mend NFL's image? 
		













 USA Update



			American Sniper: What do veterans say about the movie? (+video)
		













 USA Update



			Ernie Banks a.k.a. Mr. Cub because of his enduring optimism (+video)
		















			Super Bowl recipes: Easy appetizers and desserts
		






 


Government forecasters said Typhoon Hagupit was packing sustained winds of 127 miles per hour and gusts of up to 149 mph over the Pacific Ocean.


By
Jim Gomez, Associated Press

December 4, 2014 












Typhoon Haiyan survivors, some of whom are still living in tents, queue up to buy groceries in Tacloban city, Leyte province in central Philippines Thursday, Dec. 4, 2014 in anticipation of the incoming Typhoon Hagupit which is forecasted to hit the central Philippines this weekend. Villagers fled their coastal homes and sparked panic-buying in grocery stores and gas stations in a central Philippine region Thursday as the approaching powerful storm brought back nightmares of last year's deadly onslaught from Typhoon Haiyan.




 AP View Caption 







Manila, Philippines — Villagers in the central Philippines fled coastal homes and sparked panic-buying in grocery stores and gas stations as an approaching powerful storm brought back nightmares of last year's deadly onslaught from Typhoon Haiyan.Government forecasters said Typhoon Hagupit was packing sustained winds of 127 miles per hour and gusts of up to 149 mph over the Pacific, about 435 miles off the country's eastern coast. It may hit Eastern Samar province on Saturday and barrel inland along the same route where Haiyan leveled villages and left more than 7,300 dead and missing in November last year.Haiyan survivor Emily Sagales said many of her still-edgy neighbors in central Tacloban city, which was ravaged by Haiyan, packed their clothes and fled to a sports stadium and safer homes of relatives. Long lines formed at grocery stores and gas stations as residents stocked up on basic goods, she said.
					Recommended: 	
																				
															
						
		
	
				
	
				
	

 

	
											

	
	
																															

						
			
	
			Typhoon Haiyan: Where does it rank among huge storms?
		
"The trauma has returned," the 23-year-old Sagales said. In the wake of last year's typhoon, which killed her mother-in-law and washed away her home, she gave birth to her first child, a baby girl, in a crowded makeshift clinic filled with the injured and the dying near the Tacloban airport.


			Typhoon Haiyan: Where does it rank among huge storms?
		




In Pictures
			Philippines typhoons
		





Photos of the Day
			Photos of the weekend
		

"It's worse now because I didn't have a baby to worry about last year," she said.Haiyan demolished about 1 million houses and displaced about 4 million people in the central Philippines. Hundreds of residents still living in tents in Tacloban have been prioritized in an ongoing evacuation.Hotels in Tacloban, a city of more than 200,000 people still struggling to recover from last year's massive damage, were running out of rooms as wealthier families booked ahead for the weekend."The sun is still shining but people are obviously scared. Almost all of our rooms have been booked," said Roan Florendo of the hilltop Leyte Park hotel, which lies near San Pedro Bay in Tacloban.The government put the military on full alert, workers opened evacuation centers and transported food packs, medicines and body bags to far-flung villages, which could be cut off by heavy rains.In Manila, President Benigno Aquino III on Thursday led an emergency meeting of disaster-response agencies and ordered steps to prevent panic-buying and hoarding of goods.Aquino checked on the readiness of Philippine air force aircraft, hospitals and police contingency plans to deal with possible looting similar to what happened in Tacloban after Haiyan crippled the city's police force."I think we've been challenged worse by Yolanda," Aquino told officials, referring to Haiyan's local name. But during the nationally televised meeting, he was told that Hagupit — Tagalog for "smash" — has further strengthened.Initially, forecasters said there was a chance the typhoon could veer north away from the Philippines in the direction of Japan. Science and Technology Secretary Mario Montejo, however, told Aquino on Thursday it was almost certain the typhoon would slam into the country's eastern coast.Some towns in the typhoon's predicted path said they will shut schools on Friday. Inter-island ferries and some commercial flights were canceled.The government also decided to move the venue of a meeting next week of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, which was to be attended by hundreds of diplomats from 21 member economies, from Albay province, which could be lashed by the typhoon, to the capital, Manila, which forecasters say will likely be spared.







Related Stories










			Typhoon Haiyan: Where does it rank among huge storms?
		










			Typhoon Haiyan: One year later, Philippines 'building back better' (+video)
		





 Under the Radar



			In Philippines, family politics muddy post-typhoon rebuild
		








Share this story:




More
Email
Print



















About these ads



Popular Now








 Focus



			Low oil prices chill a once-hot oil town in North Dakota
		















			ISIS video: Is this Japanese beheading real or fake? (+video)
		















			American Sniper: What do veterans say about the movie? (+video)
		















			Are you a Helicopter Parent? Take our quiz
		















			Why it matters that Donald Trump is attacking Mitt Romney
		








 

 


 











Could you pass a US citizenship test? Find out.








 







4 Free issues Subscribe








About these ads








Make a Difference
Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.

TAKE ACTION






Follow Stories Like This
Get the Monitor stories you care about delivered to your inbox.













 
 






About these ads
 




				We want to hear, did we miss an angle we should have covered? Should we come back to this topic?
				Or just give us a rating for this story. We want to hear from you.
			


Your name:



Your e-mail address:




Your comment:




Loading...


Loading...


Loading...















 









Global Galleries






			Photos of the weekend
		






Editors' picks






			Super Bowl 2015 commercials: Will sponsors help mend NFL's image? (+video)
		






Doing Good






			Cycle-riding coop fills dual needs: waste removal, composting
		






Movies






			'Winter Sleep' is a magnificent film that recalls Chekhov and Eugene O'Neill
		






Europe






			Throttling a 'Leviathan'? Russia tightens controls on its film industry (+video)
		






Change Agent






			Why Bill and Melinda Gates expect record progress for global poor
		






Music






			Live Earth 2015: Can concerts for a cause make a difference?
		






People Making a Difference




 Difference Maker



			Magalie Dresse is helping Haiti move beyond handouts
		






Passcode






			One-time chronicler of Anonymous, Barrett Brown, sentenced to five years 
		






Innovation






			Microsoft reveals HoloLens as the battle for VR goggles heats up
		






Sports






			Super Bowl firsts: Take our quiz
		









































Stay Current. Go Far.Discover the Monitor Difference





About
Contact Us
Subscribe
E-Readers
Advertise With Us
Careers
Find us online


Content Map
Text
Multimedia
Corrections
Articles on Christian Science





© The Christian Science Monitor. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy.














 














 










































