BBC News - Pope in Philippines: Huge Mass in typhoon-hit Tacloban







BBC News - Pope in Philippines: Huge Mass in typhoon-hit Tacloban














        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help   
BBC iDSign in
  BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Asia







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


China
India



















 
        Media playback is unsupported on your device           Pope in Philippines: Huge Mass in typhoon-hit Tacloban 16 January 2015 Last updated at 16:13 GMT   Half a million people are expected to attend a Mass in Tacloban, Philippines, with Pope Francis on Saturday as part of his tour of of Asia.The event will be held in an area devastated by typhoon Haiyan in 2013, a tropical cyclone which was one of the strongest ever recorded and killed over 3,500 people.The BBC's Rupert Wingfield-Hayes said Catholics had travelled from across the region to attend the Mass.
 Read more   Pope Francis in Manila urges leaders to end corruption     Down-to-earth Pope scores hit in Asia          


        Share this story        About sharing




Email




Facebook




Twitter




             Related   Most watched   Top stories      Related video / audio        2:15   Catholicism and me: The Philippines 2 October 2014
        0:26   Pope 'punch' on papal plane 15 January 2015
        0:31   Pope loses hat in windy Manila 15 January 2015
        1:13   Pope Francis arrives in Sri Lanka 13 January 2015
        0:59   Pope Francis looks East to Asia 13 January 2015
        2:04   Pope Francis travels to north Sri Lanka 14 January 2015
       Most watched       Top stories       World       UK       Business       Politics       Health       Science &amp Environment       Technology       Entertainment         





You're looking at our new site.
Learn more 


                    Tell us what you think                

                    Back to current site                











Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       Copyright © 2015 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
































    









