Typhoon Hagupit hits the Philippines  - Telegraph
Typhoon Hagupit hits the Philippines  - Telegraph

























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Sunday 25 January 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Afghanistan
Pakistan
India
North Korea
South Korea
Japan
Kazakhstan





Home»
News»
World News»
Asia»
Philippines











Typhoon Hagupit hits the Philippines 
More than half a million people flee Typhoon Hagupit as it makes landfall in the Philippines 



























 



							By Jonathan Pearlman, Sydney

3:31PM GMT 06 Dec 2014
 



Typhoon Hagupit hit the Philippines on Saturday, after more than 600,000 
  people had fled its path in what was one of the world's biggest peacetime 
  evacuations ever. 


The storm caused gusts of up to 137mph as it moved west towards the 
  archipelago and threatened widespread destruction, just 13 months after a "super 
  typhoon" devastated the region. Last year's typhoon killed more than 
  7,000 people and displaced more than four million. 


The incoming storm has a front of almost 400 miles and had begun to cause 
  heavy winds, rain and blackouts but appeared to weaken as it moved towards 
  the nation's eastern provinces. However, international weather bureaus gave 
  conflicting assessments of the likely route. 


"Ruby's lashing will be severe," Manuel Roxas, the interior 
  secretary told government radio, referring to the local name for the 
  typhoon. 


"The wind feels like there's a huge electric fan blowing air from the 
  Pacific – let's be alert. Let's evacuate to prevent any harm to your 
  families."

Related Articles



Philippines braces for another typhoon a year on from Haiyan

05 Dec 2014



'I didn't know I was pregnant when Typhoon Haiyan took my husband'

03 Nov 2014



Typhoon Haiyan: the Philippines families still living in tents a year later

03 Nov 2014



Thousands flee as Typhoon hits Philippine capital

19 Sep 2014





Authorities said about 616,000 people had fled coastal villages and 
  landslide-prone areas and taken shelter in churches, schools, gyms, town 
  halls and community centres. Other reports stated the number of people 
  evacuated could be closer to one million. 


Many of those evacuated were survivors of Haiyan, the devastating typhoon in 
  November last year, which wiped out farming and fishing communities and 
  destroyed more than one million homes. 


Scientists said Haiyan was one of the worst storms to ever make landfall; tens 
  of thousands of families still live in tents and makeshift housing. 


The latest typhoon, named Hagupit, had already caused a small landslide, heavy 
  rain and strong winds and is set to trigger 15-foot storm surges. 


Despite being downgraded to category three, two levels below "super 
  typhoon", it is due to bring torrential rain and potential flooding and 
  could cause widespread destruction over the next three to four days. 




"I'm scared," Jojo Moro, a survivor of Haiyan, told Associated 
  Press. "I'm praying to God not to let another disaster strike us again. 
  We haven't recovered from the first." 


Teresina Aban, a 58-year-old housewife at an evacuation centre in eastern 
  Samar province, told Reuters she was afraid she would lose her house. 


"I am afraid and scared," she said. "We're prepared but still 
  fearful, we haven't finished repairing our house, it still has tarpaulin 
  patches and here comes another storm."


AccuWeather Global Weather Center said more than 30 million people would feel 
  the impact of the typhoon, almost a third of the nation's 108 million 
  people. Manila, the capital, was unlikely to be seriously affected, though 
  some southern suburbs may be at risk. 


"Typhoon Hagupit is triggering one of the largest evacuations we have 
  ever seen in peacetime," said Denis McClean, from the United Nations 
  Office for Disaster Risk Reduction. 


Hagupit approached the coast on Saturday at speeds of about 8mph, compared 
  with Haiyan's speed last year of about 25mph. 


However, aid agencies warned that some evacuation centres were unsafe and 
  unlikely to withstand the onslaught of the coming typhoon. 


"A damage assessment of designated evacuation centres in typhoon-affected 
  areas indicated that in some places – less than 10 per cent of evacuation 
  centres were likely to withstand future typhoons," said Refugees 
  International in a statement. 




Filipino families seek refuge at a school used as an evacuation center as 
  they prepare for Typhoon Hagupit in Legazpi, Albay province, eastern 
  Philippines


"While the hope is that large-scale evacuations will help save lives, 
  there's little doubt that Hagupit will bring a great deal of fear and 
  suffering to thousands of Filipinos who already lost everything to Haiyan." 

Hundreds of domestic flights were cancelled across the country, ports were 
  closed and inter-island ferry services were suspended. The military and 
  police were patrolling cities such as Tacloban, where there was widespread 
  looting in the aftermath of last year's disaster. 


"The soldiers will help our police counterparts in maintaining peace and 
  order, and prevent looting incidents," said Colonel Restituto Padilla 
  Jr, a military spokesman. 


But the two main agencies tracking the typhoon, the United States military's 
  Joint Typhoon Warning Centre in Hawaii and the Philippines weather agency, 
  gave different assessments of the storm's path. 


The US agency predicted a northern route that could reach as far as the 
  southern outskirts of Manila, while the national agency predicted a more 
  southern route cutting through the central islands. About 47 of the 
  country's 81 provinces are believed to lie in the path of the storm. 


"The threat of flash floods and landslides are likely in hazard-prone 
  areas especially along river banks and mountain slopes of the affected areas," 
  said Weather Philippines, a weather monitoring website. 


However, aid agencies said lessons from last year appear to have been learnt 
  and much of the population in high-risk areas had evacuated. 


"There has been a tremendous amount of learning from last year," 
  said Greg Matthews, from the International Rescue Committee. 


"There have been reports from our field officers and partners that people 
  are evacuating themselves. They are aware of the situation."




Some aid agencies were reporting that small numbers of residents were choosing 
  to remain in villages to try to brave the storm. 


"In the end it's their decision," Jacqui Symonds from CARE Australia 
  told ABC News. 


"Most people are heading to the evacuation centres and following the 
  advice of the government. But there are some who choose to stay in their 
  homes if they feel that they're strong enough and ... feel protected enough." 

The Philippines, an island nation that has warm ocean temperatures and is 
  exposed to the western Pacific Ocean, is particularly prone to typhoons and 
  has about a 20 a year. 


Much of the population lives in low-lying poor coast villages, where weak 
  construction and inadequate infrastructure have increased the risk of 
  serious damage to people and properties. 


Benigno Aquino, the nation's president, told his disaster agency heads in a 
  televised address this week: "Let's prepare for everything. I will not 
  be very patient with excuses after this event. Failure on the priorities is 
  unforgivable." 




Iframe not supported





 






Philippines





News »


World News »


Asia »


Mobile »









In Philippines






 


Pope visits Philippines








 


Typhoon Hagupit








 


Typhoon Haiyan anniversary








 


Stars in his eyes








 


Typhoon Kalmaegi in pictures

























Top news galleries





Sundance Film Festival 2015 in pictures




 


 Film


Pictures from the 2015 Sundance Festival in Park City, Utah


Comments






Karen Danczuk's selfies




 




In pics: Councillor posts revealing photos for her 35.8k Twitter 
  followers






How the Telegraph covered Sir Winston's death





On January 15, 1965, Winston Churchill suffered a severe stroke. But his death 
  was not a surprise, and Britain's mass media was with him at every step. 
  Follow how the Telegraph covered the story






Auschwitz 70th anniversary




 




In pics: Nazi concentration camp survivors






Animal photos of the week




 




All creatures great and small in our ever popular animal gallery. 






The week in pictures




 




A round-up of our favourite photographs of the week 






Miss Universe 2015




 




In pics: Contestants take part in pageant's national costume show in 
  Florida 






Celebrity fashion faux pas




 




As actress Bai Ling makes an almighty fashion faux pas, we round up a host of 
  other red carpet fashion no-nos 






Celebrity sightings




 




Featuring Benedict Cumberbatch, Rihanna and Emma Watson






Matt cartoons: all the best




 




Enjoy all of Matt's cartoons from the last 30 days 









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook







Advertisement










Latest Video»







 


Dramatic video of driver's lucky escape during shelling in Mariupol








 


£10 Super Bowl ad could win maker $1m








 


Murray hints he may sport a kilt with no underwear on his wedding day








 


High-speed archer's video of incredible trick shots goes viral








 


Have-a-go-hero tackles jewellery store robber armed with a machete








 


Jupiter moons cast triple shadow in rare spectacle



 








More from the web







Advertisement











More from the web 











News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








How the EU dream is dying, state by state
Men need nights out with the lads, scientists say
'Death test' predicts chance of dying within 30 days
'Woman on top' is most dangerous sex position
Obama skips Taj Mahal visit despite mammoth clean-up




'Woman on top' is most dangerous sex position
Britain needs 'national debate' about banning Muslim girls from wearing veils in public
'Groundhog Day' student trapped in bizarre déjà vu time loop for 8 years
Drugs, brothels, al-Qaeda and the Beyonce tax: the Green Party plan for Britain
Argentine prosecutor who claimed government cover-up found dead




Unity rally for Paris shootings: as it happened
'Hacktivist' group Anonymous 'declares war' against jihadists
'Woman on top' is most dangerous sex position
Search for AirAsia bodies to resume at dawn
What if this isn't about cartoons?










Advertisement











More from the web




















MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK








 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Audi




 




                                Audi R18 in pictures



                                View







 
				Goodwood




 




                                The very best of Goodwood's Moving Motor Show in pictures



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact Us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 






































