Thousands feared dead in Philippines typhoon aftermath - Channel 4 News 
Thousands feared dead in Philippines typhoon aftermath - Channel 4 News









Skip to Channel 4 News main content
Skip to Channel 4 News search
Skip to Channel 4 News navigation
Skip to Channel 4 navigation








Channels












Sign in


Register
Why register?
Cookies







TV Listings
Watch Live
All Programmes
Shorts
News
Apps









Channel 4 News

Watch live 7pm weekdays, weekend timings see TV listings



Search:


Go







Weather
The weather for the next 5 days





Catch Up
Watch from the last 7 days





Snowmail
Delivered daily to your inbox







Explore



UK



World



Politics



Business



Science



Technology



Culture



Video



Blogs



FactCheck



Special Reports




Blogs & More
											...




Video


Blogs


FactCheck


Special Reports

















Sunday 10 November 2013


Philippines

																, World


Thousands feared dead in Philippines typhoon aftermath

Tweet














At least 10,000 people have been killed in the central Philippines, with estimates expected to leap once remote regions are reached, following one of the most powerful storms ever recorded.







Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.






 


Huge waves have swept away entire coastal villages as super typhoon Haiyan tore through Leyte province on Friday.
The typhoon destroyed an estimated 70 to 80 percent of structures in its path as it tore through Leyte province, according to Elmer Soria, police chief superintendent.
Rescue workers have struggled to reach ravaged villages along the coast, where the death toll is currently unknown.
"People are walking like zombies looking for food," said Jenny Chu, a medical student in Leyte, "It's like a movie."
The storm sustained winds of 195 miles per hour with gusts of up to 235 mph.
Surging sea water strewn with debris, resembling a tsunami, levelled houses and drowned hundreds of people in one of the worst natural disasters to hit the typhoon-prone nation.
The national government and disaster agency have not confirmed the latest estimate of 10,000 deaths, provided by a senior police official.
Early estimates on Saturday had put the figure at 1,000 dead.

Everything has been washed away, so children and their families are in desperate need of food, medicines and dry clothing - Save the Children

(Below) Tacloban Airport before and after it was struck by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.


 






Please wait while this video loads. If it doesn't load after a few seconds you may need to have Adobe Flash installed.






 


#Typhoon Roxas: Sign on an airport roof: "Welcome to Roxas. 2.6m above sea level". Control tower smashed to pieces. #c4news— alex thomson (@alextomo) November 10, 2013



 





Over 330,000 people were displaced and 4.3 million affected by the typhoon across 36 provinces, the UN's humanitarian agency said.
Relief agencies have appealed for food, water and tarpaulins for the homeless.
Witnesses described chaotic scenes in Leyte's capital, Tacloban, a coastal city where hundreds of bodies are piled on the sides of roads and pinned under wrecked homes.
Mila Ward, an Australian citizen witnessed events in Leyte, where she saw  hundreds of bodies on the streets; "They were covered with blankets, plastic. There were children and women."
Officials have yet to make contact with Guiuan, a town of 40,000 first hit by the typhoon. The city of Baco is 80 percent under water, the UN has confirmed.


 


At Tacloban airport, people waited in mud after trekking for hours by foot hoping to be evacuated by military aircraft.
Roads to and from the city are currently impassable, littered with debris and fallen trees and only 110 people can squeeze on to each flight.
Our house is like a skeleton and we are running out of foodJenny Chu
At present the elderly, sick and children are being given priority.
Jenny Chu, a medical student and local resident said she can't recognise her village; "Everything is gone."
"Our house is like a skeleton and we are running out of food and water. We are looking for food everywhere."
 


 


Crisis Map and People finder
Google have released two tools to assist people recover after the disaster. A Crisis Map and a People Finder tool.
Previously the Google Crisis Response team produced similar tools for those seeking friends and family following the Haiti disaster.
Their map tool below shows the path of the typhoon (named as Yolanda locally), evacuation centres and more which they will update with new information.


 





 





 


Save the Children have teams on the ground now in the Philippines and have released this statement. "In areas worst hit, such as Tacloban City on the island of Leyte, there is heavy flooding and no clean water supply nor electricity. Everything has been washed away, so children and their families are in desperate need of food, medicines and dry clothing. "Children are shocked, frightened and traumatised, and huge numbers have lost contact with their families, with no idea of whether their parents and family are even alive. Worse still, there is a tropical depression in the region that meteorologists fear may bring yet more bad weather to people that have little or no protection and are hugely vulnerable."


 






Article Tags

Philippines, Typhoon Haiyan, World

 
More on this story







Philippines hit by Typhoon Haiyan - in pictures
08 November 2013















Advertisement



Today's latest articles








Eight dead after Boko Haram attack Nigerian city
25 Jan 2015







Austerity in Greece: a tragedy or triumph?
25 Jan 2015







Farage: Bashir 'unlikely to last long' with Tories - video
25 Jan 2015





 
Most read today



'They are hanging to life' - Saudi king's ex-wife speaks outWorld is now 'three minutes before armageddon'How you can help rough sleepers during the coldWe were defending British values, say Syria BritonsExclusive: 'locked-up' Saudi princesses' message for Obama Saudi Arabia and the House of Saud: things you should knowNew footage emerges of 'trapped' Saudi princesses Saudi's new boss - same as the old boss?At least 30 dead as rebels 'launch attack' on MariupolWhy Yemen's political collapse matters












back to top ↑








Catch Up
Watch from the last 7 days





Snowmail
Delivered daily to your inbox





Blogs
Insight from the news team







Blogs
News Team
Special Reports
Categories
Featured Countries







About

About the programme
Frequently asked questions
Contact us
Cookies



Network

FactCheck
Unreported World
Dispatches



Elsewhere

Google+
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
RSS Feeds














 Channel 4 


 4Seven 


 E4 


 More4 


 Film4 


 4Music 


 4oD 


 Channel 4 © 2015. We have updated our terms and conditions, privacy policy and cookies policy. Please ensure you read all these documents before using our Digital Products and Services. 



 TV Listings 


 Watch Live 


 All Programmes 


 Shorts 


 News 


 Apps 


 Useful links 

  Viewers  


 Terms and Conditions 


 Privacy Policy 


 Cookies Policy 


 Parental Control 


 Accessibility 


 Blogs 


 Contact Us 


 FAQs 


 C4 Store 




  Corporate  


 Info 


 Press 


 Commissioning 


 Corporate Responsibility 


 Freedom of Information 


 Diversity 


 Talent 


 Jobs 


 Sales 



 Channel 4 © 2015. For more information please read our terms and conditions and privacy policy. 
















