Official: Super Typhoon Death Toll Could Reach 10,000
Official: Super Typhoon Death Toll Could Reach 10,000













New York, NY
Miami, FL
Los Angeles, CA
Browse for your location




















Today's Weather
Hourly Forecast
Extended
Weekend
Month Outlook
Current Weather





















Home


Radar & Maps
Radar Maps
Satellite Maps
Forecast Maps
Surface Maps


News & Video
Weather News
Weather Video
Weather Blogs
Personalities


Extreme Weather
Hurricane Center
Climate Change
Winter Weather
Severe Weather


Social
Social Media
Apps & Downloads
Weather Photos
Weather Forums


  












Login










AccuWeather.com Premium
AccuWeather.com Professional
AccuWeather.com RadarPlus
AccuWeather.com LightningPlus























My Settings




English (US)
Español
Français
Dansk
Português
Nederlands
Norsk
Italiano
Deutsch
Svenska
Suomi
中文 (HK)
中文 (SIM)
中文 (Taiwan)
Español (Argentina)
Español (Latin America)
Slovenčinu
Romana
Čeština
Magyar
Polski
Català
Português (Brazil)
हिन्दी
русский
عربي
Ελληνικά
English (UK)
日本語
한국어
TÜRKÇE
Français (Canada)
עברית
Slovenski
Українське
Bahasa Indonesia
български
Eesti keeles
Hrvatski
Қазақша
Lietuvių
Latviski
Македонски
Bahasa Melayu
Tagalog
Srpski
ไทย
Tiếng Việt
فارسی
বাংলা
bosanski
íslenska
Kiswahili
اُردُو
Crnogorski





°F



°C

















United States









My Recent Countries

United States
China
United Kingdom

More Countries


































United States

World
North America
United States
New York
New York












Close

My Recent Countries

United States
China
United Kingdom







Select a Region



Africa
Antarctica
Arctic
Asia
Central America
Europe
Middle East
North America
Oceania
South America











 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 






        Note: Select a region before finding a country. 
      











Weather
for

















Login

           , °F
















United States
Weather





New York, NY
Local Weather






Blizzard Watch
                












Driving



x



























Add New Interest



























My Recent Locations

















Home





Radar & Maps




News & Video




Winter & Severe




Climate




Social














News



Videos


Blogs


Personalities











Official: Super Typhoon Death Toll Could Reach 10,000




By Eric Leister, Meteorologist
November 13, 2013; 8:45 PM ET


Share
| 
 







Weather across Asia is detailed in the above AccuWeather.com video.

In the wake of once-Super Typhoon Haiyan (local name Yolanda), the death toll has climbed to over 3,600 with more than 12,000 injured and more missing according to the Philippines government.
A senior regional police official and a city administrator in the typhoon-ravaged Tacloban city in the central Philippines say the death toll there could reach 10,000 people as reported by the Associated Press.
Most of the deaths have been caused by drowning and collapsed buildings. However, it is feared that the coastal cities will have even more casualties. With wires, trees and debris cutting off access to these areas, aid has been struggling to reach victims and unable to determine a final death toll.
Tacloban was "ground zero" for Haiyan's devastation, stated AccuWeather.com Meteorologist Eric Wanenchak. CNN reports that no building in Tacloban appeared to have escaped damage from Haiyan.
A large boat sits on top of destroyed homes after it was washed ashore by strong waves caused by Super Typhoon Haiyan, in Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines on Sunday, Nov. 10, 2013. Super Typhoon Haiyan, one of the strongest storms on record, slammed into six central Philippine provinces Friday leaving a wide swath of destruction and hundreds of people dead. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)
There is more bad news for the Philippines as a tropical disturbance brought locally heavy downpours to areas still cut off following the devastation of Haiyan.
This tropical disturbance brought a general 25-75 mm (1-3 inches) if rain to the region, further hindering the recovery efforts and those homeless following the deadly typhoon. Nearly 10 million Filipinos have been affected by the typhoon, the Philippines government said.
Haiyan was so strong that Friday morning, local time, an observation site in Guiuan, Philippines, measured the sustained winds at 96 mph, before the site was disabled. South of landfall point, Surigao City recorded over 10 inches of rainfall, much of which fell in under 12 hours.
Roxas City had sustained winds over 70 mph for several hours as Haiyan passed south of city Friday afternoon, local time.
Other areas were hit even harder, but due to power outages, no observations were reported in the direct path of Haiyan.
This satellite image of Haiyan, courtesy of NOAA, was taken Saturday morning, local time.
At its peak, the winds of Haiyan were equivalent to peak winds of the infamous Typhoon Tip, which was known for having the lowest sea-level pressure ever observed on Earth and its massive size.
An aerial image taken from a Philippine Air Force helicopter shows the devastation of the first landfall by typhoon Haiyan in Guiuan, on Monday, Nov. 11, 2013. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez)
 @emilitasenorita tweeted: "Sending positive vibes to the South Pacific, where my dad is currently braving Typhoon Haiyan aboard his catamaran."
Additional Relevant Tweets and Social Media Reaction

Haiyan topped Utor as the strongest typhoon to hit the Philippines this year and could end up the strongest cyclone ever at landfall after further analysis of the typhoon becomes available.
"Three other cyclones [Nari, Utor and Krosa] have crossed the Philippines at typhoon strength so far this year. All three tracked across Luzon, while Haiyan crossed through the central Philippines," stated Wanenchak.
Widespread torrential rain and destructive winds accompanied Haiyan through the central Philippines, leaving a trail of destruction and triggering life-threatening flash floods.
72-Hour Rain Totals as of 06z (1 a.m. EST / 2 p.m. PHT)

CityRainfall Amount

Surigao City11.10 inches

Maasin City7.10 inches

Tayabas City6.86 inches

Alabat6.42 inches

Puerto Princesa5.54 inches

Tanay4.74 inches

Roxas City4.57 inches


RELATED: Haiyan-Ravaged Philippines Face Another Tropical ThreatHow Typhoon Haiyan Became Year's Most Intense StormDetailed Forecast for Manila
Unfortunately areas that were devastated by a powerful 7.1-magnitude earthquake less than a month ago, were directly in the path of Haiyan on Friday.
The U.S. Department of Defense said it directed its Pacific Command to send search and rescue and other resources to the damaged areas..
After slamming the Philippines, the storm targeted Vietnam and China, where more than 20 people were killed.
A child plays among debris in Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines on Sunday, Nov. 10, 2013. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez)
AccuWeather.com Meteorologists Alan Reppert, Kristina Pydynowski, Mike Doll, Dave Samuhel and Courtney Spamer contributed to this story.





Weather News >


report a typo



















































Comments

Comments left here should adhere to the AccuWeather.com Community Guidelines. Profanity, personal attacks, and spam will not be tolerated.























More Weather News

 

Pre-Blizzard Snow to Reach Pittsburgh, NYC by Monday
January 25, 2015; 11:56 AM ET
Prior to a blizzard slamming the Northeast Monday night through Tuesday, less intense but yet still disruptive snow will streak from Midwest to the mid-Atlantic through Monday.




 

Winter Safety: Four Dangerous Driving Myths Debunked
January 25, 2015; 11:37 AM ET
Motorists should steer clear of these four myths to stay safe during the worst winter weather.




 

Next Storm to Slam into Nova Scotia, Atlantic Canada
January 25, 2015; 11:25 AM ET
For Atlantic Canada, yet another Winter Storm is hot on the previous storm's heals.




 

Tuesday Blizzard to Bring NYC, Boston to a Standstill
January 25, 2015; 11:23 AM ET
A major winter storm will unfold across the Northeast early this week, eventually becoming an all-out blizzard over parts of New England and the New York City area.




 

Utah Proposes Winter Wood Burning Ban to Improve Air Quality
January 25, 2015; 11:17 AM ET
In an effort to improve air quality across Utah during the winter season, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) has proposed a seasonal wood burn ban, much to the chagrin of many locals.




 

DeflateGate: Can Weather Deflate Footballs?
January 25, 2015; 11:12 AM ET
The New England Patriots are the target of an NFL investigation involving allegedly under-inflated footballs used during Sunday's rainy AFC Championship game against the Indianapolis Colts.





news Home >
















 








Close


Loading...


















 








           Daily U.S. Extremes past 24 hours         Extreme Location     High N/A    Low N/A    Precip N/A               






















           WeatherWhys®     
            

           This Day In Weather History   Richmond, VA (1940)                Minus 6 degrees -- first day of cold wave
on record. Temperatures fell below zero
for six consecutive days. All record lows.
                
Amarillo, TX (1965)                75 mph winds sent dust to 31,000 feet
in a bad dust storm.
                
Gulf of Alaska (1983)                Massive low in the Gulf of Alaska -- central
pressure 940 mb...27.80" HG.
                
          
























           Rough Weather    Today's Worst Weather World Hot Spot                  

















 






























































MinuteCast London
MinuteCast Outer Banks
MinuteCast Lake Placid
MinuteCast Augusta
AccuWeather for Android
AccuWeather's Superior Accuracy
Free Weather For Your Site
Forensic Weather
AccuWeather for Windows Phone
AccuWeather Premium
AccuWeather Professional
SkyGuard Warnings
AccuWeather for iPhone
Weather Data Portal





















AccuWeather.com






















            Custom Search
            





Company
About Us
Advertise With Us
Self-Serve Advertising
Careers
Press
Contact Us




Enterprise Solutions
Media
Manufacturing
Retail
Finance & Banking
Energy
Forensic Weather Experts
All Enterprise Solutions




Subscription Services
AccuWeather Premium
AccuWeather Professional
AccuWeather RadarPlus
Lightning Plus




Partners





 © 2015 AccuWeather, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
        AccuWeather.com is a registered trademark of AccuWeather, Inc.
Terms of usage under which this service is provided
Privacy Statement | Ad Choices 


Apps & Downloads
Like Us
Follow Us
Watch Us








































 

















