  Philippines Braces for Super Typhoon - Indonesia Real Time - WSJ
  Philippines Braces for Super Typhoon - Indonesia Real Time - WSJ













WSJ

WSJ
Facebook
Twitter

 
 


MarketWatch

MarketWatch



Barrons

Barrons





Product X

Product X









djx


rt


f


r&c


pe&vc


wsj


b






The Shops

The Shops



More


New Portfolio


Big Charts


Virtual Stock Exchange


WSJ Asia

WSJ India 

								  

WSJ China 

									  chinese edition


WSJ Japan 

									  japanese edition





WSJ Europe


WSJ Americas

en Español 

								  

em Português

								  




WSJ Radio


WSJ Wine









					SEARCH
				











		
			
			
			
				
					
						
							headline
						
						
							
							goldman
							
						
					
				
				
					
						
							Companies
						
						
							
							
								GOLD
							
							
								Ran
								gold Resources Ltd. ADS
							
							
								U.S.
							
							
						
					
				
			
			
				
					
						View All Search Results »
					
				
			
			
			
		
	




 

The Wall Street Journal





Welcome, 
Logout


My Account
My Journal
Help
Message Center ( new)






Log In
Register
Subscribe Now











U.S. Edition



                            WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:
                        




                                        U.S.
                                         




                                        Asia
                                         




                                                India
                                                 




                                                China  
 






                                        Europe
                                         




                                    	Americas
                                    



                                                en Español
                                                 




                                                em Português
                                                 











Login/Register to set your edition
                        		





Set my edition








Today's Paper

Video
Columns
Blogs
Topics
Journal Community




Register for FREE


Register for FREE


Thank you for registering.
We sent an email to: 
Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration


 


Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.

An account already exists for the email address entered.
Forgot your username or password?


This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.


The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username


The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.







First Name





Last Name




Email Address





Create a User Name




Create a Password





Confirm Password

  


Send me information about more WSJ features


Create a profile for me in the Journal Community



 

 

Why Register?
Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions

As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:

Setup and manage your portfolio
Personalize your own news page
Receive and manage newsletters


 
 
 
 
 

Log In

Log In



User Name



Password



Log in



Remember me
Forgot your password?


























Airline disasters
Quick Answers About Altitude, Weather in Shadow of AirAsia Crash


Airline disasters
Increased Oversight Forces Delays at Surabaya Airport
 
SportsEnvironment & HealthEconomy & BusinessPoliticsLifestyle & CulturePeople  Change Language:       English           Bahasa     Bahasa   
Hot Topics:
Property

Wealth

Singapore

Indonesia

Food Fridays

Myanmar

Corruption
 












                  SGTNov 6, 2013        

Asia 

          Philippines Braces for Super Typhoon        






Article


Comments (3)





FeaturedPhilippinestyphoonsweather disturbances 

















By Cris Larano and Josephine Cuneta
MANILA — Philippine disaster officials have hoisted the highest warning alert level over a “super typhoon” that could directly hit the central part of the Southeast Asian country on Friday, including areas recently devastated by a massive earthquake.



European Pressphoto Agency
A passenger jeep maneuvers on a flooded road in the town of San Ildefonso, Bulacan province, in the Philippines, on Oct. 12, showing the impact of Typhoon Nari. A new typhoon is on its way to the Philippines.


Glaiza Escullar, a forecaster of the weather bureau Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration, said that Haiyan–which will be called Yolanda once it enters Philippine waters early Thursday–is already packing central winds of 150 kilometers per hour. It could strengthen as it hovers above the Pacific Ocean, picking up more moisture and heat that adds to its intensity.Advertisement
“It is expected to make landfall in the Samar-Leyte area around noon Friday and exit the country on Sunday,” said Ms. Esculiar. She said the Haiyan now has a diameter of 600 kilometers and could dump around 30 millimeters of rain an hour near its center, potentially causing floods as well as landslides, particularly in the central province of Bohol that was the worst hit by a 7.2-magnitude earthquake last month.
Government agencies, including local units in areas that potentially will be hit by the Typhoon Haiyan, have been ordered to prepare supplies and equipment, Reynaldo Balido, spokesman for the National Disaster and Risk Reduction Management Council, told The Wall Street Journal. Local officials will decide whether to preemptively evacuate areas in the storm’s path.
The current weather forecast suggest the storm could head to Vietnam after passing through the Philippines.
The Hawaii-based Joint Typhoon Warning Center is calling Haiyan a “super typhoon,” estimating the weather disturbance’s maximum sustained winds at 130 knots–around 241 kilometers per hour–or the equivalent of a strong Category 4 storm. The Hawaii warning center’s 36-hour forecast suggests that Haiyan’s center winds around 267 kilometers per hour, with gusts of 324 kilometers an hour.
The Japan Meteorological Agency is classifying Haiyan’s intensity when it makes landfall Friday as “violent.” Center winds of around 195 kilometers per hour are predicted, and gusts of around 278 kilometers an hour.
Ms. Escullar said typhoons that form around this time of the year usually make landfall in the Philippines because of the Siberian High, the prevailing high pressure system over Asia during the winter months. Unlike the Hawaii-based typhoon center, the Philippine bureau doesn’t use a super typhoon label. Instead, it categorizes a typhoon with winds of over 185 kilometers an hour under signal 4, the strongest public storm warning in the Philippines, Ms. Escullar said.
If it maintains its strength, Haiyan will be the second super typhoon to make landfall this year. Super Typhoon Usagi made landfall in the northern part of the Philippines in September.
Weather forecasters said Haiyan could be stronger than Typhoon Bopha, whose center winds of 175 kilometers per hour devastated a large part of the southern region of Mindanao last December, killing more than 300 people. In December 2011, flash floods unleashed by Tropical Storm Washi killed more than 1,200 people, also in Mindanao.
Rey Gozon, the Philippine disaster council’s director for Region 8, which includes the provinces of Samar and Leyte, said the regional council met Tuesday to prepare for Haiyan and emergency teams are ready for deployment. He said the disaster council will secure reports late Wednesday on whether pre-emptive evacuations are being undertaken to avoid casualties.
 
For the latest news and analysis, follow @WSJAsia 
 





FeaturedPhilippinestyphoonsweather disturbances 



previousVietnam’s Nuclear Energy Plan Likely Part of Russia Talks 

nextWhat You Said: Same-Sex Marriage in Vietnam 



Indonesia Real Time HOME PAGE 


 Add a Comment  Error message        Name   We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines. Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.           Comment         Comments (3 of 3) View all Comments »       5:36 am November 8, 2013  alaska19682 wrote:              I am headed there soon myself and yes Cavite will get hit pretty hard.
         5:22 am November 8, 2013  Donnyboy65 wrote:              We all have a girlfriend in the Philippines that we are worried about
         3:06 am November 8, 2013  Papabear wrote:              I'm worried about my girlfriend..she lived in Cavite...will the typhoon hit there hard as well?
     






previousVietnam’s Nuclear Energy Plan Likely Part of Russia Talks 

nextWhat You Said: Same-Sex Marriage in Vietnam 



 


About Southeast Asia Real Time

RSS



Indonesia Real Time provides analysis and insight into the region, which includes Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos and Brunei. Contact the editors at SEAsia@wsj.com.



Indonesia Real Time on Twitter


 Indonesia Real Time on Facebook




  Featured   previous pause next    Direct Local Elections to Return, With Some Stipulations Indonesia’s parliament voted unanimously to reinstate direct elections months after the previous round of lawmakers voted to scrap them. Now, it will start hashing out revisions.   Sebangsa Puts an Indonesian Spin on Social Media A team of some of the savviest technophiles in Indonesia are trying to build the concept of social government in their country – and they’re doing it with a tool some are calling the Indonesian Facebook.   Preliminary Findings in AirAsia Investigation Expected Within Weeks Indonesian investigators will publish preliminary findings in the investigation of last month’s AirAsia jet crash by Jan. 28, an official has said.   Indonesia AirAsia X Flight Cancellation Angers Australian Tourists An airline’s inaugural flight is typically an occasion to celebrate, but instead of happy flyers, the fledgling airline was left fending criticism and forced to offer refunds.   How Indonesia's Record on Executions Stacks Up Globally, Indonesia executes fewer people than places such as Iran, the United States and even Japan.  Most RecentArticlesComments
1.
Grammy Award Winner to Play Indian-Style Guitar in Jakarta


2.
Indonesian Park Is Safe Home for Threatened Animals


3.
Roads in Jakarta in Traffic Snarls After Heavy Rain


4.
Food Fridays: Slam a Sandwich at Pasar Santa


5.
Indonesian Agency Tells People to Brace for Flooding in Jakarta


1.
Sunny

Indonesia AirAsia X Flight Cancellation Angers Australian Tourists		
1 Comment



2.
Jim

Australia Presses Indonesia Over Drug Smugglers Facing Execution		
7 Comments



3.
Geoffrey

AirAsia Chief Sends a Message of Thanks		
1 Comment



4.
JOHN JOHN

Petition Highlights Opposition to Jokowi’s Choice of Police Chief		
1 Comment



5.
Lina

Food Fridays: The Spice of Life Is at Bu Rudy’s in Surabaya		
2 Comments


  









WSJ Web Slice
CONTENT
LINKS TO ACTUAL PAGE CONTAINING WEB SLICE FUNCTIONALITY.

15





Wall Street Journal
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
FourSquare
Google+
YouTube
Podcasts
RSS Feed
AppStore


Subscribe
/Login 


Back to Top«




Customer Service

Customer Center
New! Live Help

Contact Us
WSJ Weekend
Contact Directory
Corrections



Policy

Privacy Policy
 Cookie Policy
Data Policy
Copyright Policy
Subscriber Agreement& Terms of Use
Your Ad Choices



Advertise

Advertise
Place a Classified Ad
Sell Your Home
Sell Your Business
Commercial Real Estate Ads
Recruitment & Career Ads
Franchising
Advertise Locally



Tools & Features

Apps
Emails & Alerts

Graphics
Columns
Topics
Guides
Portfolio
Old Portfolio



More

Why Subscribe
Register for Free
Reprints

Content Partnerships
Conferences

Price & Volume
Keyword & Symbol
News Archive
Jobs at WSJ







Copyright ©2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
















close

Email This







								Recipient's Email Address (Separate multiple address with commas)






								Your Email Address
							




								Message (Optional)






								Send me a copy
							






or Cancel












close

Thank You
Your email has been sent.









close

Error.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
			  	Please try again.
			  	





• Invalid email address.
• You can't enter more than 20 emails.
• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.
• Must enter an email address.
• You must enter the verification code below to send.
• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.







          
















