France climate chief admits Lima talks may not deliver clear result
France climate chief admits Lima talks may not deliver clear result








Climate Change News

Home
Policy
Business
Technology
Energy
Transport
Living
Nature
Research
RTCC+

COP20
COP19
COP18
COP17
Comment & Analysis
IPCC/AR5
New York climate summit
Press releases



Climate Change TV
Respond Magazines
COP20 news
Blog
Guide
Calendar
Awards
Partners
About us
Contact us





RTCC on Facebook
Tweet RTCC
Add RTCC on Google+
RSS Feeds











news
videos












Toggle navigation





RTCC





















 

 

Subscribe to our weekly newsletter



Submit



 




Most read
Latest
Recommended



1UN climate chief: Carbon bubble is now a reality20 January
2Al Gore warns oil chiefs against climate denial21 January
3India’s Modi calls for “paradigm shift” on climate19 January
4How climate change is making its mark on the world – pictures5 January
5Seven stairs to Paris: A pathway to fixing climate change19 January
6Costing the climate: Four ways to price carbon19 January
7Coal lobby plays down divestment fears20 January
8Meet the unlikely climate allies bridging divides in UN talks20 January
9Antarctic sea ice reaches record high, as Arctic hits 2014 minimum22 September
10Oil majors face climate grilling at World Economic Forum16 January
11Climate change threatens staple potato crop in high Andes20 January
12Sea level rise faster than feared, say scientists22 January
13President Obama’s 2015 State of the Union – reimagined19 January
14Global warming raises tensions in Boko Haram region16 January
15US demand for gasoline soars as price falls21 January 



 

Arctic still profitable despite $50 oil – Statoil
23 January




 

Ban Ki-moon: Lack of focus on green investment “troubling”
23 January




 

Hollande calls for global “solidarity” in fight against climate change
23 January




 

Doomsday clock: climate and nuclear arsenals push disaster closer
23 January




 

UN ready to receive national climate plans for 2015 deal
23 January




 

Modi to seek US backing for India clean energy development
23 January




 

Queenslanders urged to ‘vote for the reef’ not coal
22 January




 

Climate still seen as niche issue at World Economic Forum
22 January




 

European lawmakers fail to approve carbon market reforms
22 January




 

State Department asks Disney for climate change Frozen spin-off
22 January




 

Sea level rise faster than feared, say scientists
22 January




 

US Senate agrees climate change is not a hoax, but split on causes
22 January




 

Fate of EU carbon market hangs in the balance
21 January




 

Oil chiefs hold Davos meeting to debate climate strategy
21 January




 

New Atlantis: Immersive theatre lays bare climate dilemmas
21 January












France climate chief admits Lima talks may not deliver clear result
Last updated on 11 December 2014, 4:00 pm



Hosts of Paris summit start to flex muscles behind scenes, as hopes of clear outcome in Peru fade
(UN Photo/Rick Bajornas)
By Ed King in Lima
France’s diplomatic machinery is starting to ramp up the gears, 12 months before countries are scheduled to sign off a UN climate deal in Paris.
Since arriving in Lima this week foreign minister Laurent Fabius and ambassador to the climate negotiations Laurence Tubiana have been engaged in a hectic round of meetings with countries they deem to key to a global agreement.
On Wednesday morning Tubiana, a climate negotiations veteran, was introducing Fabius to series of delegations and civil society leaders on the sidelines of the summit.
The pair – part of a huge French delegation here – also met ministers from India and Ethiopia, two critical players in the mosaic of 192 countries who will have to agree on a climate deal next year.
Avec @PrakashJavdekar, ministre de l’Environnement indien @LimaCop20 #COP20Lima #Inde pic.twitter.com/hhY336jjt6
— Laurent Fabius (@LaurentFabius) December 10, 2014
More meetings are planned on Thursday. It’s likely Fabius will discuss the talks with US secretary of state John Kerry, in Lima for a brief if significant visit.
At the moment Peru is running the show, but come the next significant UN meeting in February that will change, when the French step out from the shadows.
The question this week is what challenge will they be facing in early 2015. Will there be the basis of an agreement on the table, or will there instead be a giant raft of proposals but little clarity?
Speaking at an event on the sidelines the talks on Wednesday, Tubiana said she was being “pragmatic” when assessing progress in Peru.
“Some issues will not be resolved here, but it’s fair enough, if they are too big it’s about changing the real ambition of the whole world. But we can have clarity,” she said.
“On the elements text I think we will have a draft, and I think it will be reasonable enough so we can negotiate effectively on February 8.”
The “elements” text she referred to is the basis for the 2015 deal, a rapidly expanding document released on December 8, outlining a series of options that could form the basis of an agreement.
Speaking to reporters lead US negotiator Todd Stern said work on this package was “basically done”, but stressed discussions over what types of commitments could be in a global deal are ongoing.
‘Berlin wall’
These nationally determined contributions to the 2015 deal, Tubiana admitted, are likely to be a headache that lasts beyond this meeting.
In the past countries were split between Annex I (developed) or non-Annex I (developing) but the text for a new agreement stipulates that unlike the Kyoto Protocol all countries must adopt commitments, not just the rich.
The deal being discussed would hold developed countries to account for historical emissions but also place carbon controls on emerging economies.
The problem for negotiators this week is working out what exactly replaces that clear cut division. A coalition led by Venezuela, India, Saudi Arabia and China wants the original split to remain intact.
Others, including the EU, US and a Latin American alliance of Chile, Costa Rica and Colombia say it’s time to acknowledge that the world has moved on since the annexes were created in 1992.
EU Energy and Climate Commissioner Miguel Arias Cañete, who is in close contact with the French, expanded on these theme. Some countries were “reverting to type” he told reporters.
“Of course we have to push as hard as we can to have clarity,” said Tubiana. “Maybe differentiation is too difficult a problem to be solved here.”
Rocky pathway
Clear thinking may be harder to come by as Paris approaches and the pressure mounts. The scale of the challenge facing the French is huge.
“We’re talking about a deep transformation in the 21st century, we’re not talking about papering around the margins,” said Jeffrey Sachs, an economist and climate specialist at Columbia university.
The French plan for the talks involves four main “pillars”, according to an observer close to the delegation.
These are a tough legal framework, clear commitment rules, a radical shift towards green investments and a space for business and civil society to participate.
Planning started over a year ago, but according to Yvo de Boer, UN climate chief at the ill-fated Copenhagen summit, the main challenge for France is not to set an ambitious agenda, but to radically simplify the agreement on offer.
In the snows of Denmark in 2009, delegates were faced with a set of proposals a UK diplomat describes as large as a “bible”. For de Boer, a text that won’t kill someone if you dropped it on their head is a must.
“We’re now at a stage where there is a negotiating text on the table, where everyone is tipping their ideas into the text,” he said.
“It will get longer every second the clock ticks, and the risk is you leave this conference with a document that is several hundred pages long.
“The main challenge for the French is – in a long document – to identify the four or five key issues that politicians will really need to focus on in order to unblock the logjam.”
That will require careful diplomacy and a little courage. The signs are in Lima that the French are frantically working their backroom contacts, keen to steer clear of the acrimonious talks taking place at more public forums.
Yesterday Fabius reiterated his plea for more “urgency” in a meeting with fellow ministers.
It was delivered in his usual smooth style, which insiders say is unlikely to change much as the talks heat up.
And both he and Tubiana seem determined to learn from their Peruvian hosts, who, notwithstanding trouble within the talks, have managed to create a remarkably happy atmosphere – a far cry from the last two meetings in Warsaw (2013) and Doha (2012).
“The way that the presidency is working will be a big achievement. For us it’s reassuring this process is so well managed,” she said.




Read more on: 
COP20 | Featured | France

















Related News
Ban Ki-moon optimistic Lima summit can deliver climate deal
France and India pledge to cooperate at UN climate talks
Peru UN climate talks chair admits time running out for deal
Lima summit can deliver on adaptation and forests, says Peru climate chief









                      RTCC comment policy
                    





×Close
RTCC Comment Policy


All comments are moderated before they appear on the website. This means there may be a delay between posting a message and it appearing.
Stay on-topic: please stick to the subject of the article you are commenting on. Off-topic comments will be removed. Comments which contain links to inappropriate, irrelevant or commercial sites are also likely to be deleted.
If you are citing sources please provide a link, ideally to an original and relevant source. Not doing this might mean your comment gets edited or deleted.
Be polite: comments which contain swearing or which abuse other participants in the debate will be deleted. 
No personal attacks: vigorous debate is fine, but not ad hominem attacks or accusations.


Close












Media Partners






 


Privacy Policy | 
    Terms and Conditions


    © RTCC - Responding to Climate Change 2015.
  





Climate Change TV


































 COP20: Rachel Kyte, World Bank
 COP20: Edna Molewa, Department of Enviromental Affairs (South Africa)
 COP20: Harry Verhaar, Philips
 COP20: Manuel Pulgar Vidal, President of COP 20
 COP20: Bianca Jagger, Human Rights Foundation
 More video






 
Comment & Analysis 


 

Modi to seek US backing for India clean energy development




 

US demand for gasoline soars as price falls




 

Seven stairs to Paris: A pathway to fixing climate change




 

Costing the climate: Four ways to price carbon




 

From buckets to beehives: how scientists collect climate data



Tweets by @RTCCclimatenews

 
Partner updates & events 


Climate Investment Funds Invites Private Sector Observer Nominations
16 October




Green Bonds: engaging investors for the climate
19 September




Record Funding for the Global Environment Facility
17 April


 
Company Spotlight 
















