No Lima deal better than bad one, say 'like minded' countries
No Lima deal better than bad one, say 'like minded' countries








Climate Change News

Home
Policy
Business
Technology
Energy
Transport
Living
Nature
Research
RTCC+

COP20
COP19
COP18
COP17
Comment & Analysis
IPCC/AR5
New York climate summit
Press releases



Climate Change TV
Respond Magazines
COP20 news
Blog
Guide
Calendar
Awards
Partners
About us
Contact us





RTCC on Facebook
Tweet RTCC
Add RTCC on Google+
RSS Feeds











news
videos












Toggle navigation





RTCC





















 

 

Subscribe to our weekly newsletter



Submit



 




Most read
Latest
Recommended



1UN climate chief: Carbon bubble is now a reality20 January
2Al Gore warns oil chiefs against climate denial21 January
3India’s Modi calls for “paradigm shift” on climate19 January
4How climate change is making its mark on the world – pictures5 January
5Seven stairs to Paris: A pathway to fixing climate change19 January
6Costing the climate: Four ways to price carbon19 January
7Coal lobby plays down divestment fears20 January
8Meet the unlikely climate allies bridging divides in UN talks20 January
9Antarctic sea ice reaches record high, as Arctic hits 2014 minimum22 September
10Oil majors face climate grilling at World Economic Forum16 January
11Climate change threatens staple potato crop in high Andes20 January
12Sea level rise faster than feared, say scientists22 January
13President Obama’s 2015 State of the Union – reimagined19 January
14Global warming raises tensions in Boko Haram region16 January
15US demand for gasoline soars as price falls21 January 



 

Arctic still profitable despite $50 oil – Statoil
23 January




 

Ban Ki-moon: Lack of focus on green investment “troubling”
23 January




 

Hollande calls for global “solidarity” in fight against climate change
23 January




 

Doomsday clock: climate and nuclear arsenals push disaster closer
23 January




 

UN ready to receive national climate plans for 2015 deal
23 January




 

Modi to seek US backing for India clean energy development
23 January




 

Queenslanders urged to ‘vote for the reef’ not coal
22 January




 

Climate still seen as niche issue at World Economic Forum
22 January




 

European lawmakers fail to approve carbon market reforms
22 January




 

State Department asks Disney for climate change Frozen spin-off
22 January




 

Sea level rise faster than feared, say scientists
22 January




 

US Senate agrees climate change is not a hoax, but split on causes
22 January




 

Fate of EU carbon market hangs in the balance
21 January




 

Oil chiefs hold Davos meeting to debate climate strategy
21 January




 

New Atlantis: Immersive theatre lays bare climate dilemmas
21 January












No Lima climate deal better than bad one, say ‘like minded’ countries
Last updated on 12 December 2014, 4:07 pm



Coalition including Venezuela, Iran, Saudi Arabia and India say talks could resume in early 2015
Pic: IISD/ENB
By Ed King in Lima
An influential coalition of countries participating in the UN climate talks have indicated they would be prepared for an agreement to be postponed until early 2015, according to a leaked document. 
Negotiations in Lima are aimed at providing a set of guidelines for countries aiming to participate in a global emissions reduction deal, scheduled to be signed in Paris next December.
A set of briefing notes sent to RTCC suggests the like minded development group of countries, which includes Venezuela, Iran, Saudi Arabia and India, told Peru’s environment minister Manuel Pulgar Vidal they could not accept proposals currently on the table.
“If in the end, no consensus can be reached in time, it is possible to transmit the relevant documents for further work to the next meeting  We do not consider this a failure at all.  Instead, it is a mark of progress, especially progress in the process,” the note says.
Late on Thursday a new text for an agreement was released by the UN, which has left many of this group unhappy.
A key bone of contention is the way developed and developing countries are treated differently at these talks.
A new deal would mean all nations have to make a contribution to cutting emissions, as opposed to previous agreements where it was richer nations with more “historical responsibility” for greenhouse gas emissions.
Postponing a decision in Lima would be a major blow to the UN process.
Emerging economies have been asked to submit their contributions by March 2015, while a draft version of the main agreement needs to be ready by May 2015.
Few observers RTCC has spoken to believe the Lima summit will end without some kind of compromise, although one developed country representative said it would be a “miracle” if they ended on Friday.
You can read the full briefing note below.

Our views on Process.
1. We have been happy with the inclusive, transparent manner of last few days in the ADP with proposed changes put on the screen.  Of course this should have been done earlier as LMDC kept telling the Co Chairs since March.  Ideally we should continue with this process.  There is a document with the various views as options.  If time has run out, one option is to send this document for further work at the next meeting of ADP (Geneva Jan 2015).
2. We don’t want a “clean text”  parachuted down on the last day by Co Chairs or Presidency asking Parties to adopt it, on grounds there is no more time.  We also do not want  a “reverse consensus” situation where countries who want to change a word or a para are asked to get consensus to change it.  We also do not want  a repeat of the undignified and undemocratic process of last minute “huddles” where only a few countries who know how to fight for space and how to  invent words on the spot get to make the decision.  Therefore please respect the democratic UN process, even if some members feel that “time has run out.”
3. LMDC has its own views on each paragraph of the ADP draft decision.  We have been putting forward our concrete views on the text, with our own language put on the screen and in the compilation draft.   This is our constructive way of helping with the process.  If you want to convene consultations to help bridge the differences in texts between the Parties, LMDC is willing to join in and to assist you. 
4.  If in the end, no consensus can be reached in time, it is possible to transmit the relevant documents for further work to the next meeting  We do not consider this a failure at all.  Instead, it is a mark of progress, especially progress in the process.  The Lima COP would have restored the open, participatory process of the UN and the multilateral system.  Restoring the democratic process would be a very important achievement and would contribute more than anything else to the success of Paris 2015.  If an undemocratic process is adopted, this would generate further loss of confidence in the system, which would be bad for the remaining process towards Paris.
Our views on Contents
LMDC has certain key positions which must be reflected in any decision or texts. key positions are that: 
1.The national contributions (INDCs) must contain all elements (mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology etc) in a balanced way, just as the Paris agreement has to have all elements.  It cannot be mitigation-centric.
2.We cannot accept new terms and concepts that have not been agreed to and that have appeared in the draft decision, such as “evolving CBDR”,  “countries with the greatest responsibilities”, “countries in a position to do so.”  These terms in fact change or reinterpret what is in the Convention, and there is no agreement what they mean.
3. The draft decision has many paragraphs relating to an ex-ante assessment process such as placing INDCs on internet and requiring countries to reply to questions, and holding forums etc. to ratchet up the mitigation goals.  At the same time there is no assessment on contributions in finance.  It is unfair to ask developing countries to jack up their mitigation goals without a corresponding assessment and jacking up of finance  goals.   We are thus against  any ex ante assessment in the Decision.  Any assessment process that may be discussed in future has to be preceeded by agreement on what is the methodology, modalities and definitions of what is to be assessed. Any assessment process has to be after the Copenhagen agreement is concluded.
4. Since INDCs in mitigation are given an early deadline (March or May 2015), there should be a corresponding deadline for INDCs in financial contributions.  The present draft gives a 2019 deadline for finance which is totally unacceptable.  By March or May 2015, developed countries have to give their intended finance contribution. Moreover, there should be a clear roadmap on finance between now and 2020, such as $40 billion in year X,  $60 billion in year Y, towa5rds $100 billion in year 2020.
5. INCDs, like the Paris agreement, has to be in line with principles and provisions of Convention especially equity and CBDR.  This should be operationalized by (1) differentiated obligations between developed and developing countries in their “contributions” in mitigation (economy wide reductions for annex 1 and diverse mitigation actions backed by finance and technology transfers.   (2) Also, developed countries should meet their finance and technology commitments.




Read more on: 
COP20

















Related News
Lima climate talks into overtime, delegates hopeful deal can be struck
4 issues to resolve before gavel falls on UN climate deal
Late Night Lima – envoys battle to contain expanding climate deal
UN plans for 2015 climate deal favour rich, say developing countries









                      RTCC comment policy
                    





×Close
RTCC Comment Policy


All comments are moderated before they appear on the website. This means there may be a delay between posting a message and it appearing.
Stay on-topic: please stick to the subject of the article you are commenting on. Off-topic comments will be removed. Comments which contain links to inappropriate, irrelevant or commercial sites are also likely to be deleted.
If you are citing sources please provide a link, ideally to an original and relevant source. Not doing this might mean your comment gets edited or deleted.
Be polite: comments which contain swearing or which abuse other participants in the debate will be deleted. 
No personal attacks: vigorous debate is fine, but not ad hominem attacks or accusations.


Close












Media Partners






 


Privacy Policy | 
    Terms and Conditions


    © RTCC - Responding to Climate Change 2015.
  





Climate Change TV


































 COP20: Rachel Kyte, World Bank
 COP20: Edna Molewa, Department of Enviromental Affairs (South Africa)
 COP20: Harry Verhaar, Philips
 COP20: Manuel Pulgar Vidal, President of COP 20
 COP20: Bianca Jagger, Human Rights Foundation
 More video






 
Comment & Analysis 


 

Modi to seek US backing for India clean energy development




 

US demand for gasoline soars as price falls




 

Seven stairs to Paris: A pathway to fixing climate change




 

Costing the climate: Four ways to price carbon




 

From buckets to beehives: how scientists collect climate data



Tweets by @RTCCclimatenews

 
Partner updates & events 


Climate Investment Funds Invites Private Sector Observer Nominations
16 October




Green Bonds: engaging investors for the climate
19 September




Record Funding for the Global Environment Facility
17 April


 
Company Spotlight 
















