Science Shows Up in Force at People's Climate March - Scientific American
Science Shows Up in Force at People's Climate March - Scientific American



ADVERTISEMENT


















Sign In | Register

0




















Subscription Center
Every Issue. Every Year. 1845-Present. 
Save up to 65% when you subscribe today. 
The perfect gift for any holiday or occasion. 


Subscribe to All Access »
Subscribe to Print »
Give a Gift »
View the Latest Issue »















Subscribe


News & Features

Latest Stories
Ask the Experts
Fact or Fiction
Extreme Tech
Features
Forum
In-Depth Reports
Interactive Features
Mind Matters
News
Science Images
Slide shows



Topics

Energy & Sustainability
Evolution
Health
Mind & Brain
Space
Technology
More Science
Biology
Chemistry
Physics
All topics



Blogs

Staff Blogs
MIND Blog Network
From Our Network



Videos & Podcasts

Video
SA's The Countdown
60-Second Science Podcast
60-Second Earth Podcast
60-Second Health Podcast
60-Second Mind Podcast
60-Second Space Podcast
60-Second Tech Podcast
Science Talk Podcast



Education

Science in Action Award
Bring Science Home
Citizen Science
Digital Education Report
Professional Learning
1,000 Scientists in 1,000 Days
Search for Scientists/Educators
Scientist Sign Up
Educator Sign Up
Participant Dashboard
Education Resources



Citizen Science

Whale-Song Project
Solve Innovation Challenges



SA Magazine






Subscribe
Give as a Gift
Buy Single Issues



Inside the Latest Issue

Features
Advances
50, 100 & 150 Years Ago
Anti Gravity
Forum
Graphic Science
The Science Agenda
The Science of Health
Skeptic
TechnoFiles
Recommended
Archive
Special Editions




More from SA:






Classics







Briefings







Mobile








SA Mind






Subscribe
Give as a Gift
Buy Single Issues



SA Mind Home Page
SA Mind Blog Network
Inside the Latest Issue

Features
Head Lines
Ask the Brains
Consciousness Redux
Facts and Fictions in Mental Health
Illusions
Mind in Pictures
Perspectives
We're Only Human
Reviews and Recommendations
Archive
Special Editions





Books

SA/FSG Books
Scientific American eBooks




SA en español



























Energy & Sustainability

»



News






Email


Print







Science Shows Up in Force at People's Climate March


Scientists who do not typically take a policy position make an exception for climate change


September 20, 2014
|By David Biello
















CLIMATE RALLY: The September 21st People's Climate March is expected to surpass the rally against global warming in Copenhagen in 2009, pictured here.
Satu Pitkänen/Greenpeace Finland, 2009




The People's Climate March may end up being the biggest protest to urge action to restrain global warming yet. The march in New York City on September 21 is predicted to draw more than 100,000 people, which would top the tens of thousands who showed up in Copenhagen back in 2009. But how many scientists, whether they study climate change or not, will be there?
 
The idea of the march—first proposed by writer and activist Bill McKibben of 350.org—is intended to remind world leaders gathering in New York City for a United Nations climate summit that people around the world demand action to halt global warming. And action to combat climate change is what many scientists have been calling for since at least the 1970s, in a series of scientific publications and reports, such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change series. "Writing more such articles is not going to change minds," says geologist James Powell of the University of Southern California, who is attending the march and helping to organize scientific involvement. "We need to do something more dramatic." Like many older scientists, Powell says he is doing it for his grandchildren. "I imagine my grandchildren and their children decades in the future asking: 'What did grandpa do?' I want to have an answer."
 
Powell, who was president of both Franklin and Marshall College and Reed College during the apartheid divestment movement, believes that it will take political muscle to force politicians to act. So he partnered with former professional biologist Lucky Tran to help organize Science Stands, which helped attract scientists from across the country and organizations such as the New York Academy of Sciences, which urged member via email to gather at the American Museum of Natural History to participate in the march. "If the most well-informed citizens are not willing to act, what hope do we have of averting climate catastrophe?" asks Pattanun "Ploy" Achakulwisut, a PhD student in atmospheric science. She enlisted other graduate students from Harvard University to join the march, partially with the help of a scientist / superhero poster exhorting scientists to "mobilize march [and] make history."
 
As the world's most famous physicist Albert Einstein is once reputed to have said: "those who have the privilege to know have the duty to act," a sentiment echoed by conservation biologist Jessica Hellman of the University of Notre Dame, who notes that it is also now time to adapt to the climate change already detected and underway.

Such communication to leaders and individuals is vital, according to scientific organizations like the American Geophysical Union. "While AGU is not a sponsor or participant in this particular event, we strongly encourage our member scientists to talk to their communities and their elected leaders about the impacts climate change is already having on their communities and families," says Chris McEntee, executive director of the premier planetary science organization. "Unfortunately, our window for meaningful action won't be open forever."
 
Many branches of science are likely to be represented at the march: climate scientists of course, but also geologists, meteorologists, materials scientists and even engineers. "I'm marching because last Christmas, my hometown of Winchester—the ancient capital of England—saw its worst flooding in at least a quarter of a millennium," says Geoffrey Supran, a PhD candidate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and one of 70 MIT students and faculty attending the march. "We have the technologies to begin to tackle the climate crisis. What we lack is the political will to make it happen."
 
In the lab, Supran has worked on trying to make more efficient photovoltaic cells to convert sunshine to electricity and better light-emitting diodes, or LEDs, to cut down on the amount of electricity needed to produce lighting. Such technologies can help reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. That effort may include using more solar, wind, geothermal, hydropower and/or nuclear power, as well as placing a price on the CO2 pollution from burning fossil fuels. Many economists believe such a switch to renewable sources of energy can contribute to a stronger economy and better human lives rather than slow such growth. And the infrastructure decisions made in the next 15 years or so will determine levels of greenhouse gas pollution for the remainder of the century. At the same time, technologies to pull CO2 back out of the atmosphere may prove vital since atmospheric concentrations are nearing 400 parts-per-million—and rising.
 
Scientists have not traditionally expressed policy preferences, preferring to maintain a stance of impartiality. Such dispassion, neutrality and objectivity will remain fundamental to the scientific method. At the same time, says Powell, "we have detected a threat, the greatest threat ever detected in human history." Sea level rise alone could force mass migration inland here in the U.S. in coming centuries, he says. "At this point we need to abandon our reticence and speak out forcefully, and just speaking may not be enough."
 
That's because the threat is large. As a geologist, Powell notes that by burning fossil fuels humans have sped up geologic processes like climate change more than 1000-fold. Whereas the Earth cooled or warmed over centuries or millennia in the past, it is now warming over the course of decades and even years. A new record for total CO2 pollution was set in 2013—including the fastest rate of CO2 pollution growth—and is likely to be broken again this year.
 
Or, as paleoclimatologist Peter deMenocal of Columbia University puts it: the "modern climate is exceptionally warm relative to the last millennium, and future decades will be another world, unlike anything modern civilization has ever seen. This is a really sobering fact."
 
So he will be joining the march along with Columbia colleagues and his twin 8-year-old girls. "It's important they witness that a lot of people care about this issue and are willing to do something about it," he says. "This is about their future."
 






 Rights & Permissions





Share this Article:













Comments


Oldest - Newest
Newest - Oldest




New Comment
You must sign in or register as a ScientificAmerican.com member to submit a comment.
















More from Scientific American

























ADVERTISEMENT









Latest News


Most Read






Warped Brain Lobes Could Underlie Depression Symptoms






Doomsday Clock Set at 3 Minutes to Midnight






Duck-Billed Dinos Gave T. rex a Run for Its Money






Readers Respond to "A Beacon from the Big Bang"






Ask the Experts: How Do Amateur Astronomers Discover Comets?








How to Build a Better Learner - Scientific American







Discovery: Fish Live Beneath Antarctica - Scientific American







Doomsday Clock Set at 3 Minutes to Midnight - Scientific American







Do People Only Use 10 Percent of Their Brains? - Scientific American







How Has Stephen Hawking Lived Past 70 with ALS? - Scientific American









Follow Us:





























See what we're tweeting about
Scientific American Contributors



 debbieponchner Imágenes del telescopio #Herschel esclarecen la estructura del sistema planetario de Tau Ceti.
http://t.co/6yOGsieplE http://t.co/cC9l0Kgjgh
49 minutes ago · reply · retweet · favorite


 sciamblogs The physics of #DeflateGate, science in the #SOTU, hydrophobic metals & more—@JenLucPiquant's Physics Week in Review: http://t.co/mKDSSD9BXT
57 minutes ago · reply · retweet · favorite


 CBrainard The physics of #DeflateGate, science in the #SOTU, hydrophobic metals & more—@JenLucPiquant's Physics Week in Review: http://t.co/rpscZ7BKxo
57 minutes ago · reply · retweet · favorite

More »




Solve Innovation Challenges


Whole You™ Healthcare Innovations:  Re-imagining Eye and Vision Care Services to Optimize Health & Well-being.


Deadline: Feb 14 2015 
Reward: $15,000 USD

 The more you experience, the more you enjoy life. Health issues can arise, but you should still be free to squeeze all the joy, exci


DARPA Forecasting Chikungunya Challenge


Deadline: Feb 16 2015 
Reward: See Details

 DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) seeks methods to accurately forecast the spread of 


More Challenges »
Powered By: 

ADVERTISEMENT



Latest from SA Blog Network


Did Edgar Allan Poe Foresee Modern Physics and Cosmology?

|January 24, 2015



Physics Week in Review: January 24, 2015

|January 24, 2015



Rooftop Solar Increases a Home's Selling Price Across Multiple Markets

|January 23, 2015



Inspiring Young Men from Minority Backgrounds to Code

|January 23, 2015



Weekend To Do: Apply for paid Summer Research Programs in STEM

The Urban Scientist|January 23, 2015





News From Our Partners



Just 5 Ebola Cases Left in Liberia, Government Says



Attempts to Predict Terrorist Attacks Hit Limits



Doomsday Clock Set at 3 Minutes to Midnight



Keystone XL Pipeline May Force Republicans to Embrace Climate Change




ADVERTISEMENT




ADVERTISEMENT



Science Jobs of the Week


Night Hematology Technician - Melville, NY
Opus Scientific



Night Hematology Supervisor – Melville, NY
Opus Scientific



Translational Scientist – Melville, NY
Opus Scientific



More jobs from Naturejobs.com »








YES! Send me a free issue of Scientific American with no obligation to continue the subscription. If I like it, I will be billed for the one-year subscription.

Subscribe Now



Scientific American is a trademark of Scientific American, Inc., used with permission

© 2015 Scientific American, a Division of Nature America, Inc.

View Mobile Site
All Rights Reserved.



Advertise
Special Ad Sections
SA Custom Media and Partnerships
Science Jobs
Partner Network
International Editions
Travel


About Scientific American
Press Room
Site Map
Terms of Use 
Privacy Policy
Use of Cookies

Subscribe
Renew Your Print Subscription
Print Subscriber Customer Service
Buy Back Issues
FAQs
Contact Us











Scientific American Mind Digital


Get 6 bi-monthly digital issues+ 1yr of archive access for just $9.99


Hurry this offer ends soon! > 

X




Email this Article







Your Name



Your Email Address



Recipient's Email Address (separate multiple addresses with a comma)



Comment (optional)





X

























Next Article











