Sunday's Climate Protest Could Be a Turning Point on Global Warming
Sunday's Climate Protest Could Be a Turning Point on Global Warming

Mashable





We're using cookies to improve your experience.
Click Here to find out more.






Mashable

Mashable Australia
Mashable UK

Sign in






Like

Follow @mashable








see more  >



Search









Must Reads
Social Media
Tech
Business
Entertainment
World
Watercooler

More


Channels
Must Reads
Social Media
Tech
Business
Entertainment
World
Watercooler
CompanyAbout UsLicensing & ReprintsArchiveMashable Careers
ContactContact UsSubmit News
AdvertiseAdvertise
LegalPrivacy PolicyTerms of UseCookie Policy
AppsiPhone / iPadAndroid
ResourcesSubscriptions
SitesJobsEventsSocial Good SummitMedia Summit












World


Like
Follow
















Sunday's Climate Protest Could Be a Turning Point on Global Warming


3.1k
Shares


Share
Tweet
Share






What's This?











On August 28, 2014, more than 30 people gathered in Times Square to promote the People's Climate March with illuminated signs.Image:  NYC Light Brigade
By Andrew Freedman2014-09-19 18:20:10 UTC


This Sunday, upwards of 100,000 people are expected to take to the streets of New York City in a worldwide climate protest that organizers say will be the largest and most diverse in history. 
If these numbers prove correct, then the "People's Climate March" will likely mark the moment when global warming transitions from being a science and policy issue into a full-fledged social movement. Perhaps it will become as large as the gay rights and civil rights movements. But even if it doesn't, it could play a crucial part in changing the political environment on this seemingly intractable issue. 
As a sign of the march’s import, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will “lock arms” with protesters in New York, a highly unusual step for a someone in his leadership position. The march is intended to help build the social movement while also prodding world leaders to make meaningful commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions when more than 120 of them gather at a U.N. Climate Summit that Ban is hosting on Tuesday.
"This march is going to have a serious political impact, maybe not today, but certainly in the months and years to come," said Jamie Henn, a spokesman for the environmental group 350.org, which has taken a leading role organizing the event. 
Right now, six busloads of Minnesota climate activists are on their way to New York, along with a “climate train” that set out from California and picked up activists during its trek across the country. At least 3,000 college students are slated to turn out from New York area universities alone. Around the world, more than 2,000 events are scheduled for Sunday as well. In total, about 100 million people globally will be represented, according to the organizing committee overseeing preparations.
“The scale of organizing for the march now rivals that of a major electoral campaign,” the organizing committee said in a press release. 
Former Vice President Al Gore, the person most identified with the climate change issue-to-date, told Mashable that the climate march signifies the development of something that's absolutely necessary in order for leaders to take the actions needed to combat the threat of global warming. 
“The climate movement is becoming one of the historic and powerful social movements, and, in some ways, the biggest social movement on a global basis that we have ever seen,” Gore said. “It is still in its early years. Many people have been at it for a long time, some of them a lot longer than me, and yet for the mass of people, it is just now becoming a social movement that it must be in order to prevail.”
Gore said he will also be marching on Sunday.

Photo from the People's Climate March public launch on July 30, 2014.Image:  Vanessa TsimoyianisThe People's Climate March is backed by an unprecedented coalition of 45 major labor groups, including heavy hitters such as the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) — a group that Henn said "doesn’t mess around" — along with prominent grassroots environmental organizations like 350.org as well as religious organizations. More than 1,400 businesses are also part of the coalition. 
In interviews with Mashable, leaders of the organizing committee as well as grassroots organizers said they see this march as a seminal moment that will be looked back upon as an inflection point on the road to combating global warming and advancing climate justice.
Henn, whose organization has led the fight against the Keystone XL pipeline during the past few years, told Mashable that this event will be a milestone in the burgeoning climate movement.
"This is a show of power that i think will continue to reverberate,” Henn said. “This is a battle with many fronts and we’re beginning to assemble a movement that can work at all those different levels.”
The diversity of the groups involved in the march, Henn said, ensures that many different perspectives will be heard — from union workers concerned about ensuring the growth of the clean tech economy in the U.S., to nurses who are already seeing the impacts of hotter and longer heat waves. 
“Not everyone will start their sentences with global warming, but they’re all pushing for the same thing,” Henn said. “It really is a big tent moment to show there is a big constituency taking action.”
Clearing the political space to enable action
As Gore hints, many who have been in the trenches on climate change issues over the past several years believe that the issue needs a social movement built around it in order to pave the way for action. Without such a groundswell to support politicians who are pushing climate-friendly policies that can threaten powerful interests, such as the oil and gas industry, those policies will continue to languish. 
“They can’t make progress without a strong social movement clearing the way for them,” Henn said.
In fact, many of the activists taking part in Sunday’s march think traditional environmental groups that have played a key role in policy fights in Washington, D.C., are part of the problem, rather than the solution.
They view the failure to pass climate legislation in Congress in 2009 and 2010 as a demonstration of the limits of traditional inside-the-beltway engagement in which big environmental groups, like Environmental Defense, specialize. These activists see climate justice, which incorporates other issues like racial and economic disparities, as being off these groups’ agenda.

House legislators mark up a climate bill, which ultimately passed the House but failed to pass the Senate, in May, 2009.Image: Susan Walsh/Associated PressJihan Gearon, who works on environmental issues at Navajo reservations in New Mexico, where energy development and unemployment are both rampant, said the march will feature “a lot more different kinds of groups than you usually would see” at such an event.
Protest organizers raised enough money — they didn’t disclose how much, but their goal was about $10 million, according to one organizer — to help subsidize travel costs for march participants from around the world.
Laura Hanson Schlachter, a local organizer for 350.org in Madison, Wisconsin, said her group is sending three buses and members via the climate train, bringing the Wisconsin contingent to about 150 people. 
“Climate issues affect everyone, and this is the first time, I think, that we’ve created an invitation for everyone to be part of the issue,” said Schlachter. “Our global leaders are crucial and we want them to do the right thing on Tuesday,” she said, referring to the climate summit. 
But, she added, “We are not going to wait for our world leaders.”


Topics:
350.org, Climate, climate justice, climate policy, climate protest, climate summit, peoples climate march, Politics, U.S., US & World, World













Load Comments

Powered by Livefyre








What's Hot





More in World





What's New


What's Rising


What's Hot





What's New
What's Rising
What's Hot
















About UsJobsAdvertiseSubscribePrivacyTerms









Mashable

is a leading source for news, information and resources for the Connected Generation. Mashable reports on the importance of digital innovation and how it empowers and inspires people around the world. Mashable's record 40 million unique visitors worldwide and 20 million social media followers are one of the most influential and engaged online communities. Founded in 2005, Mashable is headquartered in New York City with an office in San Francisco.



©2005-2015
Mashable, Inc.


Reproduction without explicit permission is prohibited. All Rights Reserved.


Designed in collaboration with Code & Theory









