Westernpacificweather.com | Super Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby Threatens the Philippines / Thursday PM UpdateWesternpacificweather.com | Super Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby Threatens the Philippines / Thursday PM UpdateWesternpacificweather.com | Super Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby Threatens the Philippines / Thursday PM Update		























































Local Forecast
Surface Analysis
Tropical Info. Center
Satellite Imagery

Full Disk IR
Full Disk VIS
Radar Imagery
SE Asia Enhanced IR
SE Asia VIS/IR
Western Pacific Enhanced IR
Western Pacific IR
Western Pacific WV


Earthquake & Tsunami
Links
Tropical Threat Map
About

Copyright Notice
Hail…. The Weather Game
Social Media Hub
Westpacwx APP


Interactive Map
Scales

Australia Cyclone Scale
Fujita Scale
India Meteorological Cyclone Intensity Scale
RSMC Tokyo’s Cyclone Intensity Scale
Saffir-Simpson Scale
Temperature Conversion

Current Tropical Systems
Typhoon Names
Weather Search
Westpacwx Search


Tropical Cyclone Classification Guide


Winds

Clouds


Education

2011 Year in Review
2012 Year in Review
2014 Year in Review
Image of the Day
Japan Warning Translations
Lake / Ocean Effect Snow
Six Westerly Lows of Eastern Asia
South West / North East Monsoon
Storm Footage
Tropical Cyclone Tracks

2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012

01W ONE
02W PAKHAR
03W SANVU
04W MAWAR
05W GUCHOL
06W TALIM
07W DOKSURI
08W KHANUN
09W VINCENTE
10W SAOLA
11W DAMREY
12W HAIKUI


2013

01W SONAMU
02W Shanshan




Western Pacific Ocean Currents
Who is the Official Typhoon Agency?
Tropical Cyclone Overview
























						Super Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby Threatens the Philippines / Thursday PM Update		 
				Posted on 
December 4, 2014
 by 
Robert Speta

 
				Posted in Uncategorized 
 




The strongest storm on the planet for 2014 is setting eyes on one of the most vulnerable locations for Typhoons on the planet this evening.
Typhoon Hagupit (ironically is the Tagalog word for whip or lash ) locally known as Ruby in the Philippines is now a Violent Typhoon on JMAs scale, a super typhoon on JTWCs scale and would be a Super Typhoon on the PAGASA scale if the new system for 2015 was already in place. In short this is a severe and dangerous storm system that deserves respect from those ahead of it.

Already evacuations are underway and people are getting ready to head to shelters across parts of Samar and Leyte. The Mayor of Tacloban stated “Definitely we will now strictly enforce forced evacuation,” in a press release Wednesday. “We have no more excuse, we have gone through Yolanda, and to lose that many lives, it’s beyond our conscience already,” he said, referring to typhoon Haiyan which left more than 7,000 dead or missing in November last year.
Shelves being emptied ahead of Hagutin
Images shared to the westpacwx Facebook page show super markets being crowded with many shelves emptied in preparations.  Key thing to note though is follow official warnings from local authorities and if you are in a danger area be sure to evacuate or head to a designated storm shelter.
There continues to be a spread in the agencies and model guidance as of Thursday morning but the good news is that spread has become less vast as we approach the 0 hour on landfall. Bad news is that there is still some uncertainty in the forecast. That is why anyone still in the cone of error with this storm should continue to prepare for the brunt of this storm.
The brunt of it is a monster composing of winds gusting well over 300kph, a dangerous storm surge and flooding rains.
At this time Signal Force 2 has been issued for parts of Visayas but in all honesty I dislike this system as it does not indicate the gravity of the situation. Eastern Visayas will NOT see Signal Force 2 winds, they will see 4 winds.  Enough to blow around not only light but large debris and cause significant damage to a home.
 
Loding Storm Map… Javascript is required to view this one.

Hagupit is a Category 5 Typhoon on the Saffir Simpson Scale, this is the definition of damage of a storm of that intensity from… Catastrophic damage will occur: A high percentage of framed homes will be destroyed, with total roof failure and wall collapse. Fallen trees and power poles will isolate residential areas. Power outages will last for weeks to possibly months. Most of the area will be uninhabitable for weeks or months.
Damage from a Cat 5
I do not use scare tactics to get views, and there is a reason for that, when I want to stress a storm poses a very severe risk of causing the loss of life I want people to understand it is serious and not an exaggeration. Typhoon Hagupit is a dangerous storm. If you are ANYWHERE ahead of this storm and even feel like you could be in a dangerous area then head to somewhere safe, take shelter. head inland. BE READY! Lets hope we have learned from past experiences
Previous Typhoons
Be prepared and take precautionary measures! #RubyPH pic.twitter.com/LmIhIAUtu0
— DepEd (@DepEd_PH) December 4, 2014












						  « Super Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Afternoon Video Update December 4, 2014 

PAGASA Website Breaks Down As Hagupit/Ruby Threatens PHL »						







Convective Outlook 24-26 Jan 2015
Japan takes a wintry hit as the remainder of the WPAC remains quiet
Moisture from Mekkhala Hits Japan / Weekend Outlook
Convective Outlook 23 Jan 2015



1234
 

 

 



 



James Reynolds Typhoon Video

You need Flash player 8+ and JavaScript enabled to view this video.


 











Major City Weather Search 










Translate Language




Help the Site 






  
Website Search 










Partners

28storms
Auscyclonechasers
Earthquake-report
Earthuncut.tv
ExtremeStorms.Com
Manila Typhoon Center
MarkVoganWeather
Sagitnangbagyo
Storm2k.org
Typhoon and Weather Imagery
weather-manila
West Pacific Meteorological Discussion Group



















							© Westernpacificweather.com						







 







 
















