Typhoon Haiyan: How It Changed My Life - MTV Voices




Typhoon Haiyan: How It Changed My Life - MTV Voices

















































MTV Voices



Main navigation


Site search


Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
Tumblr

Reality
Photos
Video
MTV Breaks
Vs The World








×

                    Begin typing to search and press enter
                














 
                                You &amp; Me VS the World 
                            
5 December 2014


Typhoon Haiyan: How It Changed My Life






                                        By 
                                            Voices Collective 
                                        
















Can you imagine cowering with your family and friends inside a building as it’s torn apart by the storm raging outside? Imagine just knowing that even when the immediate emergency dies down, your life is going to be changed forever. For Carissa, this became cold, hard reality when Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines last year.
But, even though Carissa’s life was radically changed by the storm, like all the awesome young people who star in You & Me VS the World, she’s flipped the worst things that could happen, into something that has made her life even better. Carissa is so much more than just a survivor. She’s become a passionate player in the process of re-building the typhoon hit areas. She’s now working with International Medical Corps UK to re-establish the schools Haiyan destroyed. Find out more about what made a life-changing event, turn Clarissa into a life-changer.

To watch more stories of First Responders, check out the campaign, run by International Medical Corps UK and the European Commission which celebrates these every day heroes.
 





How did this make you feel?



0WTF0Wow


1Angry0Me too


0Go you0My idol


0Sad0Scary


0Shocked0Motivated


0Knowledge!0Inspired
 
 


Make your voice heard






Poll
Vote now

Has a natural disaster ever affected you?

16Yes14No





 
Tell us your story





                                Make a comment
                                 









Related






You and Me vs. the World 





Typhoon Haiyan: One Year On





From Student to Hero





Was your life changed by Typhoon Haiyan?





MTV World Stage: Celebrity Insiders 





Living Through Typhoon Haiyan





“We Need Your Help. Now”





Philippines' Typhoon





Anatomy Of A Song: Rudimental - Not Giving In












Correspondents
Contact us
About Us
Make Stuff For Us
Website Terms
Partner with us
Privacy



Go to the MTV home page
© 2013 Viacom International Media Networks.All rights reserved.



In the MTV Voices family

MTV Staying Alive Foundation
MTV EXIT







