From Student to Hero - MTV Voices




From Student to Hero - MTV Voices













































MTV Voices



Main navigation


Site search


Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
Tumblr

Reality
Photos
Video
MTV Breaks
Vs The World








×

                    Begin typing to search and press enter
                














 
                                Vs The World 
                            
7 November 2014


From Student to Hero






                                        By 
                                            Voices Collective 
                                        
















Can you remember what you were doing on the 8th November last year? Well millions of people in the Philippines will remember it as the day Typhoon Haiyan tore through their homes and lives, changing them forever. The world watched as the devastation unfolded, and thousands of lives were lost. But as time passed we also got to hear of the incredible stories from that day, and how people went from a student, friend or maybe brother or sister, to life-saver and hero. One of those stories was Niamah who one year on is still looking for the strangers she helped keep safe on that night.
MTV Voices has been working on a one-off show to celebrate the young people who lived through the storm, as well as find out what it takes when you’re pushed into a life and death situation. You & Me Vs The World will be on MTV in December, but on the anniversary of Typhoon Haiyan we wanted to share one of the amazing people that we met as we were filming. Niamah was one of those amazing First Responders.
So if you’re studying, or working, or hanging out with your mates, imagine what would happen if one minute everything came crashing down around you – what would you do next?
We spoke to Niamah as part of the First Responders campaign, a joint project between International Medical Corps and the European Commission which proves how ordinary people can do extraordinary things in an effort to help each other in times of crisis.






How did this make you feel?



1WTF13Wow


2Angry1Me too


3Go you6My idol


0Sad0Scary


1Shocked5Motivated


1Knowledge!47Inspired
 
 


Make your voice heard






Poll
Vote now

Has a natural disaster ever affected you?

16Yes14No





 
Tell us your story





                                Make a comment
                                 









Related






Typhoon Haiyan: How It Changed My Life





Typhoon Haiyan: One Year On





Was your life changed by Typhoon Haiyan?





MTV World Stage: Celebrity Insiders 












Correspondents
Contact us
About Us
Make Stuff For Us
Website Terms
Partner with us
Privacy



Go to the MTV home page
© 2013 Viacom International Media Networks.All rights reserved.



In the MTV Voices family

MTV Staying Alive Foundation
MTV EXIT







