Youth group urges probe of bunkhouses smashed by Hagupit
Youth group urges probe of bunkhouses smashed by Hagupit







































					26-Jan-2015 | 01:34 AM				






   


Home
About Us
TNAV
Weather
Special Feature

























Follow @interaksyon
















NATIONAL
WORLD
BUSINESS
SPORTS5
INFOTEK
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFESTYLE
OPINION
MOTORING
































TODAY'S HEADLINES




Govt forces, MILF rebels report casualties in rare clash
25-Jan-15, 7:06 PM | Agence France-Presse | With a PNA Report




Japan condemns IS execution, demands release of remaining hostage
25-Jan-15, 5:07 PM | Reuters




Modi, Obama announce nuclear breakthrough after talks
25-Jan-15, 8:42 PM | Agence France-Presse




115 YEARS AGO | Legazpi City commemorates 1900 battle against American invaders
25-Jan-15, 11:12 AM | Philippines News Agency




PLDT hiking capex in 2015
25-Jan-15, 9:57 PM | Darwin G. Amojelar, InterAksyon.com




Korean seized in Zamboanga Sibugay in apparent kidnapping for ransom
25-Jan-15, 6:43 PM | Jaime Sinapit, InterAksyon.com




















 

 National
Youth group urges probe of bunkhouses smashed by Hagupit

						By: Lira Dalangin-Fernandez, InterAksyon.com
						December 9, 2014 5:09 PM					
 






			Bunkhouses destroyed by typhoon Hagupit in Tacloban City. (photo by Lottie Salarda, InterAksyon.com)
		
 



 







Tweet




 

InterAksyon.comThe online news portal of TV5
MANILA, Philippines -- (UPDATE - 6:25 p.m.) Whatever happened to "build back better?"
This was the question the youth group Anakbayan asked government following the destruction by typhoon Hagupit of bunkhouses and other infrastructure for survivors of last year’s super typhoon Yolanda, which were supposedly built to withstand calamities.
The group said government’s touted “build back better” mantra should have meant the bunkhouses, built as temporary shelters for Yolanda survivors, should have been sturdy enough to withstand the new storm.
"Bunkhouses made for Yolanda victims, previously assailed as overpriced and substandard, were destroyed by the typhoon. Worse, the Department of Social Welfare and Development representatives insisted that the people stay in these bunkhouses as the storm came, putting their lives and belongings in danger," Anakbayan chairman Vencer Crisostomo said.
InterAksyon.com earlier reported on these issues.
However, at a noontime briefing in Malacanang Tuesday, deputy Palace spokesperson Abigail Valte the bunkhouses were never intended to be part of the “build back better” scheme because these “are not meant to be permanent shelters so, hindi po ‘yan ‘yung sinasabi nating (those are not what we call) build back better.”
She also said some of the destroyed bunkhouses “hindi na ho siya in use dahil nailipat na po sila doon sa mga iba hong tirahan (because they had been transferred to other shelters).”
The bunkhouses in Barangay Fatima, Tacloban City that InterAksyon.com came upon were inhabited. So were those in Barangay 60-A.
At the briefing, Valte, quoting from updates she said were provided by Public Works Secretary Rogelio Singson, only mentioned one bunkhouse each in Sagkahan and Caibaan whose roofs were damaged but were already being repaired by the barangay.
The only bunkhouse that she said collapsed -- in Abucay -- had not been built by the government.
She also said no bunkhouses were damaged in Palo and Marabut towns, in Leyte, or in Eastern Samar.
Asked whether government had not wasted money building bunkhouses that Hagupit damaged, Valte said: “Unang-una, hindi po tayo nagsayang ng pera dahil meron naman pong mga nabiktimang nakagamit ‘nung iba dito. At pangalawa, again, by their very nature, temporary po ‘yan; at ang sabi nga ho ni Secretary Singson ay ‘yung pagtayo po niyan, they’re designed to withstand winds of 150 kilometers per hour. Ngayon nagkataon ay medyo mas malakas ho ‘yung dumaan doon sa mga lugar na ‘yon (First of all, we did not waste money because there were victims who used some of these. And second, again, by their very nature, they are temporary; and Secretary Singson said when these were built, they’re designed to withstand winds of 150 kilometer per hour. It just happened that the storm that passed those areas was really strong)…”
As for the accounts of Yolanda survivors that they were told by the DSWD not to leave the bunkhouses for sturdier shelters during Hagupit, Valte asked for details, saying the “the instructions must have been attributed to particular DSWD officials. We would like their details so the matter can be clarified.”
 
Aside from the bunkhouses, the newly rebuilt terminal building of the Tacloban airport also sustained damage from Hagupit.
“The Aquino government should be held accountable for the substandard bunkhouses and infrastructure. The government mantra ‘build back better’ is obviously a lie as proven by these incidents," Crisostomo said. 
"The build back better program should be named kickback better. It is a grand plan to plunder funds intended for typhoon victims,” he added, as he urged the government agencies concerned to look into the officials and contractors involved in the implementation of the projects.
He also called for a “full review” of all contracts under the government’s P170-billion rehabilitation plan for Yolanda-stricken areas
 









 


 







Tweet




 



Related Stories:

• Damage to NGCP lines delaying full power restoration in Northern Samar - utility• 18 killed, 916 hurt in Hagupit - NDRRMC• EU sends humanitarian team to help in Hagupit assessment• 800,000 lose temp jobs, livelihood due to Hagupit, ILO to assist through emergency employment• BABAY | Hagupit continues to move out of PH; no more storm signals• At least 27 dead, says Red Cross, as Hagupit weakens into a tropical depression• PHOTOS | Despite rains, devotees join 35th Intramuros Grand Marian Procession• #WALANG PASOK | Class suspensions for December 9, Tuesday• Tacloban, 40 other airports open to commercial aircraft• PANANGGA | Trucks become windbreakers in Coron to keep new public market safe from Ruby

 












 
 

 












RELATED ARTICLES




Damage to NGCP lines delaying full power restoration in Northern Samar - utility

18 killed, 916 hurt in Hagupit - NDRRMC

EU sends humanitarian team to help in Hagupit assessment

800,000 lose temp jobs, livelihood due to Hagupit, ILO to assist through emergency employment

BABAY | Hagupit continues to move out of PH; no more storm signals

At least 27 dead, says Red Cross, as Hagupit weakens into a tropical depression

PHOTOS | Despite rains, devotees join 35th Intramuros Grand Marian Procession

#WALANG PASOK | Class suspensions for December 9, Tuesday

Tacloban, 40 other airports open to commercial aircraft

PANANGGA | Trucks become windbreakers in Coron to keep new public market safe from Ruby
 




OTHER NATIONAL STORIES 




EDSA rehab fine, but where's traffic plan? MMDA asks DPWH

TIME TO REBOOT | Expect improved SK system in reform bill – Bam

Jeepney fares reduced in 3 more regions

Govt forces, MILF rebels report casualties in rare clash

Korean seized in Zamboanga Sibugay in apparent kidnapping for ransom





BREAKING NEWS




Obama ramps up pressure on Russia after deadly Ukraine blitz

Six killed when Panama bus falls into ravine

13 dead in Egypt unrest on uprising anniversary: officials

Yemen crisis deepens but Obama vows Qaeda pursuit

Ten go on trial in France for 'exploiting' frail L'Oreal heiress

Panic and chaos as Boko Haram storms key Nigerian towns

EDSA rehab fine, but where's traffic plan? MMDA asks DPWH

Philippine Business Bank in talks with potential foreign investors

Israel book chain drops Charlie Hebdo in-store promo plan

Macay eyes first-half fundraiser for RC Cola business

Philippine stock market to take cue from fourth-quarter economic data

TIME TO REBOOT | Expect improved SK system in reform bill – Bam

PLDT hiking capex in 2015

PLDT's fixed-line broadband subscriber base hits 1 million

AirAsia Philippines' acquisition of Zest Air hurdles Senate
 





 

 



	 
	



www.interaksyon.com



NATIONAL
WORLD
BUSINESS
SPORTS5
INFOTEK
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFESTYLE
OPINION
SPECIAL FEATURES


Copyright InterAksyon.com - All rights reserved.


 

Home
National
World
Business
Sports5

Basketball
Boxing
Football
Billiards
MMA
More Sports
The Fix
Photos


Infotek

Tech News
ICT Updates
Gadgets
Videos
Columns


Entertainment
Lifestyle

Arts & Culture
Fashion & Beauty
Wellness
Food
Shopping & Stepping out
Travel
Family & Faith
Youth
Home & Garden
Events
Videos


Opinion
Motoring

Motoring News
MotorSports
Showroom
Columns 

Special Feature
TNAV

 












