
	International Medical Corps Fights Acute Malnutrition in Children in Philippines  - International Medical Corps


	International Medical Corps Fights Acute Malnutrition in Children in Philippines  - International Medical Corps













































ABOUT



Mission & History
Leadership
Partnerships
Financial Reports
Ensuring Quality
Contact Us




OUR PROGRAMS



Our Approach
Program Priorities

Emergency Response & Preparedness
Capacity Strengthening
Women's & Children's Health and Well-Being
Mental Health
Clean Water, Sanitation & Hygiene


Additional Technical Expertise

Fragile States
Gender-Based Violence
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Diseases
Livelihoods & Agriculture
Logistics
Nutrition & Food Security
Pandemic Preparedness
Refugee Populations


Where We Work




HOW YOU CAN HELP



Donate
 Make a Tribute Gift
Other Ways to Give
Volunteer
Work With Us






Find us on social networks

Twitter
Facebook
YouTube




NEWS



Philippines Emergency Response
Press Releases
Feature Stories
Video
Media Coverage




CAREERS



Work With Us
See Current Openings












Search:





Search





























International Medical Corps Fights Acute Malnutrition in Children in Philippines




  Melodina with twins Cristina Marie and Cristine Joy


By Jenna Montgomery, International Medical Corps
Children are among the most vulnerable during and after an emergency. When Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines on November 8, 2013, countless children living in remote communities were left cut off from critical health care services. International Medical Corps First Responders were on the ground within 24 hours and began health consultations in the most remote and hardest-to-reach areas. Leyte province was one of these isolated yet devastated areas where International Medical Corps First Responders set up operations. Linked with the massive destruction of crops, cut-off supply routes and the risk of communicable diseases, our teams found that many children were at risk of malnutrition and needed immediate health interventions.
A resident of Albuera in Leyte Province, 36-year-old Melodina is the mother of 9 children, ranging in age from 20 years to 20 months. Her 20-month-old twins, Cristina Marie and Cristine Joy, are now receiving a regular supply of a peanut-based paste called PlumpySup, a nutrient-rich food supplement provided by International Medical Corps, UNICEF, and the World Food Program (WFP). Prior to the typhoon, Melodina’s children subsisted off of their father’s construction wages of 200 pesos (4 USD) per month, which paid for rice and fish. The root crops and vegetables grown in their backyard supplemented the family’s diet and income. Because Typhoon Haiyan destroyed the family home and garden, they are no longer able to rely on their crops for money or for food. Furthermore, the children’s father is left without a regular means of income. Now, the family lives in a makeshift tent and relies on relief goods and help from non-governmental organizations. Melodina has been coming to the barangay (neighborhood) distribution site for Cristina Marie and Cristine Joy’s lifesaving food rations.
Working with UNICEF and the World Food Program, International Medical Corps is able to reach Albuera with critical nutrition programs -- as well as ten other municipalities affected by Haiyan. These programs are designed to manage and treat acute malnutrition and especially promote infant and young child feeding. Cristina Marie and Christine Joy are just two examples of vulnerable children at risk of acute malnutrition after a natural disaster. Melodina is very thankful for International Medical Corps and our support of her family during these difficult times.










Share





Facebook





digg





Delicious





Yahoo!

















Where We Work  

Afghanistan
Kenya
Burundi
Lebanon
Cameroon
Liberia
CAR
Libya
Chad 
Mali
Darfur
Nigeria
D.R. Congo
Pakistan
Ethiopia
Philippines
Gaza
Russian Fed.
Haiti
Sierra Leone
Indonesia
Somalia
Iraq
South Sudan
Japan
Syria
Jordan
Turkey
Liberia
Yemen
Zimbabwe




 

 

**


MORE ON PHILIPPINES
December 4, 2014 - International Medical Corps Teams on Standby as Super Typhoon Hagupit Heads for Philippines
November 19, 2014 - Meet Kate: A High School Student in the Philippines Selected as a Hygiene Champion
March 28, 2014 - International Medical Corps Delivering Lifesaving Medical Supplies Following Typhoon Haiyan
March 26, 2014 - International Medical Corps Fights Acute Malnutrition in Children in Philippines 
MORE... 


MORE ON NUTRITION
March 26, 2014 - International Medical Corps Fights Acute Malnutrition in Children in Philippines 
October 15, 2013 - Worsening Nutritional Situation in CAR 
July 12, 2013 -  In Chad, Good Harvest Not Enough to Protect Against Malnutrition
 
MORE... 








 


 
 Combating Malnutrition in Children: The Next 1,000 Days 
Five years after the international community identified the 1,000 days between pregnancy and a child’s second birthday as critical to that child’s future growth, International Medical Corps and partners are working hard to build on the progress made in childhood nutrition worldwide.


 
 On the Ground in India Following Massive Cyclone Phailin 
International Medical Corps’ Emergency Response Team is on the ground in India following Cyclone Phailin, a catastrophic storm roughly the size of Hurricane Katrina, that struck the country’s eastern coast in October.


 
 Q&A with Colleen Fitzgerald 
Learn more about our mental health and psychosocial programs in Libya.


 
 Critical Health Services Reach Underserved Communities in Northern Mali 
International Medical Corps is working in the north of Mali, providing emergency health, nutrition and protection services to Malians affected by the conflict.



 5-year project to reach 50,000 in DRC
The Care, Access, Safety, & Empowerment and Behavior Change Communications projects are complementary programs addressing the needs of gender-based violence survivors while also preventing future cases.















 



Program Priorities
Emergency Response & Preparedness Capacity Strengthening Women’s & Children’s Health Clean Water, Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health  Additional Technical Expertise

 

About
History Our Approach Where We Work FAQ  Contact


Be Involved
Ways to Donate Gift Catalog Follow Us Work with Us


News
Press Releases Media Coverage Featured Content Videos


More
Facebook PinterestTwitter  Youtube  My Account








 

Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed by International Medical Corps under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United States License

 











Privacy Policy - Terms & Conditions - Copyright ©2013, International Medical Corps® All rights reserved












