Westernpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit Makes landfall near Oras, SamarWesternpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit Makes landfall near Oras, SamarWesternpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit Makes landfall near Oras, Samar		























































Local Forecast
Surface Analysis
Tropical Info. Center
Satellite Imagery

Full Disk IR
Full Disk VIS
Radar Imagery
SE Asia Enhanced IR
SE Asia VIS/IR
Western Pacific Enhanced IR
Western Pacific IR
Western Pacific WV


Earthquake & Tsunami
Links
Tropical Threat Map
About

Copyright Notice
Hail…. The Weather Game
Social Media Hub
Westpacwx APP


Interactive Map
Scales

Australia Cyclone Scale
Fujita Scale
India Meteorological Cyclone Intensity Scale
RSMC Tokyo’s Cyclone Intensity Scale
Saffir-Simpson Scale
Temperature Conversion

Current Tropical Systems
Typhoon Names
Weather Search
Westpacwx Search


Tropical Cyclone Classification Guide


Winds

Clouds


Education

2011 Year in Review
2012 Year in Review
2014 Year in Review
Image of the Day
Japan Warning Translations
Lake / Ocean Effect Snow
Six Westerly Lows of Eastern Asia
South West / North East Monsoon
Storm Footage
Tropical Cyclone Tracks

2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012

01W ONE
02W PAKHAR
03W SANVU
04W MAWAR
05W GUCHOL
06W TALIM
07W DOKSURI
08W KHANUN
09W VINCENTE
10W SAOLA
11W DAMREY
12W HAIKUI


2013

01W SONAMU
02W Shanshan




Western Pacific Ocean Currents
Who is the Official Typhoon Agency?
Tropical Cyclone Overview
























						Typhoon Hagupit Makes landfall near Oras, Samar		 
				Posted on 
December 6, 2014
 by 
Robert Speta

 
				Posted in Uncategorized 
 




Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby has now made landfall in eastern Samar near the city of Oras home to about 34,000 residents. The storm took a rapid jog west just prior
Hagupit just prior to landfall
to landfall bringing its time of crossing the shore slightly earlier than anticipated.
Jogs in a storms track are common at landfall in mountainous areas due to friction that often occurs when a storm comes ashore.
For those who have been asking what agency is getting it right, looks like PAGASA the official agency of the Philippines as far as the final location of landfall. Even though the storm is now coming on shore this story is not over yet.  Hagupit continues to track at a very slow pace and damaging winds have only now just started to encompass the island of Samar, even as far as Guinan winds up to 122kph were reported.
Good news it that local goverments already have forced evacuations in place in this area as well as many residents are taking proper preparations.  About 500,000 people have been told to evacuate according to local officials on Saturday.
Rappler released this video of a storm surge in Northern Samar Saturday afternoon.

 
Use the map to view the last or current Tropical System,  click on icons to view current weather and 5 day forecast and switch between various agencies and satellite imagery using the options on top.  
Loding Storm Map… Javascript is required to view this one.

Below is the ECMWF rainfall accumulation outlook over the next 96hrs.  This image is to demonstrate that the winds and the surge will not be the only threat with this storm, but also the rainfall. Som areas could see well over 500mm resulting in a serious threat of landslides and flooding. Those living in low lying areas or along steep mountain slopes in the storms path should also be ready for this storm.
96hr rainfall outlook
Below is a time lapse video shot by James Reynolds in Samar as the storm neared on Saturday.

Tweets by @EarthUncutTV












						  « Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby Landfall In Northern Samar, Saturday Afternoon Update 

Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby making landfall in Eastern Samar (Sunday early morning update) »						







Convective Outlook 24-26 Jan 2015
Japan takes a wintry hit as the remainder of the WPAC remains quiet
Moisture from Mekkhala Hits Japan / Weekend Outlook
Convective Outlook 23 Jan 2015



1234
 

 

 



 



James Reynolds Typhoon Video

You need Flash player 8+ and JavaScript enabled to view this video.


 











Major City Weather Search 










Translate Language




Help the Site 






  
Website Search 










Partners

28storms
Auscyclonechasers
Earthquake-report
Earthuncut.tv
ExtremeStorms.Com
Manila Typhoon Center
MarkVoganWeather
Sagitnangbagyo
Storm2k.org
Typhoon and Weather Imagery
weather-manila
West Pacific Meteorological Discussion Group



















							© Westernpacificweather.com						







 







 
















