Westernpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby making landfall in Eastern Samar (Sunday early morning update)Westernpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby making landfall in Eastern Samar (Sunday early morning update)Westernpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby making landfall in Eastern Samar (Sunday early morning update)		
























































Local Forecast
Surface Analysis
Tropical Info. Center
Satellite Imagery

Full Disk IR
Full Disk VIS
Radar Imagery
SE Asia Enhanced IR
SE Asia VIS/IR
Western Pacific Enhanced IR
Western Pacific IR
Western Pacific WV


Earthquake & Tsunami
Links
Tropical Threat Map
About

Copyright Notice
Hail…. The Weather Game
Social Media Hub
Westpacwx APP


Interactive Map
Scales

Australia Cyclone Scale
Fujita Scale
India Meteorological Cyclone Intensity Scale
RSMC Tokyo’s Cyclone Intensity Scale
Saffir-Simpson Scale
Temperature Conversion

Current Tropical Systems
Typhoon Names
Weather Search
Westpacwx Search


Tropical Cyclone Classification Guide


Winds

Clouds


Education

2011 Year in Review
2012 Year in Review
2014 Year in Review
Image of the Day
Japan Warning Translations
Lake / Ocean Effect Snow
Six Westerly Lows of Eastern Asia
South West / North East Monsoon
Storm Footage
Tropical Cyclone Tracks

2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012

01W ONE
02W PAKHAR
03W SANVU
04W MAWAR
05W GUCHOL
06W TALIM
07W DOKSURI
08W KHANUN
09W VINCENTE
10W SAOLA
11W DAMREY
12W HAIKUI


2013

01W SONAMU
02W Shanshan




Western Pacific Ocean Currents
Who is the Official Typhoon Agency?
Tropical Cyclone Overview
























						Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby making landfall in Eastern Samar (Sunday early morning update)		 
				Posted on 
December 6, 2014
 by 
Mike Adcock

 
				Posted in Uncategorized 
 



(Video was created just prior to landfall, at around 8 pm PhST)
The Adobe Flash Player is required for video playback.Get the latest Flash Player or Watch this video on YouTube.
 
Good evening/Good morning,
Typhoon Hagupit continues to make landfall in Eastern Samar this evening.  Although, significantly weaker than it was a couple days ago, it is still living up to its name — to lash.  As of 11 pm PhST (1500 UTC), the center of Typhoon Hagupit was located 20 km southeast of Dolores, Eastern Samar, or 110 km east of Calbayog City, Samar, moving west at 13 km/h.  Maximum sustained winds were estimated at 175 km/h with gusts up to 250 km/h.  The pressure is steady at 935 hPa.
Public Storm Warning Signals are in effect for a majority of the central Philippines.
PSWS 3 (101-185 km/h within 18 hours): Romblon, Catanduanes, Camarines Sur, Albay, Sorsogon, Masbate including Burias and Ticao Island, Northern Samar, Eastern Samar, Samar, Leyte and Biliran.
PSWS 2 (61-100 km/h within 24 hours): Camarines Norte, Southern Quezon, Marinduque, Oriental Mindoro, Occidental Mindoro, Northern Antique, Aklan, Semirara Grp. of Islands, Capiz, Northern Iloilo, Northern Cebu including Cebu City, Bantayan and Camotes Island, and Southern Leyte.

PSWS 1 (30-60 km/h within 36 hours): Pampanga, Bulacan, Rest of Quezon, Rizal, Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Lubang Island, Calamian Group of Islands, Cuyo, Metro Manila, Rest of Antique,Rest of Iloilo, Guimaras, Negros Occidental, Negros Oriental, Rest of Cebu, Bohol, Surigao del Norte including Siargao Island and Dinagat Province.

Stay tuned to PAGASA for updates on Public Storm Warning Signals as Hagupit continues to traverse the nation.
The forecast track is gaining better confidence.  The general consensus is it will continue to track over Samar tonight and into Sunday morning before crossing southern Bicol during the day.  By Monday morning, the center is expected to cross Marinduque enroute to Batangas/Mindoro by evening.  By Tuesday night, improving conditions are expected as the storm enters the South China Sea.
With regards to intensity, the typhoon should slowly weaken as it interacts with the various terrain across the Philippines.  Although strong winds are expected near the path of the storm, also consider significant rainfall (possibly up to 300 mm), storm surge, and possible flash floods and landslides.












						  « Typhoon Hagupit Makes landfall near Oras, Samar 

Live Updates From Inside Hagupit / RubyPH »						







Convective Outlook 24-26 Jan 2015
Japan takes a wintry hit as the remainder of the WPAC remains quiet
Moisture from Mekkhala Hits Japan / Weekend Outlook
Convective Outlook 23 Jan 2015



1234
 

 

 



 



James Reynolds Typhoon Video

You need Flash player 8+ and JavaScript enabled to view this video.


 











Major City Weather Search 










Translate Language




Help the Site 






  
Website Search 










Partners

28storms
Auscyclonechasers
Earthquake-report
Earthuncut.tv
ExtremeStorms.Com
Manila Typhoon Center
MarkVoganWeather
Sagitnangbagyo
Storm2k.org
Typhoon and Weather Imagery
weather-manila
West Pacific Meteorological Discussion Group



















							© Westernpacificweather.com						







 







 
















