Westernpacificweather.com | First Images from Samar and Tacloban, Hagupit Tracks West Sunday AM UpdateWesternpacificweather.com | First Images from Samar and Tacloban, Hagupit Tracks West Sunday AM UpdateWesternpacificweather.com | First Images from Samar and Tacloban, Hagupit Tracks West Sunday AM Update		























































Local Forecast
Surface Analysis
Tropical Info. Center
Satellite Imagery

Full Disk IR
Full Disk VIS
Radar Imagery
SE Asia Enhanced IR
SE Asia VIS/IR
Western Pacific Enhanced IR
Western Pacific IR
Western Pacific WV


Earthquake & Tsunami
Links
Tropical Threat Map
About

Copyright Notice
Hail…. The Weather Game
Social Media Hub
Westpacwx APP


Interactive Map
Scales

Australia Cyclone Scale
Fujita Scale
India Meteorological Cyclone Intensity Scale
RSMC Tokyo’s Cyclone Intensity Scale
Saffir-Simpson Scale
Temperature Conversion

Current Tropical Systems
Typhoon Names
Weather Search
Westpacwx Search


Tropical Cyclone Classification Guide


Winds

Clouds


Education

2011 Year in Review
2012 Year in Review
2014 Year in Review
Image of the Day
Japan Warning Translations
Lake / Ocean Effect Snow
Six Westerly Lows of Eastern Asia
South West / North East Monsoon
Storm Footage
Tropical Cyclone Tracks

2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012

01W ONE
02W PAKHAR
03W SANVU
04W MAWAR
05W GUCHOL
06W TALIM
07W DOKSURI
08W KHANUN
09W VINCENTE
10W SAOLA
11W DAMREY
12W HAIKUI


2013

01W SONAMU
02W Shanshan




Western Pacific Ocean Currents
Who is the Official Typhoon Agency?
Tropical Cyclone Overview
























						First Images from Samar and Tacloban, Hagupit Tracks West Sunday AM Update		 
				Posted on 
December 6, 2014
 by 
Robert Speta

 
				Posted in Uncategorized 
 




 Very Strong Typhoon “Hagupit/22W” continues to track off towards the West very slowly (quasi-stationary) at speeds of 10 km/hr-it is crawling mind you! It was located 26 km South-southeast of Maslog town, Eastern Samar or just 78 km East-southeast of Calbayog City, Western Samar (well over land mass), and still packing 175 km/hr sustained winds gusting higher at 250 km/hr despite the fragmented circulation after moving into land for the last few hours.
Reports of damage remain limited as of writing this update at 7AM PST but that is to be expected as electric and communications have been knocked out in most areas where this storm came on shore Saturday night.  Good news is first images out of Tacloban show limited damage mostly due to strong winds as the storm surge really did not effect the city that was most severly hit one year ago by Typhoon Haiyan. 
 
#RubyPH aftermath in Tacloban, as of 6:50am, PH time, Dec. 7 #Hagupit | @davidyusantos pic.twitter.com/uxsOGCPByl
— 9News Philippines (@9newsph) December 6, 2014
 
The storm made landfall in eastern Samar near the city of Oras home to about 34,000 residents. The storm took a rapid jog west just prior to landfall bringing its time of crossing the shore slightly earlier than anticipated. Jogs in a storms track are common at landfall in mountainous areas due to friction that often occurs when a storm comes ashore.   For live updates coming out of the west coast of Samar please follow westpacwx team member James Reynolds on Twitter. Tweets by @EarthUncutTV
More than 600,000 residents in low-lying villages and landslide-prone areas across the Philippines have evacuated to schools, civic centers, town halls, gyms and churches, officials said.  Many of those evacuations were forced evacuations with law enforcment getting involved telling people to leave the coast. As we go through the rest of Sunday and communications slowly become restored we will see more on just how much of an impact this storm has had. 
Landfall of Hagupit
The Forecast
The American solution still confident in a West-northwest track in the next couple of days but other models prove otherwise. The Hawaii-based JTWC issued its
IR / VIS
latest bulletin on 22W suggesting it was not centered at 21 km Southwest of Maslog town, with winds of 185 km/hr gusting higher at 231 km/hr dipping more West-southwest at painstakingly dead slow 7 km/hr.
Heavy rains and high winds still upon most areas over Samar and North of Leyte provinces. This is a rain event people so be on highest alert for it’s not done yet. High surf and possible storm surge devastation could be seen by daylight. This stubborn storm remain very dangerous, so please do exercise caution when venturing in the open.
More flooding rains that could spawn more troubles in the days ahead. The longer it takes to weaken or dissipate should put everyone in jeopardy across the archipelago-what’s definite is the agonizing wait before the wx starts to improve in the middle of the week.
Below is the ECMWF rainfall accumulation outlook over the next 96hrs.  This image is to demonstrate that the winds and the surge will not be the only threat with this storm, but also the rainfall. Som areas could see well over 500mm resulting in a serious threat of landslides and flooding. Those living in low lying areas or along steep mountain slopes in the storms path should also be ready for this storm.
96hr Rainfall via Wxbell
For those in Manila the storm will be much weaker by the time it arrives there on Monday, the bigger threat will be rainfall as Hagupit will still be traveling at a slow pace. Signal force 1 has been lifted for Manila on Sunday morning.
Use the map to view the last or current Tropical System,  click on icons to view current weather and 5 day forecast and switch between various agencies and satellite imagery using the options on top.  
Loding Storm Map… Javascript is required to view this one.


Tweets by @robertspeta












						  « Live Updates From Inside Hagupit / RubyPH 

Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby Crosses Northern Visayas Sunday Evening »						







Convective Outlook 24-26 Jan 2015
Japan takes a wintry hit as the remainder of the WPAC remains quiet
Moisture from Mekkhala Hits Japan / Weekend Outlook
Convective Outlook 23 Jan 2015



1234
 

 

 



 



James Reynolds Typhoon Video

You need Flash player 8+ and JavaScript enabled to view this video.


 











Major City Weather Search 










Translate Language




Help the Site 






  
Website Search 










Partners

28storms
Auscyclonechasers
Earthquake-report
Earthuncut.tv
ExtremeStorms.Com
Manila Typhoon Center
MarkVoganWeather
Sagitnangbagyo
Storm2k.org
Typhoon and Weather Imagery
weather-manila
West Pacific Meteorological Discussion Group



















							© Westernpacificweather.com						







 







 
















