Westernpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit (Bagyong Ruby) moves near Southern Luzon | Morning UpdateWesternpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit (Bagyong Ruby) moves near Southern Luzon | Morning UpdateWesternpacificweather.com | Typhoon Hagupit (Bagyong Ruby) moves near Southern Luzon | Morning Update		






















































Local Forecast
Surface Analysis
Tropical Info. Center
Satellite Imagery

Full Disk IR
Full Disk VIS
Radar Imagery
SE Asia Enhanced IR
SE Asia VIS/IR
Western Pacific Enhanced IR
Western Pacific IR
Western Pacific WV


Earthquake & Tsunami
Links
Tropical Threat Map
About

Copyright Notice
Hail…. The Weather Game
Social Media Hub
Westpacwx APP


Interactive Map
Scales

Australia Cyclone Scale
Fujita Scale
India Meteorological Cyclone Intensity Scale
RSMC Tokyo’s Cyclone Intensity Scale
Saffir-Simpson Scale
Temperature Conversion

Current Tropical Systems
Typhoon Names
Weather Search
Westpacwx Search


Tropical Cyclone Classification Guide


Winds

Clouds


Education

2011 Year in Review
2012 Year in Review
2014 Year in Review
Image of the Day
Japan Warning Translations
Lake / Ocean Effect Snow
Six Westerly Lows of Eastern Asia
South West / North East Monsoon
Storm Footage
Tropical Cyclone Tracks

2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012

01W ONE
02W PAKHAR
03W SANVU
04W MAWAR
05W GUCHOL
06W TALIM
07W DOKSURI
08W KHANUN
09W VINCENTE
10W SAOLA
11W DAMREY
12W HAIKUI


2013

01W SONAMU
02W Shanshan




Western Pacific Ocean Currents
Who is the Official Typhoon Agency?
Tropical Cyclone Overview
























						Typhoon Hagupit (Bagyong Ruby) moves near Southern Luzon | Morning Update		 
				Posted on 
December 7, 2014
 by 
rpweather

 
				Posted in Tropicals 
 



Typhoon Hagupit (Bagyong Ruby) is now moving near the province of Quezon and the island of Marinduque. Hagupit is now barely a typhoon as it continues to weaken. However, Hagupit is still very much a strong and dangerous cyclone and should not be underestimated. Sustained winds near the center are still at 120kph with gusts that may reach up to 175kph according to the latest JMA Warning. Heavy rains continue to pound the region as well.
IR Image from NOAA

PAGASA has placed the National Capital Region (Metro Manila) under Public Storm Warning Signal #2 today and the National Government has suspended classes in all levels and government offices in the region due to the approaching typhoon. Dozens of flights have been canceled as well and nearly 500 people are stranded in Batangas Port as all sea travel in the region has been suspended. Unfortunately, 2 people have been confirmed dead due to Typhoon Hagupit; both in the island of Iloilo. Dangerously stormy conditions will persist across Southern Luzon and nearby provinces throughout the day today.
Watch WxCaster PAT’s latest Video Update below for in-depth analysis and forecasts regarding Typhoon Hagupit
The Adobe Flash Player is required for video playback.Get the latest Flash Player or Watch this video on YouTube.
We’ll continue to have updates so please keep it right here at Western Pacific Weather. Stay safe!











						  « Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby Crosses Northern Visayas Sunday Evening 

Typhoon Hagupit / Ruby Video and Image Gallery »						







Convective Outlook 24-26 Jan 2015
Japan takes a wintry hit as the remainder of the WPAC remains quiet
Moisture from Mekkhala Hits Japan / Weekend Outlook
Convective Outlook 23 Jan 2015



1234
 

 

 



 



James Reynolds Typhoon Video

You need Flash player 8+ and JavaScript enabled to view this video.


 











Major City Weather Search 










Translate Language




Help the Site 






  
Website Search 










Partners

28storms
Auscyclonechasers
Earthquake-report
Earthuncut.tv
ExtremeStorms.Com
Manila Typhoon Center
MarkVoganWeather
Sagitnangbagyo
Storm2k.org
Typhoon and Weather Imagery
weather-manila
West Pacific Meteorological Discussion Group



















							© Westernpacificweather.com						







 







 
















