Typhoon Haiyan News, Photos and Videos - ABC News
Typhoon Haiyan News, Photos and Videos - ABC News


















Home>Topics>News>Disasters>Typhoon Haiyan


Typhoon Haiyan News





Tweet



















Paul Walker's Brother Cody Remembers the Actor a Year After Death













News


Videos


Photos









Pope Leaves Manila After Drawing Record Crowd of 6 Million

Sun, 18 Jan 2015


 robbed them of a dignified life, visited with street children and traveled to Tacloban to offer prayers for survivors of  Typhoon Haiyan  , the deadly 2013 storm that devastated one of the Philippines' poorest regions. Earlier Sunday, Francis drew a huge  






Philippine Crowd Building for Papal Mass

Sat, 17 Jan 2015


 life, visited with street children and travelled to eastern Tacloban to offer prayers for the survivors of the deadly 2013  Typhoon Haiyan  that devastated one of the Philippines' poorest regions. Francis ditched his prepared remarks again, speaking off the  






POPE WATCH: Listen to Women, Francis Says

Sat, 17 Jan 2015


 VISIT Tragedy struck Pope Francis' visit to the central Philippine city of Tacloban, where he was comforting victims of  Typhoon Haiyan  , a devastating storm that left more than 7,300 people dead or missing just over a year ago. Police said a 27-year-old  






AP PHOTOS: Post-Typhoon, Can the Pope Repair Broken Ties?

Sat, 17 Jan 2015


 recurring theme emerged when they were asked about what the pope's visit meant to them: How communities fell apart after  Typhoon Haiyan  swept into the city on Nov. 8, 2013, leaving death and destruction in its wake. Men staying out late drinking, and  






Quotations in the News

Sat, 17 Jan 2015


 Pope Francis to 150,000 Catholic faithful gathered before Mass in Tacloban, the Philippine city hit hardest by  Typhoon Haiyan  two years ago. ——— "The most frequently asked question I get is, 'What does Ann think of  






Storm Cuts Short Pope's Trip to Typhoon-Hit Philippine City

Sat, 17 Jan 2015


 eastern Philippines to comfort survivors of devastating  Typhoon Haiyan  in 2013, then cut his own trip short because of another  ..... field near the airport in Tacloban, the city hit hardest by  Typhoon Haiyan . "I don't know what to say to you, but the Lord does  






Storm Cuts Short Pope's Trip to Typhoon-Hit Philippine City

Fri, 16 Jan 2015


 faithful gathered before Mass under a steady rain in an open field near the airport in Tacloban, the city hit hardest by  Typhoon Haiyan  . "I don't know what to say to you, but the Lord does know what to say to you. Some of you lost part of your families  






POPE WATCH: Stormy Weather May Cut Short Tacloban Visit

Fri, 16 Jan 2015


 visiting the Philippine city devastated by  Typhoon Haiyan  in 2013, on a two-country Asia tour  ..... 8212; THE TYPHOON Some facts about  Typhoon Haiyan , which struck on Nov. 8, 2013: — Dead  ..... on his popemobile, waving at them.  Typhoon Haiyan , the strongest typhoon on record to hit  






Huge Turnout as Pope Urges Filipinos to Reject Corruption

Fri, 16 Jan 2015


 was to meet with Filipino families. On Saturday he travels to the central Philippines to comfort survivors of the 2013  Typhoon Haiyan  , which left more than 7,300 dead and missing and leveled entire villages. The government has declared national holidays  






POPE WATCH: A Smartphone Welcome in a Historic Cathedral

Thu, 15 Jan 2015

POPE WATCH: Philippine clergy welcome pope, smartphones held high to record the moment





Pope on Climate Change: Man Has 'Slapped Nature in the Face'

Thu, 15 Jan 2015


 the environment and he elaborated en route to the Philippines . While there, Francis will meet with survivors of the 2013  Typhoon Haiyan  , which the government has said was an example of the extreme weather conditions that global warming has wrought. "I don't  






POPE WATCH: In Philippines, Hoping for a Wave From Francis

Thu, 15 Jan 2015


 Saturday to celebrate a Mass and have lunch with survivors of  Typhoon Haiyan  , which devastated the province on Nov. 8, 2013. "It is  ..... Island, where the pope is to meet with survivors of the 2013  Typhoon Haiyan . — By Nicole Winfield, AP writer, Colombo, Sri Lanka  






Pope Heading to Philippines, Where Adoring Crowds Await

Thu, 15 Jan 2015


 through Monday. He will be in the bustling capital of Manila and eastern Leyte province, where he plans to meet survivors of  Typhoon Haiyan  that left thousands dead and destroyed entire villages in 2013. Precy Asistio, 60, joined a growing crowd that waited  






Pope's Filipino Host Is a Humble, Rising Church Star

Wed, 14 Jan 2015


 the theme "mercy and compassion," comes after a difficult period of armed conflict and natural disasters, including  Typhoon Haiyan  , which leveled entire villages and left thousands of people dead and missing in November 2013 in central Leyte province  






Pope Mania Sweeps Philippines Ahead of Pope Francis' Visit

Tue, 13 Jan 2015


 reasons to look for hope. The leader of the 1.2 billion-strong Catholic world will visit eastern Leyte province, where  Typhoon Haiyan  killed thousands and leveled entire villages in November 2013. In addition, the pontiff's focus on poverty, inequality  






Pope Arrives in Sri Lanka at Start of Asian Tour

Mon, 12 Jan 2015


 third-largest in the world, for the second and final leg of the journey. There he'll comfort victims of the devastating 2013  Typhoon Haiyan  , which left more than 7,300 people dead or missing, displaced some 4 million and turned a huge densely populated region  






Pope Arrives in Sri Lanka at Start of Asian Tour

Mon, 12 Jan 2015


 third-largest in the world, for the second and final leg of the journey. There he'll comfort victims of the devastating 2013  Typhoon Haiyan  , which left more than 7,300 people dead or missing, displaced some 4 million and turned a huge densely populated region  






Pope's Trip to Sri Lanka and Philippines: 5 Things to Know

Mon, 12 Jan 2015


 the environment. Filipino bishops have made environmental concerns a top priority, and Francis will visit survivors of  Typhoon Haiyan  , which the government has held up as an example of the extreme weather patterns that may be the result of climate change  






Obama Pays Tribute to US Troops in Asia Pacific

Tue, 29 Apr 2014


 militaries even closer," he told the troops. "We'll improve our ability to respond even faster to disasters like [Super  Typhoon ]  Yolanda ." On a trip to the large American military cemetery here, the president honored U.S. and Filipino service members  






5 International Stories You'll Care About This Week

Sat, 26 Apr 2014


 Korea reeling from last week's ferry disaster, this weekend Air Force One moves onto the Philippines - rebuilding after  Typhoon Haiyan  - and Malaysia still searching for missing flight MH370. It will be the first visit to Kuala Lumpur by a US president for  









7 Days, 4 Countries, 5 Things to Watch As Obama Returns to Asia

Tue, 22 Apr 2014


 earthquake off the coast of Japan triggered a powerful tsunami and nuclear meltdown. A powerful super typhoon last November –  Typhoon Haiyan  -- swept across the Philippines, killing more than 6,000 people. And two ongoing disasters – the disappearance of  









5 International Stories You'll Care About This Week

Sat, 12 Apr 2014


 Australia's most endangered animal, is seen grazing for food, Sept. 11, 2009 at the Sydney Wildlife World. Four months after  Typhoon Haiyan  killed more than 6000 people in the Philippines, one million volunteers next week will begin rebuilding homes, schools  









Colorado's DigitalGlobe Says It Found 'Objects' in Malaysia Airlines Search

Thu, 20 Mar 2014


 any sign of the missing airliner. Anything that raises interest can be tagged for further review. Previous Success When  Typhoon Haiyan  struck the Philippines in November 2013, DigitalGlobe activated a global crowdsourcing campaign. The company said users  






Crowdsourcing the Search for Malaysia Flight 370

Mon, 10 Mar 2014


 the aftermath of ice storms in Atlanta Georgia. In November, the company launched a similar crowdsourcing campaign after  Typhoon Haiyan  devastated Southeast Asia. The company says users placed more than 400,000 tags, identifying 38,000 damaged buildings  









Pictures of the Year International

Tue, 25 Feb 2014


 woman holds her young child in an area of Tacloban, Philippines, that was devastated by  Typhoon Haiyan  in this picture taken Nov. 30, 2013.  Typhoon Haiyan , know to locals as Yolanda, was one of the strongest recorded storms to make landfall  






John Dingell's Congress: A Lot Has Changed Since 1955

Mon, 24 Feb 2014


 events Warsaw pact, US Military Intervention in Iran, Hurricane Diane, Flight 629 explosion, UK National Rail Strike  Typhoon Haiyan , Syrian chemical weapons, U.S. government shutdown, Boston Marathon Bombing, Nelson Mandela death, Nairobi mall  









John Kerry Calls Climate Change a 'Weapon of Mass Destruction'

Sun, 16 Feb 2014


 Kerry said. "Make climate change an issue that no public official can ignore another day." Kerry cited the intense  Typhoon Haiyan , which killed thousands in Indonesia, as the kind of severe storms the country can expect if climate change worsens  









Mother Nature Wreaked Havoc This Year

Fri, 20 Dec 2013


 tornadoes, to deadly wildfires, this was a year of extremes. Oh my god! Announcer: The worstrm of the year,  super typhoon haiyan , philippines in november, destroying nearly everything in its path, killing over 5,000 people. Like a thousand  









13 Unforgettable Things About the Year 2013

Thu, 19 Dec 2013


 year hit the Philippines on Nov. 8, destroying nearly everything in its path and leaving more than 5,000 people dead.  Typhoon Haiyan  was one of the strongest storms ever recorded in history. Halfway across the world in the United States, only one tropical  






Justin Bieber Visits Philippines to Help Typhoon Haiyan  Victims

Tue, 10 Dec 2013

Pop singer Justin Bieber visited the Philippines Tuesday to help victims of  Typhoon Haiyan . The storm claimed thousands of lives and caused millions of dollars of damage to the country in early November. Bieber, 19  









4 Ways to Avoid Charity Scams

Sun, 24 Nov 2013


 impossible to see the devastation in the Philippines after  Typhoon Haiyan  , or in the Midwest after last weekend's tornadoes, and  ..... money. Read More: 3 Things to Consider Before Donating to  Typhoon Haiyan  Relief Charities 2. Take the long way there It's so easy  






Kim Kardashian Under Fire for Charity Donation

Sat, 23 Nov 2013


 The starlet is auctioning off thousands of dollars worth of clothing and accessories on EBay to support the victims of  Typhoon Haiyan . "The proceeds will go directly to the communities they're serving in the Philippines and will help typhoon survivors  






US Swears in New Ambassador to Typhoon-Weary Philippines

Thu, 21 Nov 2013


 Philippines, after Secretary of State John Kerry swore in Philip Goldberg today at State Department ceremony. When  Super Typhoon Haiyan  hit this month, the United States began its aid effort without an ambassador in Manila: Ambassador Harry Thomas  










« Prev12Next »


More Typhoon Haiyan VideosMore Typhoon Haiyan Photos













 









Related Topics


Extreme Weather


Weather


Laos


Japan Tsunami


Japan Earthquake


Philippines


Pope Francis


Gene Therapy


Pope Sexual Abuse Scandal


Nuclear Meltdown


Palau












Hot Topics


India


Yemen


New England Patriots


John Kerry


Sarah Palin


King Abdullah


Microsoft


European Central Bank


Jennifer Lopez


Boko Haram


Will Ferrell


Saudi Arabia


Pope Francis


Jeff Gordon


Roger Federer


Serena Williams


Seattle Seahawks


Tom Brady


Kobe Bryant


Barack Obama












 

























