Justin Bieber Visits Philippines to Help Typhoon Haiyan Victims - ABC News 
Justin Bieber Visits Philippines to Help Typhoon Haiyan Victims - ABC News









ABC News Blogs
							 > Entertainment
			> Celebrities

Celebrities


Headlines
Politics
Entertainment
Health
Lifestyle
Business
Technology
 







Justin Bieber Visits Philippines to Help Typhoon Haiyan Victims





 
			
Email



Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print










 By Michael Howard @MichaelHowardTVFollow on Twitter  Dec 10, 2013 6:41am



AP Photo


Pop singer Justin Bieber visited the Philippines Tuesday to help victims of Typhoon Haiyan. The storm claimed thousands of lives and caused millions of dollars of damage to the country in early November.
Bieber, 19, arrived to the country on a special flight, Immigration officer Jerome Ollet said, according to the Associated Press. Bieber’s visit is a part of the teen pop star’s ongoing efforts to offer relief to those impacted by the typhoon.
Bieber posted a photo a few weeks ago on his Instagram page where he posed next to a sign that read “Pray 4 Philippines” with his initials at the bottom.

The singer then posted a video on his Facebook page on Dec. 4 asking for his fans help with giving back to the Philippines. “The moment I heard about the tragedy a few weeks back,” Bieber said, “I thought I can count on you guys to make a difference.” Those that donate to the singer’s cause will be entered for a chance to meet and hang out with the Canadian singer at a recording studio, Bieber said in the video.
Bieber has risen more than $600,000 dollars so far that will go to charities like UNICEF, Action Against hunger, and the Philam Foundation. His goal is to raise $1 million according to the fundraising website. During the singer’s visit to the country he performed an exclusive concert in Tacloban according to local media reports.
About to go perform the last #believetour show. The real last one and the most important one of the tour. #GiveBackPhilippines — Justin Bieber (@justinbieber) December 10, 2013 

SHOWS: Good Morning America





 
			
Email



Smaller Font
Text
Larger Text
|
Print

















 
 
 




 

You are using an outdated version of Internet Explorer.  Please click here to  upgrade your browser in order to comment.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus  
 

About CelebritiesCelebrity gossip, red carpet moments and the latest fashion trends. Categories 
Celebrities

Fashion

Movies

Music

Oscars

Royals

TV


  Top Posts 
Why Drew Barrymore Is Ready for 40
‘The Walking Dead’ Still Dead to 2015 Golden Globes: 7 Snubs and Surprises
21st Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards Nominations Complete List
James Earl Jones Having ‘Fascinating’ Time in Return to Broadway
Meryl Streep Explains Why She Took the Witch Role in ‘Into the Woods’

You might also like 

Top Stories on ABC NewsOfficials Say Bombings Kill 15 in Iraq's Capital, BaghdadRomanians Protest Swiss Franc Loans RepaymentsTalks in Yemen Between Political Parties, Rebels Break DownUkraine: Phone Calls Prove Rebels Attacked City, Killed 30Obama to Seek Wilderness Designation for Alaska RefugeSubscribe 

RSS




Twitter
Facebook





  


 





















