Super Typhoon Haiyan: '10,000 Could Be Dead' 
Super Typhoon Haiyan: '10,000 Could Be Dead'



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Super Typhoon Haiyan: '10,000 Could Be Dead'

The race is on in the Philippines to help survivors as nearly a million in Vietnam fled their homes ahead of the storm's arrival.


23:53, UK, 
Sunday 10
November 2013















Play video "Typhoon Leaves At Least 10,000 Dead"










Video:
Typhoon Leaves At Least 10,000 Dead











Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






At least 10,000 people are thought to have been killed in the Philippine city of Tacloban by Typhoon Haiyan, officials believe.

A further 300 are confirmed dead with 2,000 missing in the neighbouring island of Samar.
Up to 4.3 million people are said to have been directly affected by the typhoon's path and the death toll is expected to rise further as rescuers reach cut-off areas.
If the death toll estimate by government officials is confirmed, it would be the deadliest natural catastrophe on record in the Philippines.




Coffins are left on a street

Up to 70-80% of homes have been destroyed in Tacloban and other areas in the typhoon's path, according to Justin Morgan of Oxfam.
Interior Secretary Manuel Roxas said: "From a helicopter, you can see the extent of devastation. From the shore and moving a kilometre inland, there are no structures standing. It was like a tsunami.








Play video "Relatives Pray For Typhoon Victims"










Video:
Relatives Pray For Typhoon Victims


"I don't know how to describe what I saw. It's horrific."
Most of the dead are understood to have drowned or were crushed by collapsed buildings. Many corpses hung on tree branches, buildings and in the roads.
"On the way to the airport we saw many bodies along the street," said Philippine-born Australian Mila Ward, 53, who was waiting at the Tacloban airport to catch a military flight back to Manila.
"They were covered with just anything - tarpaulin, roofing sheets, cardboards," she said. Asked how many, she said, "Well over 100 where we passed."
But the destruction extended well beyond Tacloban, a city of 200,000. Officials are yet to make contact with Guiuan, a town of 40,000 that was first hit by the typhoon.
Baco, a city of 35,000 people in Oriental Mindoro province, was 80% under water, the UN said.
The Philippines has limited resources on its own to deal with a disaster of this magnitude, say experts.
US Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel has directed the military's Pacific Command to deploy ships and aircraft to support search-and-rescue operations and airlift emergency supplies.
But the command is headquartered in Hawaii, with one carrier group currently in port in Hong Kong, so it is thought it will be some days before it reaches the affected area.
The European Commission has released 3m euros ($4m; £2.5m) in emergency funds and is sending a team of humanitarian experts.
The UK is providing £6m in emergency humanitarian aid. A team of four experts has already been sent to the country.
Prime Minister David Cameron telephoned Philippine president Benigno Aquino III to offer the UK's full support and thoughts.

1/75










Gallery: Faces Of Storm's Brutal Aftermath
A man surveys felled trees in an area devastated by Typhoon Haiyan in Palo township.











































































































































































































































Haiyan was one of the strongest tropical storms ever to have made landfall, lashing the Philippines with wind gusts of 170mph (275kph) and whipping up a storm surge which swallowed coastal towns and villages.
Although the storm weakened to a category one hurricane when it hit northern Vietnam, with 75mph (120kmph) winds, there are fears that many other people could be affected.
Nearly a million people were evacuated from central provinces before the path of Haiyan turned further north.
The typhoon passed very close to the Chinese island of Hainan, where a further 130,000 people were relocated.
Six people died during Vietnamese evacuations and six are missing off China after authorities lost contact with their cargo boat.
About 100,000 Britons visit Vietnam every year and the Foreign Office is advising travellers to follow advice from local authorities as well as having teams on standby.
Tacloban, a city of 220,000 people south of Manila, bore the brunt of Haiyan in the Philippines. Bodies have been seen floating in roads covered with debris from fallen trees, tangled power lines and flattened homes.
"The dead are on the streets, they are in their houses, they are under the debris, they are everywhere," said Tecson John Lim, a Tacloban city administrator.
Among those feared dead is an Australian ex-priest Kevin Lee, who moved to the Philippines after blowing the whistle on abuse in the Catholic Church in his home country, it has been reported.
The previous deadliest disaster to hit the Philippines was in 1976, when a tsunami triggered by a magnitude 7.9 earthquake killed between 5,000 and 8,000 people.
  Related Stories  Super Typhoon Haiyan: Thousands Feared Dead  Super Typhoon Haiyan Hits The Philippines 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah Dies In Hospital









Japan Hostage's Mother Pleads For Son's Life









Police Still Probing Leon Brittan Rape Claim









Greece Poll: Syriza Vows To End 'Humiliation'









Video: Crew Winched From Sinking Boat












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









