Philippines Typhoon: UN Launches Aid Appeal 
Philippines Typhoon: UN Launches Aid Appeal



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Philippines Typhoon: UN Launches Aid Appeal

Typhoon Bopha killed at least 600 people and left many more missing after floods and landslides hit the country.


12:05, UK, 
Monday 10
December 2012











President Benigno Aquino III said the typhoon caused a national calamity










Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






More than 600 people have now been killed as a result of Typhoon Bopha in the Philippines, which has left millions more without food and shelter.

At least 900 people remain missing, including 300 fishermen as landslides and floods obliterated entire communities in the south of the country.
Civil defence chief Benito Ramos said the fishermen were headed to the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea and to the Pacific Ocean.
Many of those missing could be among the hundreds of unidentified bodies, many of them bloated beyond recognition, Mr Ramos said.




Typhoon-affected residents scramble to get relief assistance in New Bataan

The United Nations has launched a £40m ($65m) global aid appeal to help the thousands affected.
The UN will provide an immediate aid package as well as long-term support for the southern region of Mindanao which has been hardest hit by Typhoon Bopha.
"Five million people were affected and they need express assistance," Imogen Wall, spokeswoman for the UN, has said.
"Priority needs are food, water and shelter but there's also a big emphasis on helping people's livelihood," she said.
The region will need sustained assistance for at least six months, she added.
A number of villages are still completely cut off and not receiving any aid a week after the typhoon struck.
Nearly 400,000 people have lost their homes and are crowded inside evacuation centres.
Relief workers have reported looting of shops in at least one hard-hit town on Mindanao's east coast. Homeless people without a space in government shelters have been reduced to begging on roadsides.
A 5.8 magnitude earthquake that struck the typhoon-devastated region on Monday showed the precarious situation survivors face, although the quake was too deep to cause any damage.
  Related stories  Philippines: Storm Hits Days After Typhoon  Philippines Typhoon: Deadly Scale Becomes Clear  Typhoon Bopha: 40 Dead In Philippines 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Breaking News: Greek Election: Syriza Party Leads Exit Polls









Alexis Tsipras: A Profile Of Syriza's Leader









Father Overwhelmed By Japanese Hostage 'Death'









Woman At Centre Of IS Prisoner Swap Demand









Farage Fights Back After MEP Defects To Tories












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









