Philippines: Storm Hits Days After Typhoon 
Philippines: Storm Hits Days After Typhoon



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Philippines: Storm Hits Days After Typhoon

Storm alerts are issued for northern provinces days after Typhoon Bopha devastated the south of the country.


07:53, UK, 
Sunday 09
December 2012











A woman pictured carrying her child along a flooded road earlier this week










Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






A storm is set to reach land in northern parts of the Philippines just five days after the year's strongest typhoon killed 540 people in the south.

The country’s weather bureau issued storm alerts for northern provinces on the main island of Luzon, as greatly reduced winds of about 35mph changed course back towards land after heading into the South China Sea.
Typhoon Bopha first hit land on Tuesday with winds stronger than Hurricane Sandy that devastated the US East Coast in October.
Residents in typhoon-hit areas on southern Mindanao island have been appealing for food, water and other relief supplies.




Typhoon Bopha devastated the country

On Saturday, President Benigno Aquino declared a state of national calamity in the typhoon-hit areas to control prices of basic commodities and allow local governments to draw special calamity funds for relief operations.
The official death toll rose to 540 people and nearly 850 are still missing, mostly in the Mindanao provinces of Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental. More than 1,000 were injured and about 370,000 are in temporary shelter areas.
"They have neglected us," said farmer Cresencia Blanco, 57. "They are focused on New Bataan," she added, referring to another town in the valley.
"Since the typhoon struck, we only got a total of four kilos of rice, that's all."
Benito Ramos, executive director of the national disaster agency, said the United States had offered to send transport planes and helicopters to help bring food supplies to remote and isolated areas.
Security forces were sent to guard government warehouses and commercial centres to prevent looting after people raided a rice warehouse in a coastal area in Davao Oriental province.
Humanitarian agencies said some 5.4 million people affected by the typhoon urgently need food, potable water and shelter after Bopha wiped out 90% of houses in the worst-hit towns in Compostela Valley and Davao Oriental.
Donations from the international community have poured in, with US Defense Secretary Leon Panetta also ordering the Pacific Command to support relief and rescue operations.
  Related Stories  Philippines Typhoon: Deadly Scale Becomes Clear 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Father Overwhelmed By Japanese Hostage 'Death'









UKIP MEP Defects To Conservative Party









Barack Obama Lands In India For Visit









Recovered Ebola Nurse 'Happy To Be Alive'









Greece's Snap Election: Voters Go To The Polls












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









