Japan Typhoon: Deaths And Evacuations 
Japan Typhoon: Deaths And Evacuations



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Japan Typhoon: Deaths And Evacuations

Tropical storm Man-yi, which brought with it wind speeds of 100mph, saw hundreds of thousands of people told to leave their homes.


15:44, UK, 
Monday 16
September 2013








1/12










Gallery: Flooding As Typhoon Hits Japan
An aerial view shows residential areas flooded by the Yura river after tropical storm Man-yi, also known locally as Typhoon No.18, hit in Fukuchiyama, Kyoto prefecture, Japan.























































Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






A powerful typhoon has lashed Japan, bringing with it torrential rain and flooding which left two dead, dozens injured, and hundreds of thousands of people ordered to evacuate.

Tropical storm Man-yi, which brought wind speeds of 100mph, was centred over the city of Miyako, about 350 miles north of Tokyo.
Police and disaster management officials said the body of a 72-year-old woman was dug out of the debris of her home, which was smashed by a mudslide in Shiga prefecture, east of Kyoto.
A 77-year-old woman was found dead in a mudslide in Fukui prefecture.      
In Kyoto, where the city's major Katsura River flooded,  260,000 people were ordered to evacuate.
Hundreds of thousands of others were also ordered to evacuate across Japan.
Aerial views broadcast on Japanese television showed vast areas of muddy water engulfing buildings and land in one residential area.
The Meteorological Agency said the storm dumped an "unprecedented" amount of rainfall in Kyoto and two neighbouring prefectures.




Residential areas were flooded after the typhoon hit in Fukuchiyama

In its wake, residents and shopkeepers were left clearing out mud and debris from their homes and shops.
One woman, who lives near the Katsura River, said: "We had to escape to the second floor. It was just like a river outside. And the road down there was also practically a river, so we couldn't get out."
Meanwhile, trains in Tokyo and its surrounding area were largely suspended and hundreds of flights were grounded.
The government set up an emergency task force to assess damage and support rescue efforts, according to an official from the Prime Minister's Office.
The Defence Ministry has been asked to mobilise relief teams.
In preparation for the heavy rains brought by the typhoon, Tokyo Electric Power Co (Tepco), operator of the crippled Fukushima nuclear power plant, said it released what was believed to be untainted rainwater around the storage tank areas into the ocean in order to avoid flooding.
The plant has been leaking hundreds of tons of contaminated water into the sea since the complex was damaged by an earthquake and tsunami in 2011.
In recent weeks,Tepco has failed to contain several leaks from tanks storing tainted water.
  Related Stories  Japan Tornado: Dozens Injured In Saitama  Fukushima: Japan Builds Ice Wall To Stop Leaks 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Ebola Nurse Leaves Hospital After Recovery









Japan Condemns Apparent Killing Of IS Hostage









PM And Prince Charles Pay Tribute To Saudi King









Man Arrested Over Pub Machete Murder









At Least 30 Dead As Rebels Hit Ukraine Homes












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









