Typhoon Throws Eastern China Into Chaos 
Typhoon Throws Eastern China Into Chaos



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Typhoon Throws Eastern China Into Chaos

Tens of thousands of people in eastern China have been forced out of their homes by Typhoon Fitow.


15:47, UK, 
Monday 07
October 2013















Play video "Storm Ravages South-East China"










Video:
Storm Ravages South-East China











Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






By Mark Stone, Asia Correspondent
A powerful typhoon has made landfall in eastern China forcing tens of thousands out of their homes.

Typhoon Fitow struck Fuding city in Fujian province in the early morning with winds of almost 100mph, then slowed before weakening to a tropical storm, said meteorologists.
At least five people have been killed.
Dramatic TV pictures showed huge waves battering coastal defences. The spectacle drew crowds despite warnings.
"I heard that the tidal bores can be bigger when a typhoon is near. So I came here to watch," one spectator told Chinese TV.
"It was very impressive. I've never seen waves huger than these today," another said.
Soldiers from China's vast army have been drafted in to build levees and to help evacuate residents form their homes.
Across several eastern provinces, half a million people have been moved from their homes as a precaution.
Thousands of fishing boats were ordered back to port as the authorities issued the highest warning - a red alert.
In the neighbouring Zhejiang Province, the flood relief agency has issued detailed figures giving a sense of the scale of the disruption.
They say that 574,000 people have been evacuated and 35,800 fishing boats called back to port.
China's Xinhua News Agency said two people were killed in Wenzhou, including a 55-year-old man who was knocked over on a hill by the wind while heading out to help rescue a stranded fisherman.
It said another three people were electrocuted in the Zhejiang city of Rui'an.
Four other people were reported missing in the province, Xinhua said.
Travel will be disrupted for sometime. The high-speed rail network, which now criss-crosses vast parts of China, has been suspended in both Fujian and Zhejiang.
Power lines are down and flooding is making access for repair teams difficult.
At least 27 flights out of Zhejiang's Wenzhou Airport have been cancelled.
Fitow, named after a Micronesian flower, is the 23rd typhoon to hit China this year. It comes just two weeks after Typhoon Usagi left 25 people dead in southern China.
As predicted, the storm is now weakening as it progresses westwards. Nevertheless, four more provinces are preparing for a few days of high winds, heavy rains and plenty of disruption.





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Breaking News: Greek Election: Syriza Party Leads Exit Polls









Alexis Tsipras: A Profile Of Syriza's Leader









Father Overwhelmed By Japanese Hostage 'Death'









Woman At Centre Of IS Prisoner Swap Demand









Farage Fights Back After MEP Defects To Tories












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









