Japan: Typhoon Wipha Sweeps Through Country 
Japan: Typhoon Wipha Sweeps Through Country



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Japan: Typhoon Wipha Sweeps Through Country

The "once in a decade" typhoon roared up the east coast, setting off mudslides and leading to rivers bursting their banks.


15:48, UK, 
Wednesday 16
October 2013








1/25










Gallery: Homes Wrecked By Japanese Landslide
A man walks near collapsed houses on the Japanese island of Izu Oshima following a landslide brought on by typhoon Wipha.






























































































Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






At least 17 people are reported dead and 50 people missing in a typhoon that caused deadly mudslides and destroyed homes as it swept up Japan's east coast.

The area worst hit by the "once in a decade" typhoon was the Japanese island of Izu Oshima, home to about 8,200 people and lying about 75 miles south of Tokyo where more than 280 homes were destroyed.
More than 30 inches (76cm) of rain fell on the island during a 24-hour period, the most since record-keeping began in 1991.
The rainfall was particularly heavy before dawn, the kind in which "you can't see anything or hear anything," a Japanese meteorologist said.
Television footage showed roads clogged with wreckage and houses with gaping holes smashed into them.
"I heard a crackling sound and then the trees on the hillside all fell over," one woman said. 
Yutaka Sagara, a 59-year-old sushi chef on the east coast of the island, said he spent a sleepless night with colleagues at their company housing.




Residents pay their respect to the body of a victim of the typhoon

Their hillside apartment barely escaped a mudslide that veered off to the side. Later he found out the mudslide had crushed several houses as it flowed to the sea.
"People on this island are somewhat used to heavy rainstorms, but this typhoon was beyond our imagination," he said, speaking by phone.
The storm brought hurricane-force winds and drenching rain to the Tokyo metropolitan area of 30 million people at the peak of the morning rush hour and hundreds of flights were cancelled.
A woman from Tokyo died after falling into a river - her body was found six miles away in Yokohama, police said.
Two sixth-grade boys and another person are missing from Japan's main island of Honshu.
The operator of the Fukushima nuclear plant, Tokyo Electric Power Corp, cancelled all offshore work and secured machinery as the storm approached.
The typhoon, which stayed offshore in the Pacific, sustained winds of 78 mph, with gusts up to 110 mph, before it was downgraded to a tropical storm.
 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








PM To Pay Tribute To Saudi King Amid Flag Row









Breaking News: Teenager Murdered In Pub Machete Attack









Greek Poll: PM Warns Of Election 'Catastrophe'









Man Arrested Over Missing Woman In Dorset









Army Review: Senior Officers Set To Be Axed












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









