Typhoon Hagupit strikes Philippines - Al Jazeera English


Typhoon Hagupit strikes Philippines - Al Jazeera English 
 










































  























al jazeera
menu
 



submit

 
Your account
          
NewsMore
Arts & Culture
Business & Economy
Environment
Health
Humanitarian crises
Media
Poverty & Development
Politics
Science & Technology
War & Conflict

All
Africa
Asia Pacific
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada

Human Rights
Sport
In Pictures
Infographics
Blogs
Weather
#FreeAJStaff
Digital Magazine
FeaturedAnalysis: Hello Bibi, Shalom BarrackHeavy symbolism of Obama's India visit

ProgrammesMoreDocumentaries

Witness
101 East
People & Power
Al Jazeera World
Fault Lines
Lifelines
Viewfinder
The System
Al Jazeera Correspondent
Africa Investigates
Special Series
Discussions

Inside Story
The Stream
Empire
Head to Head
Talk to Al Jazeera
Newsmagazine Shows

The Listening Post
earthrise
The CURE
Counting the Cost
Innovate Africa
TechKnow
reVIEW
FeaturedThe SystemThe Girls of the Taliban

Opinion
Investigations
AboutMoreAl Jazeera English

About Us
Code of Ethics
Press Office
Awards
Connect

Contact Us
Mobile
Social
Channel Finder
Newsletter
Broadcast Schedule
Podcasts
Digital Magazine
Our Network

AJ America
AJ Arabic
AJ Balkans
AJ Turk
AJ Mubasher
AJ Documentary
AJ Center for Studies
AJ Training Center
FeaturedAJ+AJ Learning




 
Topics:
Narendra Modi 
Barack Obama 
India 
ISIL 
Yemen

 



  
#FreeAJStaff
We demand the release of our journalists unjustly jailed in Egypt. Watch Now

"America was never built for black people"
Artist Akon talks about being an African in the US












    EnvironmentTyphoon Hagupit strikes Philippines

Storm weakens while claiming lives, destroying homes and flooding coastal communities in central and eastern provinces.
07 Dec 2014 20:40 GMT | Environment, Humanitarian crises, Asia Pacific, Philippines

Typhoon Hagupit has killed at least three people, destroyed homes and and flooded coastal communities across the eastern and central Philippines, affecting millions of people.
The storm moved in from the Pacific Ocean and struck remote fishing communities on Samar island on Saturday night, but weakened from 210km to 165km an hour as it continued its path through the country on Sunday.
The wind strength made Hagupit the most powerful storm to hit the Philippines this year, exceeding a typhoon in July that killed more than 100 people.












Weather forecast on Typhoon Hagupit





In a span of just 24 hours, the storm brought 396mm of rain, which is equivalent to half a month of precipitation.
Two people, including a baby girl, died of hypothermia in central Iloilo province at the height of the typhoon, officials said.
Another person died after being hit by a falling tree in the eastern town of Dolores, where the typhoon first made landfall, according to Mar Roxas, interior secretary.
Two women were injured when the tricycle taxi they were riding was struck by a falling tree in central Negros Oriental province.
"Tin roofs are flying off, trees are falling and there is some flooding," Stephany Uy-Tan, the mayor of Catbalogan, a major city on Samar, told AFP news agency.
According to reports from news agencies and local media, close to a million people had fled to shelters in areas along the path of the typhoon.
So far, the provinces of Albay, Camarines Sur and Masbate have declared emergency.
Al Jazeera's Andrew Thomas, reporting from the capital Manila, said that the storm had made another landfall in the central island of Masbate, but had slightly weakened as it moved northwest.
Witnesses in Masbate told him that roads had been blocked from typhoon debris, making it difficult to deliver food packages to evacuees.
Lessons of Haiyan
In a statement to Al Jazeera, the UN office in Manila said the humanitarian needs in the Philippines would not be fully known until Hagupit passed over.
Fearful of a repeat of last year when Supertyphoon Haiyan claimed more than 7,350 lives, the government launched a massive evacuation effort to provide shelter to people in the path of Hagupit.
"The government is absolutely determined to do this better," Al Jazeera's Thomas said.




Notes from the field



The storm is very powerful right now in the province of Albay. Aside from the strong winds, there's also heavy rain, and the concern right now is the flooding.
 While the wind may not be as strong compared to Haiyan 13 months ago, the storm is slow moving.
So far, there are zero casualties in in Albay, according to Governor Joey Salcedo, who spoke to Al Jazeera.
Meanwhile, at one evacuation centre in Albay, at least a thousand people, mostly women and children, are packed in a government building with limited facilities. Evacuees, some of them with infants, are sitting on cardboard boxes and are camped in hallways and staircases.
Scott Heidler reporting from Albay Province at 0500 GMT Sunday






Hagupit was forecast to take days to cut across the Philippines, passing over mostly poor central regions, while also bringing heavy rain to densely populated Manila, which is slightly to the north.
Al Jazeera's Senior Weather Presenter Steff Gaulter said that as of 0700 GMT on Sunday, Hagupit was tracking westwards.
"Unfortunately the storm is moving very slowly and is not expected to clear the Philippines until 18 GMT on Monday," she said.
"This means that the storm will be over the country for a prolonged period and this will exacerbate the flooding problems."
Tens of millions of people live in Hagupit's path, including those in the central Philippines who are still struggling to recover from the devastation of Haiyan, which hit 13 months ago.
As day broke on Sunday, many areas across the eastern Philippines were uncontactable and it was impossible to know how badly they were damaged, Gwendolyn Pang, Red Cross secretary-general, said.
In those that were reachable, residents and officials reported terrifying winds and waves that destroyed homes, although with most people in evacuation centres there were hopes casualties would be few.
In Tacloban, one of the cities worst-hit by Haiyan, palm-thatch temporary houses built by aid agencies for survivors of last year's typhoon had been torn apart, Jerry Yaokasin, Tacloban's vice mayor, said.
There was no repeat of the storm surges that did the most damage during Haiyan, known locally as Yolanda.
"There is a collective sigh of relief. The initial assessment is that there are no casualties. We were better prepared after Yolanda, up to 50,000 people were packed in evacuation centres," he said.
The Philippines endures about 20 major storms a year which, along with regular earthquakes and volcano eruptions, make it one of the world's most disaster-plagued countries.






A man holds on to a pole in Legazpi in Albay province [AP]


Source: Al Jazeera and agencies

 RelatedIn Pictures: Typhoon Hagupit
The storm has landed in the Philippines, destroying homes, downing trees and forcing thousands to flee from villages.
Weather, Asia Pacific, Philippines, FloodsFilipinos take more risks after Haiyan
Thousands of fishing men and women say they have no other choice but to head further out to sea a year after Haiyan.
Environment, Humanitarian crises, Philippines, Asia Pacific 


            Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
            are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
            or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
            global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
            accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.
     




    Featured
Q&A: Jailed Saudi blogger's wife calls for his release
Wife of Raif Badawi, a blogger sentenced to 10 years in Saudi Arabia and 1,000 lashes, says he is a "peaceful person".
Human Rights, Politics, Saudi Arabia

Profile: Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud 
Salman, defence minister since 2011, takes the throne at age of 79 after demise of his half-brother King Abdullah.
Politics, Middle East, Saudi Arabia

France's growing income inequality problem
As the world's elite gather at the World Economic Forum in Davos, many Paris citizens struggling just to get by.

Greece election: The left's austerity showdown
Main opposition Syriza party's platform of delaying debt repayment aims to sweep vote and undo austerity hardship.
Politics, Germany, Greece
    

 Related
In Pictures: Typhoon Hagupit
The storm has landed in the Philippines, destroying homes, downing trees and forcing thousands to flee from villages.
Weather, Asia Pacific, Philippines, Floods

Filipinos take more risks after Haiyan
Thousands of fishing men and women say they have no other choice but to head further out to sea a year after Haiyan.
Environment, Humanitarian crises, Philippines, Asia Pacific
     Latest News
Greece exit polls show victory for left-wing Syriza 
Exit polls at close of voting show result set to bring in a government led by the anti-austerity left-wing Syriza party.
Politics, Europe, Greece

Boko Haram launches offensive on Nigeria's Maiduguri
Armed group also attacks northern town of Monguno, as US secretary of state arrives in country for talks with president.
War & Conflict, Africa, Nigeria, Boko Haram, John Kerry
    Most viewed

France To be or not to be 'Charlie'?
Reporting the Baga massacre
Hollywood shoots Arabs The movie
Who are Saudi Arabia's new crown princes?
Return to Morocco
A slap in the face reveals a lot about Mexico
Voting under way in Greece's snap general election
Obama declares nuclear 'breakthrough' during India trip
Nigerian vigilantes aim to rout Boko Haram
Hidden state Inside North Korea




 Programme HighlightsFault LinesHidden state: Inside North KoreaFault Lines gains rare access into North Korea and examines the impact of US policies on the secretive nation.
	
Politics, Environment, US & CanadaPeople & PowerPhosphate fantasies	The damaging health effects of Tunisia's phosphate mines on workers who hoped the Arab Spring would bring change.Health, Politics, TunisiaWitnessBeauty Behind BarsCan a beauty contest restore the dignity and hope of Colombian women put behind bars because of drugs and violence? Arts & Culture, Latin America, ColombiaAl Jazeera WorldReturn to MoroccoThe story of Morocco's Jewish community told from the perspective of those who have left, stayed or are now returning.Politics, War & Conflict, France



 

 


News

Programmes

Opinion

About

Investigations

Video



Facebook

Twitter

Google+

RSS

Podcast

YouTube






					About


About Us

Press Office

Awards

Code of Ethics

Terms and Conditions

Community Guidelines




					Connect


Contact Us

Mobile

Social

Channel Finder

Broadcast Schedule

Podcasts

Newsletter

Digital Magazine






					Our Channels


AJ America

AJ +

AJ Arabic

AJ Balkans

AJ Turk

AJ Mubasher

AJ Documentary




					Our Network


AJ Center for Studies

AJ Forum

AJ Training Center

AJ Film Festival

AJ Learning

AJ Hotel Partners






					 





					© 2015 Al Jazeera Media Network





	 




















