Typhoon Survivors Hunt For Food 'Like Zombies' 
Typhoon Survivors Hunt For Food 'Like Zombies'



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Typhoon Survivors Hunt For Food 'Like Zombies'

Extra police are deployed to prevent looting as shops in areas hit by the devastating power of Haiyan are stripped bare.


19:20, UK, 
Sunday 10
November 2013











A boy wounded by flying debris stares at the ruins of his house










Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






Survivors of the super typhoon that has devastated several islands in the Philippines have begun scavenging for food and looting shops in order to stay alive, witnesses say.

Shopping centres and grocery stores in hard-hit Tacloban have reportedly been stripped of goods as rescuers' efforts to deliver food and water are hampered by severed roads and communications.
"Tacloban is totally destroyed. Some people are losing their minds from hunger or from losing their families," high school teacher Andrew Pomeda, 36, said as he warned of the increasing desperation of survivors.
"People are becoming violent. They are looting business establishments, the malls, just to find food, rice and milk. I am afraid that in one week, people will be killing from hunger."
Witnesses described how survivors are forming long queues at aid stations, waiting desperately for handouts of rice and water.




"Zombie-like" survivors trudge along roads thick with mud

Some sit and stare, covering their faces with rags to keep out the smell of the dead.
One woman, eight months pregnant, described through tears how her 11 family members vanished in the storm, including two daughters.








Play video "Relatives Pray For Typhoon Victims"










Video:
Relatives Pray For Typhoon Victims


"I can't think right now. I am overwhelmed," she said.
During a visit to Tacloban, President Benigno Aquino acknowledged that looting had emerged as a major concern after only 20 out of 390 of the city's police officers turned up for work following the typhoon.
"So we will send about 300 police and soldiers to take their place and bring back peace and order," he said.
"Tonight, an armoured vehicle will arrive and our armed forces will display the strength of the state to put a stop to this looting."
Aid agencies have warned that many of the 480,000 people whose homes have been destroyed by the bludgeoning force of the cyclone face a desperate battle to survive.
"Everything is gone. Our house is like a skeleton and we are running out of food and water. We are looking for food everywhere," said Jenny Chu, a medical student in Leyte.
"Even the delivery vans were looted. People are walking like zombies looking for food. It's like a movie."
Nancy Chang, who was in Tacloblan City on a business trip from China and walked three hours through mud and debris for a military-led evacuation, said: "It's like the end of the world."
Relief efforts are being hampered by the complete destruction of the airport, where seawaters shattered the glass of the airport tower, levelled the terminal and overturned vehicles.
Military aircraft and helicopters, which are in limited supply in the Philippines, are the only way in and out of the city.
Amid the destruction, extraordinary stories of survival are starting to emerge.
Lieutenant Colonel Fermin Carangan of the Philippine Air Force said he and 41 officers were sheltering in their airport office when "suddenly the sea water and the waves destroyed the walls and I saw my men being swept by waters one by one".
He was swept away from the building and clung to a coconut tree with a seven-year-old boy.
"In the next five hours we were in the sea buffeted by wind and strong rain. I kept on talking to the boy and giving him a pep talk because the boy was telling me he was tired and he wanted to sleep."
He finally saw land and swam with the boy to a beach strewn with dead bodies.
He said: "I think the boy saved my life because I found strength so that he can survive."
The World Food Programme said it was airlifting 40 tonnes of high-energy biscuits, enough to feed 120,000 people for a day, as well as emergency supplies and telecommunications equipment.
Aid agencies said relief efforts in the Philippines are stretched thin after a 7.2 magnitude quake in central Bohol province last month and another refugee crisis due to conflict in southern Zamboanga province.
The US embassy in Manila has pledged $100,000 towards relief supplies and the Australian government gave A$390,500 but some expressed anger at the slow pace of rescue efforts. 
  Related Stories  More Than 10,000 Feared Dead After Super Typhoon 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Prince Andrew Addresses Underage Sex Claims









Former Home Secretary Leon Brittan Dies









Shy Leon Brittan Had A Turbulent Career









UK Backpacker Dies On Thai Island Koh Tao









TV Weatherman 'Had Naked Orgy' On School Trip












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









