Typhoon Survivor: Tell My Family I'm Alive 
Typhoon Survivor: Tell My Family I'm Alive



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Typhoon Survivor: Tell My Family I'm Alive

Survivors describe the scenes of devastation after Typhoon Haiyan ripped through the Philippines, killing thousands.


11:13, UK, 
Monday 11
November 2013















Play video "Miracle Baby Born In Typhoon Chaos"










Video:
Miracle Baby Born In Typhoon Chaos











Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






Survivors of Typhoon Haiyan have described their desperate need for food and medicine after losing everything in the storm.

One woman, eight months pregnant, described through tears how her 11 family members vanished in the storm - which devastated parts of the Philippines - including two daughters.
"I can't think right now. I am overwhelmed," she said.
Erika Mae Karakot, a survivor on Leyte island, said: "Please tell my family I'm alive.




Emily Ortega lies amid the debris at the airport in Tacloban

"We need water and medicine because a lot of the people we are with are wounded. Some are suffering from diarrhoea and dehydration due to shortage of food and water."
Another woman said: "I have no house, I have no clothes. I don't know how I will restart my life. I am so confused.








Play video "Relatives Pray For Typhoon Victims"










Video:
Relatives Pray For Typhoon Victims


"I don't know what happened to us. We are appealing for help. Whoever has a good heart, I appeal to you."
Aid agencies have warned that many of the 480,000 people whose homes have been destroyed by the bludgeoning force of the cyclone face a desperate battle to survive.
"Everything is gone. Our house is like a skeleton and we are running out of food and water. We are looking for food everywhere," said Jenny Chu, a medical student in Leyte.
The birth of a baby girl amid the devastation of the typhoon has provided a rare moment of joy for survivors.
Bea Joy Sagales was born at the airport in Tacloban, the city where officials fear at least 10,000 people have perished.
Her mother Emily Ortega, 21, was in a shelter when the storm flooded the city.
She clung to a post to survive and managed to reach the relative safety of the airport, where a military doctor assisted with the birth.

1/75










Gallery: Faces Of Storm's Brutal Aftermath
A man surveys felled trees in an area devastated by Typhoon Haiyan in Palo township.











































































































































































































































Cheers broke out in the terminal when it became clear the birth - described as "near miraculous" by officials - had been a success. 
In Tacloban, survivors have been scavenging for food and looting shops in order to stay alive, witnesses say.
"Tacloban is totally destroyed. Some people are losing their minds from hunger or from losing their families," high school teacher Andrew Pomeda, 36, said as he warned of the increasing desperation of survivors.
"People are becoming violent. They are looting business establishments, the malls, just to find food, rice and milk. I am afraid that in one week, people will be killing from hunger."
Witnesses described how survivors are forming long queues at aid stations, waiting desperately for handouts of rice and water.
Some sit and stare, covering their faces with rags to keep out the smell of the dead.
Lieutenant Colonel Fermin Carangan, of the Philippine Air Force, said he and 41 officers were sheltering in their airport office when "suddenly the sea water and the waves destroyed the walls and I saw my men being swept by waters one by one".








Play video "Typhoon Leaves At Least 10,000 Dead"










Video:
Typhoon Leaves At Least 10,000 Dead


He was swept away from the building and clung to a coconut tree with a seven-year-old boy.
"In the next five hours we were in the sea buffeted by wind and strong rain. I kept on talking to the boy and giving him a pep talk because the boy was telling me he was tired and he wanted to sleep."
He finally saw land and swam with the boy to a beach strewn with dead bodies.
He said: "I think the boy saved my life because I found strength so that he can survive."
  Related Stories  Super Typhoon Haiyan: Struggle For Aid Workers 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Breaking News: Greek Election: Syriza Party Leads Exit Polls









Alexis Tsipras: A Profile Of Syriza's Leader









Father Overwhelmed By Japanese Hostage 'Death'









Woman At Centre Of IS Prisoner Swap Demand









Farage Fights Back After MEP Defects To Tories












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









