Typhoon Aid Appeal Amid Urgent Relief Effort 
Typhoon Aid Appeal Amid Urgent Relief Effort



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Typhoon Aid Appeal Amid Urgent Relief Effort

Relief workers battle to help those hit by the typhoon and stop the spread of disease as an international aid operation begins.


23:14, UK, 
Monday 11
November 2013















Play video "Huge Typhoon Aid Effort Under Way"










Video:
Huge Typhoon Aid Effort Under Way











Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






Aid agencies have issued a plea for donations to help the millions of people affected by the catastrophic Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.

Britain will contribute a total of £10m to the relief effort and send Royal Navy warship HMS Daring to provide humanitarian assistance.
Prime Minister David Cameron also said a RAF C-17 aircraft would be deployed, with equipment including forklift trucks, temporary shelters, water purification tablets and blankets on board.
International Development Secretary Justine Greening said the scenes of devastation wrought by the typhoon were "shocking in their scale".
"We know that the survivors, especially vulnerable children and women, now face a grim and uncertain future," she said.




Many of those affected by the disaster need injuries treated

"Britain is determined to stand by the Philippines and we have now pledged a total of £10m to get 800,000 people the food."
The United States is giving £12m and sending marines and equipment to help, while Australia will contribute £6m.

1/22










Gallery: Aerial Shots
These aerial photos of the Philippines show the devastation left behind after Super Typhoon Haiyan ripped through the country. Click through for more images.












































































Japan is sending a 25-member relief team of mostly medical staff, while even Vietnam - itself expected to be hit by the storm - has donated £63,000 and said it "stands by the Philippine people in this difficult situation".
The United Nations said relief teams were on the ground in some of the affected areas, helping some 660,000 displaced survivors.
John Ging, from the UN's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), said: "On this occasion we don't need very much assessment; we know precisely what the needs are when you look at the scale of the devastation."
He said the two main priorities are to feed survivors and to bury the thousands of dead - which he said was urgent in order to avoid outbreaks of "public health disasters."
Aid organisations warned they were being hampered by widespread devastation and Save the Children said it was helping survivors who were having to cope with the "worst possible conditions".








Play video "Millions Hit By Deadly Typhoon"










Video:
Millions Hit By Deadly Typhoon


Lynette Lim of the charity said: "We are working round the clock to offer the basic life essentials to the 4.3 million people we estimate are affected.
"We are witnessing the complete devastation of a city. In Tacloban everything is flattened. Bodies litter the street, many, many of which are children. From what I saw, two out of every five bodies was that of a child.
"Children are particularly vulnerable in disasters. We fear for how many children have been washed away in floods, crushed under falling buildings and injured by flying debris. Many are separated from their families amid the devastation, and all are in desperate need of food, water and shelter."
  Related Stories  Millions Await Help After Typhoon Devastation  Super Typhoon Haiyan: '10,000 Could Be Dead'  Typhoon Haiyan: Briton Helps Families To Safety 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Breaking News: Greek Election: Syriza Party Leads Exit Polls









Alexis Tsipras: A Profile Of Syriza's Leader









Father Overwhelmed By Japanese Hostage 'Death'









Woman At Centre Of IS Prisoner Swap Demand









Farage Fights Back After MEP Defects To Tories












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









