Typhoon Haiyan: Briton Helps Families To Safety 
Typhoon Haiyan: Briton Helps Families To Safety



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Typhoon Haiyan: Briton Helps Families To Safety

Jonathan Fitzpatrick's mother tells Sky News her son was "just working on his human instinct" when he helped children to safety.


14:33, UK, 
Monday 11
November 2013











Jonathan Fitzpatrick was in Ormoc when the typhoon struck  Pic: Facebook










Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






By Sunita Patel-Carstairs, Online Producer
A British man caught up in Typhoon Haiyan has told his family he kicked down doors in his battered hotel to help children and adults escape to safety.

Jonathan Fitzpatrick and four work colleagues initially barricaded themselves in a room when the powerful storm struck the Philippines on Thursday.
They then braved the powerful winds to help others, including families, break out of their rooms and take shelter in a stairwell at the Ormoc Villa Hotel in the city of Ormoc.




The typhoon is believed to have claimed the lives of 10,000 people

Mr Fitzpatrick, who travelled out to the islands in October to work, had lost his mobile phone a fortnight ago, but managed to contact his family via Skype when the typhoon struck.
"It was a frightening experience for him - and for us," his mother Julie told Sky News.

1/75










Gallery: Faces Of Storm's Brutal Aftermath
A man surveys felled trees in an area devastated by Typhoon Haiyan in Palo township.











































































































































































































































"We knew it was a serious typhoon that was headed their way so we didn't know what to expect."
The call was cut off and Mr Fitzpatrick's family did not hear from him again until Saturday morning, when the 23-year-old engineer from Walsall managed to get hold of a phone and sent a text message to his mother and girlfriend to let them know he was safe.
As the typhoon ripped through the Philippines, killing thousands of people, his sister Rachel tweeted: "My brother is in Ormoc Villa hotel, next door to Ormoc Red Cross. His name is Jonathan Fitzpatrick. Please help us find him."








Play video "Locals 'Nonchalant' Before Typhoon"










Video:
Locals 'Nonchalant' Before Typhoon


Mrs Fitzpatrick played down her son's heroics and insisted he did what anyone else would have done in his position.
"Jonathan has walked away from it. There are a lot of people who haven't," she said.
"He was not a hero, just working on his human instinct. In his eyes he has not done anything heroic, he has done normal things.

1/22










Gallery: Aerial Shots
These aerial photos of the Philippines show the devastation left behind after Super Typhoon Haiyan ripped through the country. Click through for more images.












































































"The real heroes are the people out there sorting out this mess now, providing care, food and water."
After the strong winds subsided, Mr Fitzpatrick and his workmates managed to get a ferry to Cebu where they were said to be waiting for arrangements to be made to get them home.
Mrs Fitzpatrick added: "We've been through a terrible experience and are glad he has survived and come out of it safely."








Play video "Looting Fears As Aid Effort Falters"










Video:
Looting Fears As Aid Effort Falters


  Related Stories  Typhoon Haiyan Devastation: New Storm On Way  Typhoon Haiyan: Locals 'Were Not Worried'  Typhoon Survivor: Tell My Family I'm Alive 








Play video "Nov, 2013: Typhoon Haiyan's Path"










Video:
Nov, 2013: Typhoon Haiyan's Path







Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Prince Andrew Addresses Underage Sex Claims









Former Home Secretary Leon Brittan Dies









ECB Triggers €1.1trn Quantitative Easing









Video: Crew Winched From Sinking Boat









UK Backpacker Dies On Thai Island Koh Tao












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









