U.N. Appeals for $301 Million Toward Typhoon Relief - NYTimes.com
U.N. Appeals for $301 Million Toward Typhoon Relief - NYTimes.com





Subscribe NowWant both newspaper deliveryand free, unlimited digital access?50% OFF FOR 12 WEEKSWant unlimited access to NYTimes.com and our apps?99¢ FOR 4 WEEKSSee All SubscriptionsSubscribe






campaign: nyt2014_bar1_digihd_regi_BAU -- 268632, creative: nyt2014_bar1_digihd_BAU_4JQ88_4JQ8F_4JQ8J_4JQ8L -- 396026, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia/philippines-typhoon-haiyan-response.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Asia Pacific





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos










Devastation in the Philippines







U.N. Appeals for $301 Million Toward Typhoon Relief 




Oli Scarff/Getty Images
Oxfam employees prepared and checked aid to be shipped to the Philippines on Tuesday at a warehouse in Bicester, England. 

 

By 
NICK CUMMING-BRUCE and 
RICK GLADSTONE

Published: November 12, 2013    













GENEVA — The United Nations appealed Tuesday for $301 million in emergency assistance to help millions of people in the Philippines affected by the typhoon that struck on Friday.        



  
 Multimedia






Interactive Feature



Pictures of Typhoon Haiyan’s Wrath









Map



Mapping the Destruction of Typhoon Haiyan











On the Ground in Tacloban



On the Ground in Tacloban







Close Video



See More Videos »



 


Related



As the Living Receive Aid, Bodies Remain Uncollected in the Philippines
(November 13, 2013)




Distress Grows for Philippine Typhoon Victims Who Can’t Get Aid, or Out
(November 13, 2013)




The Lede: How to Help Typhoon Victims in the Philippines
(November 11, 2013)






Connect With Us on Twitter
Follow @nytimesworld for international breaking news and headlines.
Twitter List: Reporters and Editors




The appeal came a day after the top United Nations relief official flew to the Philippines to help lead the global response to the powerful typhoon that killed thousands of people in the country’s midsection. Hampered by impassable roads, obliterated seaports and severely damaged airstrips, international aid groups mobilized to rush food, water and sanitation equipment to the region.        
The move by the relief official, Valerie Amos, to lead the U.N. effort came three days after Typhoon Haiyan left a path of destruction across 41 provinces in the Philippines. As the scope of its devastation was starting to become clear, some climate experts said that they believed the storm was the most powerful ever to make landfall.        
United Nations officials in Geneva said more than 11 million people were in need of assistance and around 670,000 people had been displaced. With many communities in the archipelago of 7,100 islands still cut off, the officials said that they do not know the full human toll and that the estimates are provisional.        
The United Nations refugee agency warned that people living in coastal areas remained at risk of further flooding as a result of a new storm making landfall on Tuesday.        
Adrian Edwards, a spokesman for the agency, said damaged roads, bridges and uncleared debris from the storm were making it difficult to deliver urgently needed food, water, medicines, clothing and shelter.        
“There are still many places that are not accessible yet,” Elizabeth Byrs, a spokeswoman for the World Food Program said in Geneva, adding that the agency was chartering vessels to deliver relief goods to islands currently being supplied by military helicopters and civilian aircraft.        
The $301 million appeal is to meet projected needs over six months, but disaster relief experts estimate the damage to the Philippine economy at between $12 billion and $15 billion, equivalent to about 5 percent of its gross domestic product.        
“This is the worst typhoon in the modern history of the Philippines,” said German Velasquez at the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction in Geneva.        
The typhoon had wind speeds of up to 235 miles per hour.        
The Philippines meteorological office had put out hourly warnings that the typhoon would cause a storm surge with waves of up to 22 feet, according to the World Meteorological Office, but few people had anticipated the effects of the surge, Mr. Velasquez said.        
Ms. Amos, the United Nations under secretary general for humanitarian affairs and the emergency relief coordinator, released $25 million from a special fund to help pay for immediate assistance and was beginning what aides called a flash fund-raising drive. At least $35 million in additional aid was pledged by other governments on Monday.        
The effort led by the United Nations came as the United States significantly increased its assistance to the Philippines. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who had ordered 90 Marines and a half dozen aircraft to assist over the weekend, on Monday ordered the aircraft carrier George Washington and other Navy ships in the Pacific “to make the best speed for the Republic of the Philippines.”        
The George Washington, which carries 5,000 sailors and more than 80 aircraft, was ordered to depart from a port visit in Hong Kong, and the crew was recalled from shore leave immediately. Mr. Hagel also reiterated the American intent to help the Philippine government determine “what, if any, additional assets may be required.”        
The Philippine government was grateful for the assistance, but it also appeared anxious to retain basic strategic controls, which may have had the unintended consequence of hampering some relief efforts. The Tacloban airport control tower was destroyed, for example, but the government did not ask the United States military to help manage air traffic control with a temporary replacement setup, as it has sometimes done elsewhere. Without a tower, all pilots flying into Tacloban were forced to land by sight, slowing deliveries.        



 1  2 Next Page » 
Nick Cumming-Bruce reported from Geneva, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Reporting was contributed by Keith Bradsher from Tacloban, the Philippines; Floyd Whaley from Estancia, the Philippines; Austin Ramzy from Cebu, the Philippines; Alan Cowell from London; and Thom Shanker from Washington. 
 









 

















Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics












Typhoon Haiyan (2013)






Humanitarian Aid








United Nations






Amos, Valerie Ann








 












 

 







 

 

 



 

 




 



 






 













 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health &raquo 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2013 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback
















