Thousands flee as Hagupit hits Philippines - Al Jazeera English


Thousands flee as Hagupit hits Philippines - Al Jazeera English 
 










































  























al jazeera
menu
 



submit

 
Your account
          
NewsMore
Arts & Culture
Business & Economy
Environment
Health
Humanitarian crises
Media
Poverty & Development
Politics
Science & Technology
War & Conflict

All
Africa
Asia Pacific
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada

Human Rights
Sport
In Pictures
Infographics
Blogs
Weather
#FreeAJStaff
Digital Magazine
FeaturedAnalysis: Hello Bibi, Shalom BarrackHeavy symbolism of Obama's India visit

ProgrammesMoreDocumentaries

Witness
101 East
People & Power
Al Jazeera World
Fault Lines
Lifelines
Viewfinder
The System
Al Jazeera Correspondent
Africa Investigates
Special Series
Discussions

Inside Story
The Stream
Empire
Head to Head
Talk to Al Jazeera
Newsmagazine Shows

The Listening Post
earthrise
The CURE
Counting the Cost
Innovate Africa
TechKnow
reVIEW
FeaturedThe SystemThe Girls of the Taliban

Opinion
Investigations
AboutMoreAl Jazeera English

About Us
Code of Ethics
Press Office
Awards
Connect

Contact Us
Mobile
Social
Channel Finder
Newsletter
Broadcast Schedule
Podcasts
Digital Magazine
Our Network

AJ America
AJ Arabic
AJ Balkans
AJ Turk
AJ Mubasher
AJ Documentary
AJ Center for Studies
AJ Training Center
FeaturedAJ+AJ Learning




 
Topics:
Narendra Modi 
Barack Obama 
India 
ISIL 
Yemen

 



  
#FreeAJStaff
We demand the release of our journalists unjustly jailed in Egypt. Watch Now

"America was never built for black people"
Artist Akon talks about being an African in the US












    EnvironmentThousands flee as Hagupit hits Philippines

People evacuate coastal areas already devastated by 2013 typhoon as Category 3 storm makes landfall over country's east.
06 Dec 2014 22:23 GMT | Environment, Humanitarian crises, Asia Pacific, Philippines, Weather

A powerful typhoon has brought heavy rains and strong winds to eastern Philippines, toppling trees, overturning tin roofs and cutting power lines in areas still bearing the scars of a super typhoon 13 months ago.
Hagupit -  Filipino for "smash" - moved in from the Pacific Ocean and made landfall over remote fishing communities of Samar island on Saturday night, with wind speeds of up to 210km an hour, according to PAGASA, a local weather agency.
Hagupit had weakened to a Category 3 storm, two notches below "super typhoon", but could still cause huge destruction with heavy rain and storm surges of up to 4.5 metres, PAGASA said.
Al Jazeera meteorologist Everton Fox said much of the Philippines could expect heavy rain.
Hagupit was moving "very, very slowly", and could remain in the typhoon-prone country for two to three days, he said.
Reuters news agency reported that about one million people had already fled to shelters by the time Hagupit made landfall, in what a UN agency said was one of the world's biggest peacetime evacuations.
Coastal areas evacuated
People left coastal villages and landslide-prone areas in Samar and Leyte provinces, areas devastated from last year's super typhoon Haiyan, which killed more than 7,300 people.
The wind strength made Hagupit the most powerful storm to hit the Philippines this year, exceeding a typhoon in July that killed more than 100 people.




 


In November 2013, around 7,000 people were killed when Haiyan hit the Philippines




At least 47 of the country's 81 provinces are potentially at high risk, with weather officials still unclear over its forecasted path. There is no reported casualties yet.
The UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) said about 200,000 people had been evacuated in the central island province of Cebu alone.
"Typhoon Hagupit is triggering one of the largest evacuations we have ever seen in peacetime," Denis McClean, UNISDR's spokesman, said. 
Forecasters said Hagupit will begin rapidly weakening as it approaches land.
"This is it. I know you are tired, not enough sleep, not enough food, too much coffee," Mar Roxas, Philippines' interior secretary, said a few hours before the typhoon's arrival, calling for a final effort to bring more people from vulnerable coastal homes to safe buildings.
"This is our last push. Every person we can save now is one less we have to look for after the typhoon passes."
Roxas was speaking at a nationally televised planning conference from Samar, having based himself in one of the areas expected to be among the first hit so he could oversee preparations there.
Dozens of domestic flights were cancelled and inter-island ferry services were suspended.Source: Agencies

 RelatedPhilippines marks typhoon Haiyan anniversary
Haiyan survivors continue grieving a year after the tropical cyclone hit the Philippines.
Environment, Humanitarian crises, Asia Pacific, Philippines 


            Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
            are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
            or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
            global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
            accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.
     




    Featured
Q&A: Jailed Saudi blogger's wife calls for his release
Wife of Raif Badawi, a blogger sentenced to 10 years in Saudi Arabia and 1,000 lashes, says he is a "peaceful person".
Human Rights, Politics, Saudi Arabia

Profile: Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud 
Salman, defence minister since 2011, takes the throne at age of 79 after demise of his half-brother King Abdullah.
Politics, Middle East, Saudi Arabia

France's growing income inequality problem
As the world's elite gather at the World Economic Forum in Davos, many Paris citizens struggling just to get by.

Greece election: The left's austerity showdown
Main opposition Syriza party's platform of delaying debt repayment aims to sweep vote and undo austerity hardship.
Politics, Germany, Greece
    

 Related
Philippines marks typhoon Haiyan anniversary
Haiyan survivors continue grieving a year after the tropical cyclone hit the Philippines.
Environment, Humanitarian crises, Asia Pacific, Philippines
     Latest News
Greece exit polls show victory for left-wing Syriza 
Exit polls at close of voting show result set to bring in a government led by the anti-austerity left-wing Syriza party.
Politics, Europe, Greece

Boko Haram launches offensive on Nigeria's Maiduguri
Armed group also attacks northern town of Monguno, as US secretary of state arrives in country for talks with president.
War & Conflict, Africa, Nigeria, Boko Haram, John Kerry
    Most viewed

France To be or not to be 'Charlie'?
Reporting the Baga massacre
Hollywood shoots Arabs The movie
Who are Saudi Arabia's new crown princes?
Return to Morocco
A slap in the face reveals a lot about Mexico
Voting under way in Greece's snap general election
Obama declares nuclear 'breakthrough' during India trip
Nigerian vigilantes aim to rout Boko Haram
Hidden state Inside North Korea




 Programme HighlightsFault LinesHidden state: Inside North KoreaFault Lines gains rare access into North Korea and examines the impact of US policies on the secretive nation.
	
Politics, Environment, US & CanadaPeople & PowerPhosphate fantasies	The damaging health effects of Tunisia's phosphate mines on workers who hoped the Arab Spring would bring change.Health, Politics, TunisiaWitnessBeauty Behind BarsCan a beauty contest restore the dignity and hope of Colombian women put behind bars because of drugs and violence? Arts & Culture, Latin America, ColombiaAl Jazeera WorldReturn to MoroccoThe story of Morocco's Jewish community told from the perspective of those who have left, stayed or are now returning.Politics, War & Conflict, France



 

 


News

Programmes

Opinion

About

Investigations

Video



Facebook

Twitter

Google+

RSS

Podcast

YouTube






					About


About Us

Press Office

Awards

Code of Ethics

Terms and Conditions

Community Guidelines




					Connect


Contact Us

Mobile

Social

Channel Finder

Broadcast Schedule

Podcasts

Newsletter

Digital Magazine






					Our Channels


AJ America

AJ +

AJ Arabic

AJ Balkans

AJ Turk

AJ Mubasher

AJ Documentary




					Our Network


AJ Center for Studies

AJ Forum

AJ Training Center

AJ Film Festival

AJ Learning

AJ Hotel Partners






					 





					© 2015 Al Jazeera Media Network





	 




















