Super Typhoon Hagupit: 500,000 Flee As Storm Approaches  - NBC News
Super Typhoon Hagupit: 500,000 Flee As Storm Approaches  - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
Chicago Cubs Legend Ernie Banks Dies at 83
Soaring Hawks Beat Thunder for 15th Straight Win
Durant: 'I Don't Need the All-Star Vote to Validate Me'
Police Shooting Caught on Body Cam







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search




















AP



                                        This Video Player Requires JavaScript

                                        It has come to our attention that the browser you are using is either not running
                                        javascript or out of date. Please enable javascript and/or update your browser if
                                        possible.




                            51 days
                            



News
  
Hundreds of residents take shelter inside the provincial capitol of Surigao city close to central Philippines on Friday, Dec. 5, 2014 in anticipation of typhoon Hagupit which is expected to hit land Saturday afternoon. 
 


Super Typhoon Hagupit: 500,000 Flee As Storm Approaches 



















By Alastair Jamieson

Half a million Filipinos fled their homes as a Super Typhoon Hagupit bore down on the islands, expected to bring with it winds of up to 143 miles per hour and threatening to devastate a region battered by a different hurricane just last year.The vast Category 5-equivalent storm — packing life-threatening wind gusts of up to 143 mph and intense rainfall of up to three-quarters of an inch per hour — is expected to make landfall Saturday.Filipinos were bracing for the typhoon to live up to its name, which is Tagalog for "smash." Many of those evacuated were still living in tents after the devastation caused last year by Super Typhoon Haiyan, which left more than 7,300 people dead and missing."I'm scared," Haiyan survivor Jojo Moro told the Associated Press. "I'm praying to God not to let another disaster strike us again. We haven't recovered from the first."Richard Gordon, chairman of the Philippine Red Cross, which is mobilizing an international rescue plan in case of disaster, said it had moved more than 100,000 people.
















The U.N. Global Disaster Alert System said almost 32 million people — a third of the country's population — were likely to be affected in some way by cyclone-force winds when the storm arrives in central parts of the island nation Saturday afternoon or evening.Hagupit, known locally as Ruby, was downgraded late Thursday to a typhoon after it lost power. However the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, a U.S. military task force based in Hawaii, issued an advisory at 9 a.m. ET Friday restoring super typhoon status after recording estimated gusts of 150 mph.Dozens of domestic flights were canceled and inter-island ferry services were suspended.In Tacloban, where Haiyan's tsunami-like storm surges left thousands dead and wiped out entire villages, the airport was closed on Friday, leaving families to seek help in emergency shelters.Among them was Peachy Nerja, 28, and her mother, father, sister, brother and her sister-in-law and her two young children who came from the nearby town of Tanauan and were staying at the home of work friends."Last time the storm surge almost ate our house and we had to climb up onto the roof," she told NBC News. "People are more prepared this time so there is more co-operation but some are still staying behind because they do not have enough money or do not know where to go."She added: "We are hoping that the destruction will not be as bad as last time, but this is still a very strong storm."Erwin Mascarinas / APHundreds of residents take shelter inside the provincial capital of Surigao in the Philippines on Friday.At least 47 of the country's 81 provinces are considered potentially at high risk. The first one in its path is Eastern Samar province, where it is expected to make landfall. It is then expected to cut across central islands along a route north.Hagupit's slow movement is expected to cause significant problems. The Philippine weather bureau said it could be as late as Wednesday before the storm clears the islands, leading to rainfall totals Sarsalari called "extraordinarily high," causing landslides, debris flows and life-threatening flash floods."Although it's been reported that the typhoon has lost strength, it doesn't mean that our readiness will also weaken," said Alexander Pama, who heads the country's disaster-response agency.NBC News' Erik Ortiz and M. Alex Johnson and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
First published December 5 2014, 6:49 AM



 

 

 

 




Alastair Jamieson


 

 

 

 

 


                                            Alastair Jamieson is a London-based reporter, editor and homepage producer for NBC News. He joined NBCNews.com in 2011 after more than a decade working as a reporter and news editor for British newspapers including The Sunday Telegraph and Daily Telegraph in London and The Scotsman in Edinburgh.
                                        
... Expand Bio












About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

