Typhoon HAGUPIT (RUBY) Update Number 019 | Weather Philippines
Typhoon HAGUPIT (RUBY) Update Number 019 | Weather Philippines
















Beta
 


Home

Dictionary ▿

English
Filipino


News
Weather TV
About
Contact Us













Typhoon HAGUPIT (RUBY) Update Number 019





WEATHER.COM.PH TROPICAL CYCLONE UPDATES
TYPHOON HAGUPIT (RUBY) UPDATE NUMBER 019  Issued at: 2:30 AM PhT (06:30 GMT) Monday 08 December 2014Next Update: Monday Mid-Morning, 08 December 2014
HAGUPIT (RUBY) losing organization as it drifts northwestward across the Ragay Gulf or just along the southern tip of Burias Island...threatens the Southern Tagalog Provinces.
This typhoon will continue to enhance the Northeast Monsoon (Hanging Amihan) - bringing mostly cloudy and windy conditions and cooler temperatures across Northern and Central Luzon...becoming more frequent with possible occasional slight to moderate rains along eastern sections of Cagayan, Isabela, Aurora, and Northern Quezon. The threat of flash floods and landslides are likely in hazard-prone areas especially along river banks and mountain slopes of the affected areas. Residents are advised to take necessary precautions.

Residents and visitors along Southern Luzon and Visayas should closely monitor the development of Hagupit (Ruby).
Information based on data collected by WeatherPhilippines Foundation, Inc. shall not be taken as official data. Weather information broadcasted and distributed by PAGASA remains as official data. WeatherPhilippines shall not be responsible for the private use and reliance of its weather information.
CYCLONE HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
Below are the regions or places in the Philippines that could be affected or that are being affected  by the hazards generated by the  current tropical cyclone.
 

RAINFALL

Heavy to Extreme Rains (100 mm or more): Samar Provinces, Leyte, Sorsogon, Albay, Masbate, Romblon, northern portions of Capiz and Iloilo, extreme northern part of Negros Occidental and Northern Cebu - today until Monday (Dec 08). Read more...
Heavy Rains (100 mm to 150 mm): Southern part of Camarines Sur, Aklan incl. Tablas Is., rest of Capiz and Northern Iloilo, rest of northern part of Negros Occidental, northern portion of Southern Cebu, northern part of Bohol and Southern Leyte - today until  Monday (Dec 08). Read more...
Moderate to Heavy Rains (30-50 mm): Rest of Bicol, Southern Quezon and rest of Visayas incl. Dinagat Is. - today until Monday (Dec 08). Read more...
WINDS

Tropical Storm to Typhoon Force Winds (Gusts of 100-130 kph): Masbate, Sorsogon, Albay, Southern Camarines Sur (Rinconada), Virac, Catanduanes Area, Romblon, Northern Coastal Areas of Panay, portions of Northern Cebu incl. Bantayan Island, Leyte, and some portions of Southern Samar - today. Read more...
Tropical Storm Force Winds (Gusts of 75-100 kph): Camarines Norte, Rest of Camarines Sur incl. Metro Naga, Eatern portions of Southern Quezon incl. Bondoc Peninsula, Marinduque, some portions of Northern Panay, Rest of Northern Cebu, some portions of Central Cebu incl. Cebu City, Southern Leyte, and some portions of Dinagat Islands - today. Read more...
STORM SURGE
Possible coastal storm surge flooding of  1.8-2.6 m (6-8 ft) above normal tide levels...accompanied by large and dangerous battering waves can be expected along the coastal, inland lakes and beach front areas of Western Samar, West Coast of Sorsogon-Albay-Camarines Sur including Masbate, Burias and Ticao Islands, and Romblon today. Moderate damage is likely on this type of storm surge. Danger from Rip Currents or Rip Tides can be expected along the beach-front areas of Rest of Visayas, Ragay Gulf, Visayan Sea and Eastern Luzon. (click here to know more about Storm Surge).

CURRENT CYCLONE INFORMATION
As of 11:00 PM PhT today...1500 GMT...Dec 07.
 


Classification/Name: TY Hagupit (Ruby) 
Location: Over the Southeastern part of Burias Island...or over Ragay Gulf  (near 12.8N 123.4E) 
About: 40 km east-southeast of Burias Island...or 55 km southwest of Legazpi City, Albay
Maximum Sustained Winds (10-min avg): 130 kph near the center...Gustiness: 160 kph
24 hr. Rain Accumulation (near the center outwards): 100 to 350 mm [Heavy to Extreme]
Minimum Central Pressure: 967 millibars (hPa)
Size of Circulation [Convective Cloud-Based, in diameter]: 700 km (Medium)
Area of Damaging Winds (95 kph or more): 85 km from the Center
Past Movement: NW @ 09 kph
Forecast Movement: WNW @ 11 kph
Towards: Sibuyan Sea-Marinduque Area 


2-DAY FORECAST OUTLOOK* 
TY Hagupit (Ruby) is expected to move west-northwestward slowly for the next 24 hours before turning westward throughout the outlook period. On the forecast track, TY Hagupit (Ruby) shall pass over or very close to Marinduque on Monday afternoon and shall be over the Southern Coast of Batangas on Monday evening. It shall then be traversing the Verde Island Passage, across Puerto Galera and Lubang Island by early Tuesday morning...and shall be over the West Philippine Sea on Tuesday evening.
TY Hagupit (Ruby) is expected to continue to weaken, becoming a Tropical Storm (TS) throughout the outlook period as it interacts with the land masses of the southern islands of Luzon and the entrainment of cold-dry air of the Northeasterlies. Advance Intensity Forecast (AIF) shows its 10-minute maximum sustained winds decreasing to 95 kph by Tuesday evening. 
The following is the 3-day forecast outlook summary for this system:
MONDAY EVENING: Weakens into a TS after passing very close to Marinduque...just along the southern coast of Batangas...about 25 km southeast of Batangas City [8PM DEC 08: 13.6N 121.2E @ 110kph]. 
TUESDAY EVENING: Continues losing strength as it emerges over the West Philippine Sea in a westerly direction...about 195 km west of Lubang Island  [8PM DEC 09: 13.7N 118.4E @ 95kph].
WEDNESDAY EVENING: Moving west-southwest as it exits the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR), weakens further...about 270 km north of Pagasa Island [8PM DEC 10: 13.5N 114.7E @ 85kph].
 
*Please be reminded that the Forecast Outlook changes every 6 hours, and the Day 2 and 3 Forecast Track has an average error of 100 and 250 km respectively...while the wind speed forecast error, averages 35 kph per day. Therefore, a turn to the left or right of its future track and changes in its wind speed must be anticipated from time to time.
Important Note: Please keep in mind that the above hazards summary and forecast outlook changes every 6 to 12 hrs!
ADDITIONAL DISTANCES
Time/Date: 11:00 PM PhT Sun Dec 07, 2014Location of Center: Near 12.8º N Lat 123.4º E LonDistance 1: 60 km NNW of Masbate CityDistance 2: 70 km WSW of Sorsogon CityDistance 3: 65 km S of Iriga CityDistance 4: 90 km S of Metro Naga Distance 5: 130 km SSE of Ragay, Camarines SurDistance 6: 185 km ESE of Boac, Marinduque

Issued by: David Michael V. Padua for 
Weather.com.ph 





Platinum sponsors:









Follow us on Facebook and Twitter




Gold sponsors:



















MeteoGroup Apps:






Places to see: Zamboanga City


Located at the southernmost tip of the Zamboanga Peninsula, Zamboanga City is bounded in the north b…

See more




Discover Vigan City.


Vigan is unique among the Philippine towns because it is the country’s most extensive and only sur…

See more










© 2014 MeteoGroup









 
 


