Typhoon Hagupit
Typhoon Hagupit



Main MenuHome
Latest Posts
Archives
Contributors














Navigation


Compassion UK and Ireland Blog
The Blog and Update from Compassion UK and Ireland




Home
Empty Menu

Return to Content








Typhoon Hagupit: A tale of two stories 
By Bekah Legg on 08/12/2014 in Disaster Updates, In the News  0

Hagupit is still howling its way through the Philippines, but wind speeds have now dropped and the weather system has been downgraded to a tropical storm.
As the winds begin to abate it is becoming apparent that there are two tales to tell about this typhoon.
The first is that although at least 21 people have lost their lives, the number of casualties is far lower than many had feared. The government’s evacuation has been a huge success. Interior Secretary Manuel Roxas told a televised government disaster meeting in Samar, “It is sad to hear news of deaths, but this is very low, way below what the potential was.” In some areas, Tacloban for example, the sun is now shining and people are returning home.
The second story is one of enormous challenge as people return to their homes, or what used to be their homes.
Power lines, trees and homes have all been flattened in the 90 mph winds that tore through the eastern provinces and many areas are under water. Proceso Alcala, the farm minister, said initial reports put crop and farm infrastructure damage at 1 billion pesos (£14 million). Much of this season’s rice crop is underwater.
The truth is, that in these situations it is always the poor who are most affected. It is the poor who have flimsy houses built out of scavenged bits of wood that blow down in the wind. It is the poor who live on the cheap land nearest the sea and are at threat of tidal surges. It is the poor who are dependent on cheap local food that is taken out by adverse weather. Resilience is expensive.
Compassion is working on the ground to live out Isaiah 25:4 They have quite literally been “A refuge for the poor, a refuge for the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm.” The strong, safe buildings that Compassion has helped to construct in the year since Typhoon Haiyan, have provided shelter for evacuees, a tower to run to as it were.
Now, local church partners are out checking on the families they work with, assessing their needs and providing relief where possible. The country office is assembling a response team ready to go out into remote communities to provide relief items, medical support and man power to help with the clean up.
At the heart of all this action are the children that we work with and you sponsor. The children who have just lived through their second typhoon in 13 months.
 
   




About Bekah Legg
		I am Media and PR manager at Compassion UK. I believe that God’s intention is to see his people live free from abuse, slavery and the confines of poverty. As a follower of Jesus I feel compelled to use my voice to share the freedom that I have been given; to raise my voice to speak for those who are not heard.
As well as working for Compassion UK, I am the editor of Liberti magazine and kept on my toes at home by five fabulous girls and a husband who sings ‘The sun will come out tomorrow’ when he thinks I look like I’m at the end of my tether. This rarely helps. @libertimagazine				

				View all posts by Bekah Legg → 




 #rubyPh, children, disaster, floods, hagupit, philippines, relief, response, Typhoon 


 Christmas is about a gift
Praying for the Philippines 


No comments yet. 
Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply.

Name (required) 
Email (will not be published) (required) 
Website
Comment  




 



 
Find Us Online

Get our email updates, subscribe to the blog feed or follow the Compassion UK blog on social media!

















 
Guvna B – Odd 1 Out tour




Rend Collective Interview




Ben Cantelon Interview




Tony Campolo





 

Latest
Popular Comments Tags 




No longer abandoned – a mother’s tale
23/01/2015



 Remembering Haiti, 5 years on
12/01/2015



 A new Compassion home!
10/01/2015



 What difference does child sponsorship make to a mother living in poverty?
08/01/2015



 10 ways that you will make a difference this year
06/01/2015





 The Final Letter
15/05/2012



 Quiz the CEO
02/04/2012



 How they write
20/10/2011



 What Does God Think About Our Worship? By Vicky Beeching
27/02/2012



 From Kibera Slum to Nottingham University
16/04/2012





 bablu kumar masih: i Bablu kumar masih from kakari indaso Balli India...



A new Compassion home!: […] Sponsored children can move from one Com...



 Darren Allwright: Hello Michelle,

This is great news that you're...



 Chris Price: Thank you for this information. I found it very in...



 Michelle Ives: Just the thought of being part of such a wonderful...




advocacy
africa
bible
blood sweat and compassion
brazil
child poverty
children
child sponsorship
child survival programme
christmas
church
compassion
compassion uk
education
football
ghana
gift
God
haiti
hope
india
Jesus
kenya
kibera slum
kilimanjaro
ldp
leadership development programme
letters
letter writing
meet sponsored child
mother
nairobi
philippines
photo
photo friday
poverty
prayer
present
project information
project timetable
project visit
respond
sponsorship
tanzania
words 


 






Compassion UK 43 High Street, Weybridge, Surrey KT13 8BB, UK
T: +44 (0)1932 836490 | F: +44 (0)1932 831275
E: info@compassionuk.org
Registered Charity No. 1077216.
Registered in England No. 3719092.

 

Compassion Ireland Suite 3, Eden Gate Centre, Delgany, Co. Wicklow, Ireland
T: 01 5133719
E: info@compassion.ie
Registered Charity No. CHY 19426.
Registered Company No. 493955.

 







© 2015 Compassion UK and Ireland Blog. All Rights Reserved.  

Cookies & Privacy • Sitemap 





 








