Typhoon Hagupit - OpenStreetMap Wiki
Typhoon Hagupit - OpenStreetMap Wiki






Typhoon Hagupit

From OpenStreetMap Wiki
(Redirected from Humanitarian OSM Team/Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby))

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) - Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team Activation Wiki
Dec 5. HOT officially activated to support the Philippine Government and the international organizations that will respond to this humanitarian emergency.

Dec 10. HOT decides to continue activation for one more week to ensure all aspects of the response are covered

Dec 17. HOT officially Deactivates, however HOT will continue to support Priority Mapping Tasks to help the OSM-PH Community.


 Satellite image of Typhoon Ruby on 4th December, 2014
 Actual Track of Typhoon Ruby until it was downgraded into a Tropical Depression on 9th December, 2014 + Remote Mapping tasks



Contents

1 Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) - Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team Activation Wiki
2 Activation

2.1 Status
2.2 Coordination
2.3 Published Tasks in the Task Manager
2.4 Tracking
2.5 Useful Tools
2.6 Identified Risks
2.7 Support Team
2.8 Mapping Effort Required
2.9 Imagery Partners
2.10 Timeline of Activity


3 Humanitarian Mapping

3.1 Mapping Standards
3.2 Validating Tips
3.3 How YOU can Contribute and Help
3.4 Tools and Services Available
3.5 New Mappers
3.6 Mappers with Experience
3.7 Maps Available

3.7.1 General Info
3.7.2 On-site maps




4 Communication and Media

4.1 Communication

4.1.1 Hash Tags
4.1.2 Information and Contacting People Involved


4.2 Media







Activation


Status


Typhoon Ruby is a tropical cyclone that is currently impacting the Philippines,  however it weakened to a category 3 typhoon before it made Landfall at 9:15pm Saturday 6th December 2014 (Local Time) at the town of Dolores, eastern Samar. 
Less disastrous than Typhoon Haiyan last year.  So far only 23 reported deaths due to hypothermia.
Ruby weakened before making landfall, reducing the humanitarian impact. The low death toll is also widely regarded as a success in disaster response, particularly with better coordinated mass evacuations. However families have returned to find themselves homeless, or effected by the infrastructural damage. Of course we are providing free maps, and we can work on improving our mapping to aid in recovery.



Coordination


Mark Cupitt and Maning Sambale, assisted by Andrew Buck and Pierre Béland, are coordinating this activation. We coordinate with OCHA, the Red Cross / Red Crescent and the Digital Humanitarian Network partners.




Published Tasks in the Task Manager






   Job No.     

 Location

 What to map

 Task Mapping Status


 Job 798 
 Eastern Samar 
 roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes from HIU/MapGive imagery 
 Validation - in progress


 Job 799 
 Northern Samar 
 roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes from Bing imagery 
 In Progress


 Job 801 
 Eastern Samar 
 roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes from Bing imagery 
 In Progress


 Job 804 
 Masbate 
 roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes from Bing imagery 
 In Progress


 Job 807 
 North West Samar Islands 
 roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes from Hiu/MapGive imagery 
 Validation - In Progress


 Job 808 
 East Coast - Borongan 
 roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes from HIU/MapGive imagery 
 Validation - In Progress


 Job 805 
 Northern Samar 
 roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes from HIU/MapGive imagery 
 In Progress


 Job 837 
 Can-Avid, Dolores, San Policarpio, Arteche, Oras Eastern Samar 
 roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes from SkyEye UAV imagery 
 In Progress





Tracking


The following sites have tracking information for monitoring progress ..


 Multi Agency Forecast Track (All Agency Tracks on one Map)

 Typhoon2000 (located in Bicol)

 Wundermap From Weather Underground

 Jeff Masters Blog

 Weather Underground Tracking Map





Useful Tools

 A quick Analysis of the existing Coverage and potential landfall areas with no or Low Res coverage (Updated 2014-12-04)Green = High Res, red = Low Res]Source: Bing Analyzer



 Bing Analyzer Green means high-resolution imagery is available, zoomed in. Red means normal resolution at all zoom levels

 Bing Imagery Age Analysis Tool

 OSM Wiki on Bing Coverage

 Yolanda Geonode Data with useful GIS data derived from the Yolanda Response

 OSM-PH Imagery Coverage Map

 Animated Winds

 Crisis and Disaster Management Magazine Typhoon Ruby (Hagupit) Resources



OSM Changesets of the last 7 Days for Ruby






Identified Risks




 Landslide Risk Areas Published by NOAH

 Storm Surge Risk Areas Published by NOAH





Support Team



The support team communicates via the  irc://irc.oftc.net #hot IRC channel. You can join the Support Team and the Coordinators on the IRC for discussions or help for mapping.  You can also talk with other mappers or the support team by installing mumble and connecting to our server talk.hotosm.org
Additional information can be found at Humanitarian OSM Team (HOT) Mailling-List. You have to subscribe to this list to have the autorization to send emails to the group.




Mapping Effort Required



With the dispersion of the population in numerous islands and with the extent of the damages, up-to-date maps are an essential aspect of the management of this crisis. Tremendous efforts have been made by the OpenStreetMap community. The developers are adapting tools to provide up-to-date maps rapidly to humanitarian field workers. Hundred of contributors are also tracing over satellite imagery to update continuously the maps.

The following features were initially identified as being essential to map to assist with Response Effort.


 roads 

 schools 

 hospitals 

 churches

 buildings

 residential and commercial areas

 waterfronts

 malls

 sports complexes

 Helicopter Landing Areas





Imagery Partners




 The MapGive Project - Humanitarian Information Unit (HIU) of the U.S. Department of State

 Bing





Timeline of Activity




 Dec. 3 Taking into account the major impact predicted of this typhoon, Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team starts to monitor the typhoon with various partners

 Dec. 4 International Charter Space & Major Disasters Activates to provide imagery

 Dec. 5 HOT offically activates and publishes activation notice

 Dec. 5 Initial area for mapping identified as southeastern Samar

 Dec. 5 Initial features to map determined (roads; schools, hospitals, churches, buildings, residential and commercial areas and waterfronts, malls, sports complexes.)

 Dec. 5 Imagery Requests submitted to The Imagery Coordination Team for missing high-resolution imagery for northern and southeastern Samar

 Dec. 5 Coordination established with DHN (Digital Humanitarian Network)

 Dec. 5 Received provincial and municipal shape files from Undersecretary Moya's office, licensed for use in OpenStreetMap

 Dec. 5 GPS-assisted map for the Philippines based on OSM Data provided by Schadow1 Expeditions, which commenced its daily update to catch up on OSM data updates provided by the activation. Evacuation centers are now searchable. Map available for download OSM-PH GPS map for Garmin

 Dec. 5 Latest tracks show Ruby to be headed more north of original predicted track. Landfall now predicted at 4 p.m., Sat. Dec 6, Wind Speeds expected to be 205 to 250 Kph (128 to 155 mph). Current predictions indicate Gamay, Samar) as a possible landfall location.

 Dec 5 First HOT Task #798 Released for mapping, 90% completion in 5 hours. Incredible Response (40 mappers, 181 tiles)

 Dec 5 Second HOT Task 799 Published

 Dec 6 Typhoon Ruby Downgraded from A Super Typhoon to Typhoon Status

 Dec 6 First MapGive Imagery received for North East Samar

 Dec 6 Third HOT Task #801 Published

 Dec 6 Latest Track Predictions indicate landfall between Central Samar and North Samar, tracking North west between Central Mindoro and just South of Manila

 Dec 6 ANC (Yahoo) announces landfall At Dolores, North Eastern Samar, this evening on TV. Hot responds by resetting priorities to that area 80Km north and south of Dolores to account for Storm Surge

 Dec 6 Typhoon Ruby made Landfall at 9:15pm Saturday 6th December 2014 (Local Time) at the town of Dolores, eastern Samar

 Dec 7 Second MapGive Imagery released in area of Dolores and islands between Samar and Masbate

 Dec 7 Published Task #804 - Masbate (Bing)

 Dec 7 Published Task #807 - North West Samar Islands (Mapgive)

 Dec 7 Published Task #808 - East Coast - Borongon (Mapgive)

 Dec 7 Typhoon Ruby made Landfall on Masbate 35km South of Masbate City at 12:00 p.m. Sustained winds near the eye at 140kph Gusting to 170kph

 Dec 8 Mapping in Samar and Masbate continues with focus on coastlines, landfall area and islands where imagery was available

 Dec 9 Typhoon Ruby Weakens and is Classifieds as a Tropical Storm. Location: South East of Marinduque Island

 Dec 9 Editing Stats (Last 7 Days) as of 9am Local Time, Philippines - Number of OSM Contributors: 165, Number of Map Changes: 313,386, Total number of Changesets: 3,706. (Source: http://resultmaps.neis-one.org/osm-changesets?comment=ruby#2/27.1/26.4)

 Dec 9 Typhoon Ruby weakens and is now classified as a Tropical Depression. Location: Batangas

 Dec 10 Published Task #805 - North Samar (Mapgive)

 Dec 10. HOT decides to continue activation for one more week to ensure all aspects of the response are covered

 Dec 17. HOT officially Deactivates, however HOT will continue to support Priority Mapping Tasks to help the OSM-PH Community.





Humanitarian Mapping


Mapping Standards


Mapping will need to be done to a consistent standard. The following tagging scheme is based on the OSM-PH Mapping Standards and should be used on all activation mapping.  
In addition to the Philippine mapping convention, tagging for structures that are used as evacuation centers must be added evacuation_center=yes.





 Features 
 Description 
 Tags used 
 Bing 
 HIU


Highways

 Roads indicate people and settlements. Trace as much road features as possible. Make sure are properly tagged, use bridge=yes

Refer to PH road tags






Settlements

 Trace approximate boundary of settlement to identify areas where people are. Boundary do not need to be too detailed.

landuse=residential

 

 


Schools

 Schools in rural Philippine are usually long building arranged in parallel to each other.  There is usually an open ground in the center used for school activities.  During emergencies, schools are use as evacuation centers. Trace the whole boundary of the school as amenity=school and then trace individual buildings within the school complex.  Open grounds can be use as landing spots during emergencies. Add the tag evacuation_center=yes, if it was verified from other sources.

amenity=school, name=*, evacuation_center=yes (optional tag)






Place of worship / Churches

Trace the church grounds and individual buildings within. They are also used as evacuation centers during emergencies.

amenity=place_of_worship, name=*, building=yes for individual buildings within, evacuation_center=yes (optional tag)






Open spaces like basketball courts

Trace the open grounds like basketball courts. They are also used as evacuation centers during emergencies and landing spots of helicopters.

leisure=pitch, name=*, sport=basketball, evacuation_center=yes (optional tag)









Validating Tips


Please refer to Validating Data for information on Validating Tiles.



How YOU can Contribute and Help



Tools and Services Available
The Tasking Manager and the JOSM editor are essential parts of this Project. As new imagery are available, new jobs are added to the Tasking Manager. It has allowed HOT to coordinate efforts of mappers around the world. Some days there were more then 200 simultaneous mappers registered on the Task Manager and editing mainly with the JOSM editor. Online editors are also used for less intensive mapping. LearnOSM.org offers learning material for beginners and more advanced mappers.

New Mappers

 Most of our volunteer needs are for remote OSM contributors, visit LearnOSM.org section for new remote mappers to get started.


Mappers with Experience

Please refer to the Task List at the Top of this Wiki for active Tasks



Maps Available



General Info
OpenStreetMap (OSM) provides good mapping data for this country (free!)
Browse the map to get a feel for the data we have available. Different map styles can be selected on the right hand side.
See Downloading data for instructions on getting large scale map data. See Shapefiles if you need this format.


On-site maps
Hourly updates of Geofabrik data is available. There are shape files for GIS analysis and GPS ready files (Garmin format) available.
Schadow1 Expeditions offers a daily update of Garmin Routable GPS Map of the whole Philippines compiled from OSM data starting December 6, 2014 until relief operations is concluded. OSM-PH Garmin Map
The FieldPapers website allows you to select an area, and print the map of this area to collect field data. 
The MapOSMatic website renders  ready-for-print city maps (in pdf, svg, png) with an index of streets.
A Tile Server with layers for critical infrastructure elements at risk and the residential population distribution in the Philipines in 90m resolution. Further details here



Communication and Media


Communication




 Activation Blog post: Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Activation Live




Hash Tags

 #RubyPH #Hagupit - Twitter/etc hashtags

 #mapPHL - Mapping community response

 #ReliefPH - Relief Efforts

 #RescuePH - Needs rescue

 #SafeNow - Rescue operations has succeeded


Information and Contacting People Involved

 IRC - irc://irc.oftc.net #hot

 HOT Email List - Humanitarian OSM Team (HOT) Mailing-List (Subscription Required)






Media




 Storm nears typhoon-ravaged area in Philippines

 Philippines on highest alert as super-typhoon approaches

 Filipino villagers flee as strong typhoon nears central region devastated by Haiyan last year

 Bicol braces for massive landslides, lahar flow

 International Charter Space and major Disasters formally activates at request of UNITAR/UNOSAT on behalf of UN OCHA Philippines

 #RubyPH maintains strength, moves toward Eastern Visayas

 How 'Hagupit' got its name, Ruby is the Local Name ..

 Cool Animations and Visuals - Dangerous super typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) nears the Philippines

 Typhoon Hagupit: People flee homes as panic grips Philippines eastern coast; 2000 travellers stranded in capital Manila

 Evacuations Gather Pace in Philippines as Typhoon Hagupit Nears

 Super Typhoon Hagupit: 500,000 Flee As Storm Approaches

 Super Typhoon Hagupit (aka Ruby) forces airport closures in Calbayog, Legazpi and Naga; all flights cancelled, Philippines aviation authority reports @CAAP_Operations

 Two C-130 planes will head to Samar after Ruby

 DILG and National Disaster Chief in Borongon Eastern Samar

 US Embassy offers planes, personnel as AFP continues preparations for Ruby

 Trees felled, power cut as typhoon hits Philippines

 Typhoon tears into disaster-weary Philippines

 Cleanup Begins in Parts of Philippines as Typhoon Hagupit Heads Northwest

 FIRST LOOK: Images along path of Ruby after landfall

 Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby) Invades the Philippines (PHOTOS)

 Evacuations help limit human toll of Typhoon Hagupit in the Philippines







 
				Retrieved from "http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/w/index.php?title=Typhoon_Hagupit&oldid=1128424"				
Category: Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Projects 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

EnglishCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Page
Discussion





Variants








Views

Read
View source
View history



Actions






Search


  








site


Main Page
The map
Map Features
Contributors
Help
Blogs
Shop
Donations
Recent changes




Tools


What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
Cite this page 






 This page was last modified on 18 January 2015, at 01:11.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 license unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About OpenStreetMap Wiki
Disclaimers

















