Weather bulletin no. 8, tropical cyclone warning: Typhoon Ruby, issued at 11:00 p.m., December 5, 2014 | Official Gazette of the Republic of the Philippines
Weather bulletin no. 8, tropical cyclone warning: Typhoon Ruby, issued at 11:00 p.m., December 5, 2014 | Official Gazette of the Republic of the Philippines
















GOVPH

Menu



About

Briefing Room

eServices

Resources

 
Feedback

 






About


The Official Gazette
The Philippine Government
The Philippines








The Official Gazette is the official journal of the Republic of the Philippines.
This website, the national government portal, is updated regularly with speeches, reports, statements, press releases, and documents from the Office of the President and other departments of the Philippine government.
More about this website


The Official Gazette print edition is published every Monday. Inquiries regarding publication in, subscription to, circulation, and claims may be forwarded to the National Printing Office. 
Read more about the Official Gazette print edition. 
Read about the history of the Official Gazette.










The Philippines is a republic with a presidential form of government wherein power is equally divided among its three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial.
More about the Philippine Government


The three branches:

The Executive Branch
The Legislative Branch
The Judicial Branch











The Republic of the Philippines is a sovereign state in archipelagic Southeast Asia, with 7,107 islands spanning more than 300,000 square kilometers of territory. It is divided into three island groups: Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. The Philippines was named after Prince Philip (later King Philip II) of Spain, by the Spanish explorer Ruy Lopez de Villalobos during his 1542-1546 expedition to the islands.
The Philippines is a unitary presidential constitutional republic, with the President of the Philippines acting as both the head of state and the head of government. It proclaimed its independence from the Spanish Empire on June 12, 1898, following the culmination of the Philippine Revolution.
Fast facts about the Philippines


Check out The Philippines At A Glance for quick and easy access to information about the Philippine economy, poverty incidence, employment, infrastructure, education, healthcare, and the like, as well as some of the government’s most important programs.














eServices
Your source for government information and services.

Businesses
Citizens
Non-residents








Information about starting up and running a business in the Philippines.



Registering a business name
Registering a partnership or corporation
Trademark registration
Investing in the Philippines
Public-Private Partnership programs











                          Information for citizens of the Philippines.
                          Basics

Birth, death, and marriage certificates
Postal ID
NBI Clearance
Driver’s license
Passport
Voter registration
Overseas voting registration
GSIS membership
SSS membership
PhilHealth
Benefits for senior citizens

Housing

Housing & Land Use Regulatory Board forms

Taxes

Community tax certificate (sedula)
Tax Identification Number (TIN)
BIR tax forms and e-filing system



Transportation

LRT-1 information
LRT-2 information
MRT-3 information
Motor vehicle registration

Civil Service

Career Service Examinations
Services related to eligibility
Ombudsman clearance

Scholarships

Scholarships from CHED
DOST scholarship programs

Travel and tourism

Tourism information portal
Travel clearance for minor



OFW services and procedures

POEA e-registration
Registration of landbased applicants
Registration of seafarers
Documentation of landbased names hires
Hiring and placements of government-hired workers
Documentation of Workers-on-leave
Filing/docketing of cases
Legal assistance
License requirements for recruitment agencies

Adoption

Adoption for Filipinos









Information for visitors and potential migrants to the Philippines.


Travel and tourism

Tourism information portal
Non-immigrant visa application

Migrating to the Philippines

Dual citizenship
Immigrant visa application
Retiring in the Philippines

Adoption

Adoption for foreign nationals














Briefing Room


Office of the Presidential Spokesperson
Other departments
President's Day











The Office of the Presidential Spokesperson (OPS) forms part of the national government’s communications arm. The OPS Secretary and Undersecretary speak on behalf of the President and are the primary sources of information regarding current issues and concerns related to the President.


The Presidential Spokesperson
The Deputy Presidential Spokesperson
For the record
Press releases and statements








                          For latest updates from other departments,
click here












The official chronicle, for the record, of the activities and undertakings of the Chief Executive on any given day.
This continues the tradition begun in the Official Gazette first, with the Official Month in Review from the Roxas to Quirino administrations, and then the Official Week in Review from the Magsaysay to Marcos administrations, until Martial Law. Eventually, press releases from the Aquino to Arroyo administrations, which served to chronicle the Chief Executive’s day, will be incorporated here.


The President’s Day
 
Archives

Official Month in Review
Official Week in Review














Resources
This page provides links to officials documents and other information.

Information
Messages of the President
Official documents








                          Holidays, observances, information during natural disasters, programs and policies of the Aquino Administration, and more.
                                                  


Official Directory
Official Calendar
Official notices
2014 Nationwide Holidays
Programs and policies
Crisis response
Holidays and class/work suspensions
SONA technical reports











                          These are documents that, in the judgment of the President of the Philippines, are deserving of publication and preservation for the historical record of the country and the administration.
                                                  


Inaugural addresses
Messages
Statements
Speeches
State of the nation addresses
Budget messages













The Philippine constitutions

1987 Constitution
1986 Freedom Constitution
1973 Constitution
1935 Constitution
1899 Malolos Constitution

The Philippine Legal Codes

Administrative Code of 1987

Laws and Issuances
 
Treaties

Philippines-United States Visiting Forces Agreement
















Official Gazette of the Republic of the Philippines
National Government Portal – Edited at the Office of the President of the Philippines Under Commonwealth Act No. 638














Weather bulletin no. 8, tropical cyclone warning: Typhoon Ruby, issued at 11:00 p.m., December 5, 2014

Posted on December 5, 2014 






SEVERE WEATHER BULLETIN
FOR: TYPHOON “#RubyPH”(HAGUPIT)
TROPICAL CYCLONE WARNING
WEATHER BULLETIN NUMBER EIGHT
ISSUED AT 11:00 PM, 05 DECEMBER 2014

Typhoon Ruby has maintained its strength as it threatens the Samar provinces.
At 10:00 p.m., December 5, 2014, the eye of Typhoon Ruby based on all available data was located 305 km East of Borongan, Eastern Samar (12.0°N, 128.2°E).
Strength: <aximum sustained winds of 195 kph near the center and gustiness of up to 230 kph
Forecast movement: Forecast to move West at 10 kph.
Forecast positions:
24-hour (tomorrow evening):
85 km Northeast of Borongan, Eastern Samar or at
170 km East Southeast of Catarman, Northern Samar
48 hour (Sunday evening):
75 km Northwest of of Masbate City, Masbate
72 hour (Monday evening):
150 km West of Calapan City, Oriental Mindoro
Expected landfall: Saturday evening or Sunday morning over the Eastern Samar – Northern Samar area and it will be associated with strong winds, storm surge (up to 4 meters) and heavy-intense rainfall.
Estimated rainfall amount is from 7.5 – 20 mm per hour (heavy – intense) within the 600 km diameter of the typhoon.
Ruby and the Northeast Monsoon will bring rough to very rough sea conditions over the seaboards of Northern Luzon, eastern seaboard of Central and Southern Luzon, seaboards of Visayas and over northern and eastern seaboards of Mindanao. Fisherfolks and those using small seacraft are advised not to venture out over the said seaboards.
Expected Exit PAR: Wednesday morning.
Source: PAGASA





Stay up to date with your government.
Subscribe Now


Stay up to date with your government.
Subscribe to Daylight, a weekly newsletter that features good news about the Philippines and Filipinos.
After signing up, you will receive a confirmation email that you will need to click through to confirm your subscription.

Name

Email

Subscribe

×
 

Share on social media

Tweet











































More from the Briefing Room

Commission on Audit’s “Celebrating the CPA”
DSWD to award top LGU data users
DPWH-NCR January 23-26 road repair schedule
Search of hardworking public officials and employees is on
DILG lauds PNP for ‘good job’ in Papal visit
DPWH completes P700-M bridge in Isabela











			This entry was posted under Briefing Room, Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration and tagged Philippine Atmospheric Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration, press release, Ruby (typhoon), weather bulletin. Bookmark the permalink.
							
			










Republic of the Philippines
All content is in the public domain unless otherwise stated.

Privacy Policy








About GOVPH
Learn more about the Philippine government, its structure, how government works and the people behind it. 

Official Gazette
Open Data Portal
Send us your feedback



Government Links

Office of the President
Office of the Vice President
Senate of the Philippines
House of Representatives
Supreme Court
Court of Appeals
Sandiganbayan





















