
	International Medical Corps Teams on Standby as Super Typhoon Hagupit Heads for Philippines - International Medical Corps


	International Medical Corps Teams on Standby as Super Typhoon Hagupit Heads for Philippines - International Medical Corps












































ABOUT



Mission & History
Leadership
Partnerships
Financial Reports
Ensuring Quality
Contact Us




OUR PROGRAMS



Our Approach
Program Priorities

Emergency Response & Preparedness
Capacity Strengthening
Women's & Children's Health and Well-Being
Mental Health
Clean Water, Sanitation & Hygiene


Additional Technical Expertise

Fragile States
Gender-Based Violence
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Diseases
Livelihoods & Agriculture
Logistics
Nutrition & Food Security
Pandemic Preparedness
Refugee Populations


Where We Work




HOW YOU CAN HELP



Donate
 Make a Tribute Gift
Other Ways to Give
Volunteer
Work With Us






Find us on social networks

Twitter
Facebook
YouTube




NEWS



Philippines Emergency Response
Press Releases
Feature Stories
Video
Media Coverage




CAREERS



Work With Us
See Current Openings












Search:





Search





























International Medical Corps Team on Standby as Typhoon Hagupit Heads for Philippines
December 5, 2014 - Los Angeles, Calif. – International Medical Corps’ team in the Philippines is closely monitoring Typhoon Hagupit (locally known as Ruby) which is expected to make landfall Saturday, December 6. With wind gusts already reaching nearly 185 mph, Hagupit has the potential to have devastating humanitarian impact in areas still struggling to recover from Typhoon Haiyan in November 2013. International Medical Corps’ local teams are prepositioning supplies, coordinating with local partners and preparing to conduct rapid humanitarian assessments following the storm. Two mobile medical units are on standby ready to deploy immediately. International Medical Corps has a vast network of in-country medical professionals to draw upon should they be needed. 
Hagupit is projected to hit Eastern Samar, Northern Samar, and Leyte provinces which were previously devastated by Haiyan with an estimated 14 million people affected and 6,000 deaths. International Medical Corps was on the ground in the Philippines within 24 hours of Haiyan, delivering 14,625 health consultations in the first 6 weeks alone. We were able to reach remote communities cut off from health care and basic services by rapidly implementing a network of mobile medical units. Today, International Medical Corps is still working in the Philippines delivering critical health care and training services to help communities return to self-reliance. International Medical Corps has developed a robust, multi-sector team in the Philippines over the last 13 months and is well placed to respond to natural disasters. We have highly skilled staff in mental health, nutrition, health and water, sanitation and hygiene on the ground.
International Medical Corps was a first responder to numerous natural disasters in Asia, including Cyclone Phailin in India in 2013, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in 2011, the 2005 earthquake in Pakistan, and the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.
  Read more about our response to Typhoon Haiyan
Read about Typhoon Haiyan one year later
Since its inception 30 years ago, International Medical Corps' mission has been consistent: relieve the suffering of those impacted by war, natural disaster and disease, by delivering vital health care services that focus on training. This approach of helping people help themselves is critical to returning devastated populations to self-reliance. Visit www.InternationalMedicalCorps.org for more information. Also see us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.














Share





Facebook





digg





Delicious





Yahoo!

















Where We Work  

Afghanistan
Kenya
Burundi
Lebanon
Cameroon
Liberia
CAR
Libya
Chad 
Mali
Darfur
Nigeria
D.R. Congo
Pakistan
Ethiopia
Philippines
Gaza
Russian Fed.
Haiti
Sierra Leone
Indonesia
Somalia
Iraq
South Sudan
Japan
Syria
Jordan
Turkey
Liberia
Yemen
Zimbabwe




 

 

**


RECENT PRESS RELEASES
January 20, 2015-  International Medical Corps Ebola-fighting Doctor Joins First Lady at State of the Union Address
December 4, 2014 -  International Medical Corps Teams on Standby as Super Typhoon Hagupit Heads for Philippines
November 25, 2014 -  International Medical Corps Opens Ebola Treatment Center in Sierra Leone’s North Where the Epidemic Continues to Spread
MORE... 





PRESS CONTACT
Jaya Vadlamudi jvadlamudi@InternationalMedicalCorps.org310-826-7800
 















 



Program Priorities
Emergency Response & Preparedness Capacity Strengthening Women’s & Children’s Health Clean Water, Sanitation & Hygiene Mental Health  Additional Technical Expertise

 

About
History Our Approach Where We Work FAQ  Contact


Be Involved
Ways to Donate Gift Catalog Follow Us Work with Us


News
Press Releases Media Coverage Featured Content Videos


More
Facebook PinterestTwitter  Youtube  My Account








 

Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed by International Medical Corps under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United States License

 











Privacy Policy - Terms & Conditions - Copyright ©2013, International Medical Corps® All rights reserved













