Westernpacificweather.com | Severe Conditions Expected in Southern Luzon and Samar / Typhoon Hagupit , Ruby Friday Afternoon UpdateWesternpacificweather.com | Severe Conditions Expected in Southern Luzon and Samar / Typhoon Hagupit , Ruby Friday Afternoon UpdateWesternpacificweather.com | Severe Conditions Expected in Southern Luzon and Samar / Typhoon Hagupit , Ruby Friday Afternoon Update		























































Local Forecast
Surface Analysis
Tropical Info. Center
Satellite Imagery

Full Disk IR
Full Disk VIS
Radar Imagery
SE Asia Enhanced IR
SE Asia VIS/IR
Western Pacific Enhanced IR
Western Pacific IR
Western Pacific WV


Earthquake & Tsunami
Links
Tropical Threat Map
About

Copyright Notice
Hail…. The Weather Game
Social Media Hub
Westpacwx APP


Interactive Map
Scales

Australia Cyclone Scale
Fujita Scale
India Meteorological Cyclone Intensity Scale
RSMC Tokyo’s Cyclone Intensity Scale
Saffir-Simpson Scale
Temperature Conversion

Current Tropical Systems
Typhoon Names
Weather Search
Westpacwx Search


Tropical Cyclone Classification Guide


Winds

Clouds


Education

2011 Year in Review
2012 Year in Review
2014 Year in Review
Image of the Day
Japan Warning Translations
Lake / Ocean Effect Snow
Six Westerly Lows of Eastern Asia
South West / North East Monsoon
Storm Footage
Tropical Cyclone Tracks

2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012

01W ONE
02W PAKHAR
03W SANVU
04W MAWAR
05W GUCHOL
06W TALIM
07W DOKSURI
08W KHANUN
09W VINCENTE
10W SAOLA
11W DAMREY
12W HAIKUI


2013

01W SONAMU
02W Shanshan




Western Pacific Ocean Currents
Who is the Official Typhoon Agency?
Tropical Cyclone Overview
























						Severe Conditions Expected in Southern Luzon and Samar / Typhoon Hagupit , Ruby Friday Afternoon Update		 
				Posted on 
December 5, 2014
 by 
Robert Speta

 
				Posted in Uncategorized 
 




Typhoon Hagupit is now 24hrs away from landfall and conditions across the eastern Philippines are already starting to deteriorate as rain bands start to flow on shore along the storms western periphery.  Residents a head of the storm are already making preparations stocking up on supplies while thousands are heading to evacuation shelters.  Check here to find a local shelter near you. 
President Aquino told local press today. “They’re saying now 50 provinces out of 88 (will be affected), this is in that sense worse than Yolanda (Haiyan), but we are supposed to be more experienced and more knowledgeable after Yolanda, so we should be able to do more once this passes through,”
 
@PNP_OTCDS @DIPOEM1 Surigao City police visited the evacuation centers where residents from coastal brgys are housed pic.twitter.com/8xmTLVaG3u
— pro13_caraga (@pro13caraga) December 5, 2014

IR / VIS
Typhoon Hagupit locally known as Ruby is expected to make landfall Saturday Evening with winds gusting well over 250kph as it comes ashore.
Areas north of the center of circulation where the winds are blowing on shore could see a storm surge as high as 3-4 meters high in low lying coastal areas.
The current forecast from JMA shows the storm more on a Westerly track while JTWC and PAGASA take it slightly WNW through southern Luzon and Northern Visayas. After the storm moves inland the track once again starts to become uncertain as land interaction and the cold surge to the north continue to play in with the forecast.
What we can say though is southern Luzon and even as far north as Legazpi could see a storm surge threat as well as coastal areas farther inland in Visayas.
Track Comparisons
The big threat will be heavy rainfall from this storm. It will be moving at a very slow pace across the Philippines thus bringing heavy showers over an extended period of time.  The heaviest rainfall will likely be in Samar where over 500mm could result in a serious risk of flooding and landslides.









At this time Signal Force 2 has been issued for parts of Visayas but in all honesty I dislike this system as it does not indicate the gravity of the situation. Eastern Visayas will NOT see only Signal Force 2 but conditions could get as high as 4 in Visayas and Southern Luzon as far north as Legazpi. Enough to blow around not only light but large debris and cause significant damage to a home or any un-reenforced structures.
furthermore strong winds will extend will go the north from the storm’s center due to the storms interaction with the North East Monsoon.
Saturday Evening Wind Forecast
The storm will continue to track west-north-west over northern Visayas and Southern Luzon through the weekend slowly weakening, Those in Manila could still see heavy rainfall and the threat of damaging winds still remains in the Metro area but nothing compared to what we will be seeing along the eastern sea boards, more information on the exact location of the storm extended track will be posted this weekend.
 
Below are some useful “Stay Alive” tips if you wanna ride out a Typhoon:
1. Pruning of large and tall trees will make you safe from damage, reinforce vulnerable ones to the ground if necessary. Keep them away from power lines;
2. Make sure roofing are sturdy to withstand powerful wind and rain. Ensure doors and windows are water tight;
3. Clear your property from potentially dangerous debris becoming airborne during high wind;
4. Free water ways from debris to avoid backing up flood waters towards river estuaries in case of torrential rains associated with the system;
5. Stay clear from the immediate coasts and low-lying areas to avoid being caught up by raging waters. Watchout for landslips if you live near steep elevations;
6. Secure food stocks, adequate potable water supply and medications. Do not forget to safely shelter dogs and other beloved animal companion indoor. Be humane enough. You don’t wanna keep them cold outside in a storm;
7. Keep emergency numbers at hand and orient family members what to do before, during and after the storm. Charge handheld radios, cellular phones and extra battery before electricity is cut from the grid;
8. Listen to emergency broadcast via battery-powered portable radio. Lights would definitely go out during the storm, so you wanna make sure you got emergency lights and torch lights in handy;
9. Keep calm and pray for the Typhoon to come to past safely in your vicinity. We’ll ride out the storm safely.











						  « Find A Shelter in Your Area, Typhoon Hagupit Interactive Map 

Surge from Hagupit / Ruby starting to impact Samar , Saturday AM Update »						







Convective Outlook 24-26 Jan 2015
Japan takes a wintry hit as the remainder of the WPAC remains quiet
Moisture from Mekkhala Hits Japan / Weekend Outlook
Convective Outlook 23 Jan 2015



1234
 

 

 



 



James Reynolds Typhoon Video

You need Flash player 8+ and JavaScript enabled to view this video.


 











Major City Weather Search 










Translate Language




Help the Site 






  
Website Search 










Partners

28storms
Auscyclonechasers
Earthquake-report
Earthuncut.tv
ExtremeStorms.Com
Manila Typhoon Center
MarkVoganWeather
Sagitnangbagyo
Storm2k.org
Typhoon and Weather Imagery
weather-manila
West Pacific Meteorological Discussion Group



















							© Westernpacificweather.com						







 







 





















