Across Nepal’s Countryside, Desperate Journeys to Ruined Homes After Quake - NYTimes.com 



Across Nepal’s Countryside, Desperate Journeys to Ruined Homes After Quake - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|Across Nepal’s Countryside, Desperate Journeys to Ruined Homes After Quake
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1za0GaC




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Asia Pacific 
Across Nepal’s Countryside, Desperate Journeys to Ruined Homes After Quake

By THOMAS FULLERAPRIL 28, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






Destroyed houses in Paslang, a village in the Gorkha district in Nepal, the epicenter of the magnitude 7.8 quake.

Credit
            Athit Perawongmetha/Reuters        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
RAMCHE, Nepal —  Madhu Badu had been on the road for the better part of three days, trying to get back to his native village, back to his wife and children, near the epicenter of Nepal’s devastating earthquake northwest of Katmandu. His journey had begun on a bus, but the roads had become impassable and now he was on foot.As he climbed a dirt path strewn with boulders and the muddy debris of landslides, hints of the devastation that awaited him in Ramche greeted him like ominous signposts: an elderly woman, groaning in pain, draped on the back of a man who was carrying her down the mountain; a hamlet where residents were burying the dead; piles of stone rubble where farmhouses once stood. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Nepal’s Cultural Heritage Becomes Its Scrap as Human Crisis Takes Priority After EarthquakeAPRIL 28, 2015












Frustration Grows in Nepal as Earthquake Relief Trickles InAPRIL 28, 2015










video



After Nepal Earthquake, Funeral RitesAPRIL 28, 2015










video



Witness Videos on Everest After QuakeAPRIL 28, 2015







Desperate residents appeared from the forests, pleading for help from Mr. Badu and a journalist. “We lost everything!” cried one, Baldev Bhatta, his eyes bloodshot. “You are the first outsiders to come here. We have no grain. We have no money. We cannot rebuild on our own. You need to send this news to the world.” 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs of Earthquake Devastation in Nepal            

                When Nepal was hit with a powerful earthquake the tremor shattered lives, landmarks and the very landscape of the country. The scope of the disaster in photographs.            











At each stop on the way up the mountain, farmers offered to show Mr. Badu the ruins of their houses. He pressed forward instead. He knew his own family was safe — he had tried calling his wife for four hours Saturday before he finally got through — but she said the village had been badly damaged and he was anxious to help.Across the countryside outside Katmandu, tens if not hundreds of thousands of people are making similar desperate journeys, abandoning the jobs that had drawn them from home in better times and traveling through difficult terrain to get back to isolated villages like Ramche that have been all but cut off from the world.Three days after Nepal’s worst earthquake in 80 years hit on Saturday, the official death toll climbed past 5,000 and the prime minister, Sushil Koirala, said it could reach 10,000. But the extent of the destruction and loss of life in the countryside remained largely unknown.Here in the Gorkha district, the epicenter of the magnitude 7.8 quake, roads that are repaired or cleared during the day are often blocked before the next morning by landslides, making it difficult to reach communities where hundreds are feared dead. In a sign of progress, though, convoys of aid workers, some bearing the banners of Nepalese companies, could be seen driving through the region on Tuesday. Helicopters have also been ferrying the wounded out of the area.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
When the quake struck, Mr. Badu, 51, was in Solukhumbu, about 100 miles northeast of here, at a trekking station at the base of Mount Everest where he works in construction.
Photo






Rescue crews in Katmandu on Tuesday, three days after Nepal's worst earthquake in 80 years. The prime minister said the official death toll could reach 10,000.

Credit
            Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times        


He spent the next two days on buses before beginning his trek at dawn on Tuesday by foot. He carried two plastic tarpaulins, a down jacket and a bag filled with apples and grapes. It was part care package, part aid delivery.Before the earthquake, he said, life in the villages in this impoverished region had improved. They had electricity and cellphone coverage, and the dirt roads were more or less acceptable. But now there was no power, and communications were spotty.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
In almost every hamlet on the way up to Ramche, residents reported deaths from the quake. At least in those places, none appeared to have suffered mass casualties.Finally, as Mr. Badu approached Ramche, a vista of destruction came into focus. The village where he had grown up had been almost completely leveled.On a bluff with sweeping views of the verdant valleys below, all that was left of the high school was a huge jumble of timber beams, slate roof tiles and broken stone walls. Almost every house had collapsed. Most people in the village of several hundred survived, but they were living under makeshift tents, much of their food supplies unreachable in their collapsed homes. Two seriously wounded women lay in a stable with the water buffaloes. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs            

                Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the Earthquake            

                The earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 flattened sections of Katmandu’s historic center, where many structures were made with bricks.            








                    OPEN Photographs                




Mr. Badu’s home was one of the few left standing. “I imagined that my house was completely destroyed,” he said. “I have food to eat. The others have nothing.”While the conditions in remote Ramche were particularly dire, even in the capital of Katmandu, the scale of suffering was breathtaking, and a growing sense of frustration with the government was palpable.Although the government has established 16 large camps in the city, many other residents are making do by sleeping on the street or in open spaces away from damaged buildings and walls. Even in the tent camps, residents have complained that help is not reaching them or is arriving too slowly. Many accuse government officials of incompetence and neglect, and residents voice suspicions that officials are hoarding the aid supplies for themselves.“Only this tent was provided by the government, but for everything else, we have had to rely on our own labors,” said Sudesh Tulachan, a building worker and shop owner sheltering from the rain under a large canopy. “You can see how many humans are in need.”One of the biggest worries is that supplies of clean drinking water will run out, and that with many water pipes likely cracked, any water running from taps could be contaminated.
Continue reading the main story
Video

Fear and Limbo in Katmandu

Since Saturday’s earthquake, tens of thousands in Katmandu have slept outside, wary of aftershocks and the threat of collapsing buildings.

                By Rajneesh Bhandari and Sofia Perpetua on                                                    Publish Date April 28, 2015.
                            





The government defended itself, saying that there are pressing needs everywhere, and that trying to get to villages that have had no government help was a priority. And Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator for Nepal, said in a telephone interview that “the bureaucracy has been a bit slow, but they did seem to get organized in the past 24 hours.”Some relief organization workers also said that delivering help to villages was a physical challenge that would test any government. Mr. McGoldrick’s office on Monday cited estimates that the earthquake had affected eight million people in the country, including two million in the 11 worst affected districts.“The geography is very, very difficult,” Peter Oyloe, the director for nutrition for Save the Children in Nepal, said in a telephone interview.In the devastated village of Ramche, Mr. Badu, visibly shaken, stopped in what used to be the courtyard of the high school, considering what might have happened if the earthquake had not struck on a Saturday when its 500 students were off. Protruding from the rubble was a partly rolled-up map, the kind used in geography classes, titled “America — political.”
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
The only people in the building when the quake struck were 18 teachers in a training session. One of them, Netra Prasad Devkota, now stood in the courtyard holding a muddied copy of the materials they had been studying when the school “started to crack into pieces.” 
Continue reading the main story








                    OPEN Map                



            Map: Maps of the Damage From the Nepal Earthquakes        


“I shouted, ‘Earthquake!’ ” he recalled. “We all ran.”Mr. Devkota and several others managed to escape from the school amid a huge cloud of dust. But eight of the teachers were buried in the rubble. Four were killed, and four were later pulled alive from the debris. A resident called a friend who is a helicopter pilot in the Nepalese armed forces. The pilot reached the village on Sunday and evacuated the wounded teachers. “The pilot came out of friendship,” said Bumi Nanda Devkota, another native of Ramche who had also rushed home. “There has been no help from the government since.”Many residents survived the quake because they were working in the fields where they grow wheat and rice. Jhyali Maya Devkota, 63, said she was inside her house, but lunged toward the door when the tremors began.“We were told to stand in the door frame,” she said. “Those were the instructions they always gave on television. That is how I survived.”Residents said no doctors had come to see their wounded, not even the women in the stable, the two most seriously injured people still in the village. One of those women moaned miserably, her leg swollen and her foot wrapped in gauze.“The voice of poor people like us is not heard,” said Tejnath Puddasin, her son. .Mr. Badu said he felt very fortunate that his house survived.The village had clean water, but grain from the last harvest had been largely in the ruins of the houses that collapsed. Residents still had vegetables and livestock, but were worried that they would not last long.Mr. Badu’s wife, Bishnu, returned home from the fields in the late morning to find her husband waiting for her. “This is big happiness for me,” she said.Despite the reunion, though, she said she remained nervous. “The school collapsed, four teachers died, and I fear there will be more earthquakes,” she said. “I don’t feel lucky.”


Chris Buckley contributed reporting from Katmandu, Nepal, and Austin Ramzy from Hong Kong.
A version of this article appears in print on April 29, 2015, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Across Nepal’s Countryside, Desperate Journeys to Ruined Homes .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












