Nepal Asks Foreign Rescuers to Leave as Hopes Fade - NYTimes.com 



Nepal Asks Foreign Rescuers to Leave as Hopes Fade - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|Nepal Asks Foreign Rescuers to Leave as Hopes Fade
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1DOP5cK




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Asia Pacific 
Nepal Asks Foreign Rescuers to Leave as Hopes Fade

By GARDINER HARRISMAY 4, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






A Japanese rescue team in Sankhu, Nepal, on Friday. The death toll from the earthquake now exceeds 7,300. Some rescue workers said they would stay despite the government’s request.

Credit
            Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
KATHMANDU, Nepal —  The government of Nepal is asking foreign search-and-rescue teams to leave now that the likelihood of finding survivors buried by last month’s earthquake has largely passed, and a top Nepalese tourism official said Monday that no more climbers were likely to ascend Mount Everest this season.“We have already asked them to go home,” Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, a Home Ministry spokesman, said on Monday of the foreign rescue teams, adding that roughly half the 4,000 rescuers had already left. “I think all the rescuers will go to their respective countries by Friday.”Some of the rescuers, however, said they had no intention of leaving immediately. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Nepal’s Young Men, Lost to Migration, Then a QuakeMAY 4, 2015












Nepalis in New York Improvise a Relief Effort for Earthquake VictimsMAY 4, 2015












Nepal’s Bureaucracy Is Blamed as Earthquake Relief Supplies Pile UpMAY 3, 2015












Hints of Normalcy in Katmandu, but Rebuilding Lies AheadMAY 2, 2015












3 Ways Nepalis Are Using Crowdsourcing to Aid in Quake ReliefMAY 1, 2015












Nepal’s Fast Urbanization and Lax Enforcement Add to Quake’s TollMAY 1, 2015







The leader of a large Spanish team, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he had not been authorized by his embassy to speak publicly, said Nepal’s government would soon divide Kathmandu, the capital, into sectors so that various teams would have responsibility for specific parts of the city. In the early days of the rescue effort, teams often ended up searching the same sites because of a lack of coordination.
Continue reading the main story
Video

Quake Survivor on Being Trapped for Days

Pemba Tamang, the 15-year-old who was rescued after being trapped for five days under rubble from Nepal’s earthquake, and his rescuer and the doctor treating him described the ordeal on Thursday.

                By AP on                                                    Publish Date April 30, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters.
                            



Asked whom his team could still rescue, the leader responded: “Whoever is still alive. We don’t yet know if anyone is still in there.”“We have the technology for surveying under the rubble; we have dogs that sniff people out,” the team leader said. “And we have other kinds of techniques.”There seems almost no chance that anyone alive is still trapped amid the rubble from the quake, which struck just before noon on April 25. On Sunday, though, three survivors were found in the Sindhupalchok district, an especially hard hit and largely rural area north of Kathmandu. The official death toll now exceeds 7,300. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs of Earthquake Devastation in Nepal            

                When Nepal was hit with a powerful earthquake the tremor shattered lives, landmarks and the very landscape of the country. The scope of the disaster in photographs.            











Dr. Ian Norton, head of the World Health Organization’s program of foreign medical teams, praised the government’s announcement, which he said would free up airport facilities and other resources.“More is not better at this point,” Dr. Norton said. “If you’re not contributing, you need to make way for those who are.”Dr. Norton said that the thousands of rescuers, who often work as firefighters in their home countries, had saved a total of 16 people in the aftermath of the quake, and that about 50 foreign medical teams comprising nearly 10,000 people had saved hundreds of lives and even more limbs. After the Haiti earthquake in 2010, nearly 2,000 rescuers saved 13 people, but nearly 30,000 Haitians died because of a lack of proper medical care, Dr. Norton said. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs            

                Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the Earthquake            

                The earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 flattened sections of Katmandu’s historic center, where many structures were made with bricks.            








                    OPEN Photographs                




“I’m not saying rescue teams are bad, but there needs to be a balance,” Dr. Norton said. “This announcement by the Nepali government is completely appropriate.”Mr. Dhakal explained that many of the rescue teams had refused to take part in the task of recovering dead bodies from the still-towering piles of rubble in some parts of Kathmandu, “so their relevance is now over.”Minendra Rijal, the minister for information and communication, said, “We do not need ones who are not needed for us, but we will keep those who are essential.”
Continue reading the main story
Video

In Nepal, a Dangerous Journey Home

Trapped by an earthquake hundreds of miles from home, 28 Nepalese workers hiked for days braving landslides and collapsed roads to reach family members.

                By Rajneesh Bhandari on                                                    Publish Date May 4, 2015.
                            






Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Also Monday, a group of experienced Sherpas told the government that the Sherpa community had neither the time nor the inclination to do the necessary repairs before bad weather, which usually arrives in the third week of May, made climbing impossible.Ang Dorjee Sherpa, chairman of the Sagarmatha Pollution Control Committee, which is responsible for climbing-route maintenance, said in a telephone interview that an inspection he and others had completed Sunday found that the route through the Khumbu Icefall, which collapsed last year as well, was simply gone.“We had to work almost for one month to fix the route and rope when it collapsed after last year’s avalanche,” he said. “If we started today, it would take at least 12 to 15 days to rebuild the route and refix the ropes.” 
Continue reading the main story



                Map            

                Maps of the Damage From the Nepal Earthquakes            

                Maps show the landscape of temporary shelters, the epicenter of the earthquake and its aftershocks.            








                    OPEN Map                




The work would be dangerous because of the instability of the icefall, and with only five climbers at the base camp willing to ascend, there was no point in undergoing the task, he said.“Since the whole country is suffering from a devastating natural disaster, why should we encourage them to bear yet another risk?” Mr. Sherpa asked, referring to the mountaineers.Tulsi Prasad Gautam, the head of Nepal’s tourism department, which oversees mountaineering, said in an interview that the Sherpa report most likely spelled the end of this year’s climbing season.“We’ve been told that many climbers have already left base camp and that it’s not easy to fix the route and rope for climbing within the short window of time we have left,” the tourism official said.This will be the second consecutive year that the Everest climbing season has been truncated because of a deadly event. Last year, about 30 climbers were crossing a notorious area known by some local residents as the Golden Gate because of the shape of its ice formations when a huge chunk of ice cascaded down the mountain’s south side around 6:30 a.m. and engulfed them, killing 16 Sherpas.That avalanche, and the outrage among the Sherpas over their pay and safety conditions, forced the cancellation of the climbing season, a crucial part of Nepal’s tourism industry. It was the deadliest day in Everest history until the earthquake this year, which caused a wall of boulders, rocks, ice and debris to pulverize the mountaineering base camp, killing 18 people, including four Americans.


Bhadra Sharma contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on May 5, 2015, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Nepal Asks Foreign Search-and-Rescue Teams to Leave as Hopes Dim.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












