Buried alive... Man rescued becomes 'face' of Nepal quake - Emirates 24|7 
Buried alive... Man rescued becomes 'face' of Nepal quake - Emirates 24|7











	1.04 AM Wednesday, 20 May 2015

      























Home


News


Emirates


World


Government


Region




Crime


Local


Region


World




Entertainment


Films & Music


Celebrity Gossip


Events




Offbeat


This is life


Crazy World




Sports


Local


Cricket




Football


Other




Business


Economy & Finance


Corporate


Technology


Energy




Property


Real Estate


Rentals


Find Your Dream Home




Lifestyle


Health


Shopping


Food


Fashion






Classifieds


Videos


Pictures


Bollywood


Jobs


Prayer Time


IPL 8 Live








Home
News







Advanced








Buried alive... Man rescued becomes 'face' of Nepal quake
17 bodies found at Everest base camp, official says; climbers above base camp all safe


Published
Sunday, April 26, 2015








Image : 




													1
													




													2
													









These pictures capture in excruicating detail the rescue of a man buried alive by the earthquake.
 
 This man's picture went viral - making him the 'face of the quake'. Agencies
 

 
Seventeen  bodies have been recovered at the base camp on Mount  Everest where  hundreds of climbers are stranded after an earthquake in  Nepal on  Saturday triggered an avalanche on the world's highest peak, a   mountaineering official said.
The first helicopter took off  from Kathmandu on Sunday morning to  airlift the injured after flights  were delayed by cloudy weather, Ang  Tshering Sherpa, president of the  Nepal Mountaineering Association,  told Reuters. At least 61 people were  injured.
The avalanche swept down Everest, burying part of the  base camp as  climbers gathered near the main route to the summit at the  beginning of  the climbing season in the deadliest incident on the  mountain.
US climber John Reiter said dozens of people had  suffered critical  injuries, many of them with head injuries. "It's been a  rough 18  hours," he told CNN.
An Indian army spokesman said  earlier a climbing team found 18  bodies on Saturday in the first hours  after the quake. Nepal's Tourism  Ministry could only confirm 10 deaths,  but spokesman Gyanendra Shrestha  said the toll could rise.
One  of those killed was Dan Fredinburg, a Google engineer based in   California. He suffered head injuries when the avalanche hit, according   to a statement from the mountaineering company that had taken him to   base camp.
"We pray too for all those who have lost their  lives in one of the  greatest tragedies ever to hit this Himalayan  nation," Jagged Globe  said.
Tourism ministry officials  estimated that at least 1,000 climbers,  including about 400 foreigners,  had been at base camp or on the ascent  to the peak when the earthquake  struck.
April is one of the most popular times to scale the  8,850-metre  (29,035 foot) peak before rain and clouds cloak it at the  end of May.  Almost exactly a year ago, an avalanche killed 16 Nepali  guides in what  was the single deadliest day on the mountain.
Saturday's  7.9-magnitude quake was the strongest to hit Nepal for 81  years. It  also shook neighbouring India, China and Bangladesh. Early  on Sunday,  the official death toll stood at more than 1,800 people in  Nepal.
Nick  Farr, an Australian climber of The Everest Academy and Trek  Climb Ski  Nepal, said efforts to find out the situation at base camp  were being  hindered by poor phone coverage.
"Nothing is being received out of there at the moment," he said.
Steve  Moffat, a mountain guide and operations coordinator for New   Zealand-based Adventure Consultants, said two Nepali staff had been   killed when the avalanche tore through base camp.
A further 31  staff and climbing clients - including two from the  United States, five  from New Zealand and one each from Australia, Italy  and Iceland - were  safe but stranded at Camp 1, further up the  mountain.
"The  first stage and the first priority is to get them down to base  camp. We  don't know if it's going to be possible to get them down and  out through  the Khumbu Icefall or whether we will need to chopper them  out," Moffat  said from New Zealand.
Climbers above Everest base camp all safe

There  are around 100 climbers at camps 1 and 2 on Mount Everest,  above base  camp, and all are safe after an earthquake set off an  avalanche, the  head of the Nepal Mountaineering Association said on  Sunday.
It  will be difficult to evacuate the climbers as the route back to  base  camp through the Khumbu icefalls is blocked, Ang Tshering Sherpa  told  Reuters.
The avalanche that swept through parts of base camp  had the combined  force of two separate snowslides from different peaks,  Sherpa said,  and blanketed the camp in powder snow. Seventeen bodies  have been  recovered and 61 climbers were injured.
Earlier reports:
Death and panic on Mt Everest
Climbers on the world's highest mountain pleaded for help on Saturday after a massive earthquake triggered an avalanche at Everest base camp.
Base camp was crowded with foreign mountaineers and their sherpa teams at the start at the climbing season when the avalanche hit, destroying camps and sending slabs of ice crashing in what was described as a "huge disaster".
"Running for life from my tent. Unhurt. Many many people up the mountain," tweeted Romanian climber Alex Gavan who had been preparing to ascend nearby Lhotse, the world's fourth highest peak.
"Huge disaster. Helped searched and rescued victims through huge debris area. Many dead. Much more badly injured. More to die if not heli asap," he later tweeted.
'Destroyed by the shake' 
"Many camps have been destroyed by the shake and wind from the avalanche. All the doctors here are doing our best to treat and save lives," Sherpa said.
"Big slabs of ice" hanging near camp two, further up the mountain from base camp, came crashing down after the earthquake, with poor communications compounding fears for climbers there.
"We had some 10 to 15 climbers including some sherpas up there and we still don't have any confirmation reports (of) whether they are OK or not," climber Arjun Vajpai told India's NDTV.
"It is snowing here for the past one and a half days. We haven't been able to establish radio communication with them," he added.
Some 700 climbers are in Solukhumbhu district that includes Everest, with 300 thought to be at base camp itself, and another 300 just below, deputy superintendent of police Chandra Dev Rai said.
Another climber Daniel Mazur, from SummitClimb, tweeted that base camp "has been severely damaged" while his team was caught at camp one. "Please pray for everyone."
He later tweeted to say that we "have no damage and are all safe".
Baba Ramdev escapes

Indian spiritual guru Baba Ramdev had a narrow escape in Kathmandu after stage he was speaking on collapsed.
- AP has a witness report that a statue in a park fell on a child, killing the child.

Patrick Fuller ‏@Pat_Fuller : Red Cross engaged in search and rescue & caring for the injured following #nepal #earthquake
Nepal earthquake: The story in pictures... Click here
 






















Share with a friend or colleague





Your e-mail address:





Recipient's e-mail address:




Message







 

ALSO SEE








#NepalQuake: 1 million children affected [video]

Death toll @ 3,617; Thousands of Nepalis fleeing Kathmandu










Quake after-shocks shake Nepali expats with fear

Nepali fuel station attendant lost his home and  relatives










Nepal quake: Families of 'Missing 6' want to speak to their sons

They have received information the boys are safe










Video: Moment Everest avalanche hits

UAE team in Everest Base Camp Challenge 'safe'; 22 bodies after Everest avalanche










Viber offers quake victims free international calls

VOiP service to soon make calls to Nepal free as well










Office staff help send Nepali office boy home

Nepali Embassy in Abu Dhabi says anybody in need of help can call 050 8180280










Nepal quake: UAE flight schedules affected

Flights to Kathmandu resume; Passengers can rebook flights for free or claim full refunds










Nepal quake: Google, Facebook launch service to locate survivors

Lack of power means most mobile devices are switched off










Video: Power of Nepal quake on CCTV camera

 





 


 


Videos by YouTube










UAE search and rescue teams head to Nepal

Emirati team of 88 professionals










Nepal earthquake, Day 4: Search for living dead

In this April 27, 2015 photo, rescue teams carry a body dug out of the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu, Nepal. A










Safety with E24|7: How to survive earthquake

Complete guideline for all types of emergencies launched by national authority








Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus













Videos









Dramatic plane landing in 'crazy' weather

  Several planes were unable to land safely due to high winds at Madeira International airport on Sunday. While some 










Bride almost drowns as stunt goes wrong

This is the horrific moment a 'trash the dress' stunt went terribly wrong and a young bride almost drowned after 






See more videos





















Free Newsletter: Subscribe

Don't miss out on the latest news
Subscribe to Emirates24|7 Newsletter







News In Images






Queen of Box Office: Deepika Padukone celebrates 'Piku'





Crazy World: In Pictures





Chelsea Flower Show: Proud Queen sees Prince Harry bloom





Cannes 'Inside Out': Eva Longoria, Angel Sara Sampaio, Paris Hilton





Cannes party glamour: Irina Shayk, Uma Thurman, Adriana Lima...





Keeping Up with the Kardashians: Which 'Miss' Jenner stealing Kim's clothes





Hollywood Gossip: Loves of Paris Jackson, Bobbi Kristina Brown





Bollywood Gossip: Salman Khan India's brand ambassador?





See more galleries



FollowEmirates 24|7

FollowEmirates 24|7


















Most Popular in News

Read







Abu Dhabi Airports open hiring day tomorrow; click for jobs




Dubai Police confirm woman committed suicide from high-rise




Confirmed: Etisalat customers can soon make voice calls over WiFi




UAE ministry studies holidays for last 10 days of Ramadan




Restaurant shut for barring Saudi customers









Latest jobs availableCustomer
Service Representative,Dubai, United Arab Emirates2015-05-18HR
Manager / Generalist - Global FMCG Organisation (Omani
National)Mackenzie Jones ,Muscat,
Oman2015-05-18Guest
Services ManagerAl Ahli Hospital ,Doha,
Qatar2015-05-18Regulatory Affairs SpecialistAvon Saudi Arabia ,Jeddah , Saudi
Arabia2015-05-18Reporting
OfficerIRC International Rescue committee
,Amman, Jordan2015-05-18More jobs on Emirates
24|7


Related articles




Video: Moment Everest avalanche hits




Mt Everest avalanche leaves 13 dead




Six killed in Everest avalanche




Nepal blizzards kill 20, including hikers, guides




Nepal plans to name Himalayan peaks after Hillary, Tenzing
















Dubai ranked world's second hottest shopping magnet – again

Dubai has presence of 55.7 per cent of international retailers










How Dubai helped teen beat stealing habit

Reform rates of delinquent children at Dubai Family and Juvenile Prosecution 70%










UAE companies in race to build second tallest tower in Dubai

Trend of building 'megatall' towers — more than 600 metres high – likely to increase










Million-dollar salaries: This is what UAE's private sector CEOs earn

Top-tier executive salaries have seen a whopping 39% hike in some sectors in GCC










18 members from one family in miraculous escape from deadly bus tragedy

Bus crashed returning from Saudi, killing 3








In Case You Missed It ...








School bus drags child after bag gets stuck on door

Surveillance cameras recorded a school bus dragging a child on a street in the city of Louisville in the US state of 










Wife seeks divorce from 'too nice' husband

Woman tells family court husband changed after marriage










'Don't nap at airport while waiting for flight'

Aircraft gates sometimes change, causing napping passengers to miss their flight










Journalist finds cash scattered in Saudi

Calls in police










51-year-old woman delivers her 21st child

Three of her children have died








Back to top




News


Emirates


World


Government


Region




Crime


Local


Region


World




Entertainment


Films & Music


Celebrity Gossip


Events




Offbeat


This is life


Crazy World




Sports


Local


Cricket


Football


Other




Business


Economy & Finance


Corporate


Technology


Energy




Property


Real Estate


Rentals


Find Your Dream Home




Lifestyle


Health


Shopping


Food


Fashion









Editorial Policy


Privacy Policy


Contact Us


About Us


Advertise With Us


Terms & Conditions


Apps


Our services





































Copyright © 2015. Dubai Media Incorporated. All rights reserved.
















Tweet









 

