
      				For Modi's year-old government, storm brewing in rural India
| Reuters

 

      				For Modi's year-old government, storm brewing in rural India
| Reuters















Edition:

IN

Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom
United States

















Home


Business




Business Home


Economy


Reuters Summits


Deals


Business Video


Company Results & Outlooks


Autos






Markets




Markets Home


Indices


Stock Quotes


India Markets


US Markets


Currencies


Commodities


Funds






India




Top News


India Insight


Monsoon 


Top News Video






World




World Home


South Asia


Middle East


Special Reports


Reuters Investigates


World Video






Tech




Technology Home


Science


Tech Video






Opinion




Opinion Home


D H Pai Panandiker


Expert Zone


Macroscope






Breakingviews




Breakingviews Home


Breakingview Videos






Money




Money Home


Alerts


Watchlist


Portfolio


Stock Screener


Fund Screener






Sport & Life




Sports


Cricket World Cup


Lifestyle


Bollywood


Entertainment


Oddly Enough


Health


Arts


Faithworld


Lifestyle Video






Pictures




Pictures Home


The Wider Image


Photographers






Video



























































Economy
 | 
Fri May 15, 2015 10:59am IST

Related: 

Top News, 
Business, 
Economy


For Modi's year-old government, storm brewing in rural India

KHANNA/KAMARGAON
 | 
By Rajendra Jadhav and Mayank Bhardwaj


























                            	Labourers unload sacks filled with wheat from a truck at the Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (PUNSUP) godown at a wholesale grain market in Punjab, India, May 6, 2015. 

                                
                                	Reuters/Ajay Verma


left1 of 3right












                            	A labourer loads a bundle of wheat husk in a tractor-trolley at a field in Punjab, May 6, 2015. 

                                
                                	Reuters/Ajay Verma


left2 of 3right












                            	A sack of rotten wheat is pictured against the backdrop of a labourer removing dust from a heap of wheat sacks at a wholesale grain market in Punjab, India, May 6, 2015. 

                                
                                	Reuters/Ajay Verma/Files


left3 of 3right






KHANNA/KAMARGAON Just one year after taking office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is facing a challenge that could come to haunt him - the farm sector that sustains three-fifths of the population is in deep trouble, and he is being blamed for not doing enough.Promising good governance and a stronger economy, Modi romped to power in elections last May by the biggest margin any prime minister has got in three decades. But the rural crisis has dented his popularity and the vanquished opposition is finding new vigour in his discomfort.From the start of the crop season last October through March, India's farm exports have fallen more than 11 percent to $15 billion, as the impact of the global commodities glut has been sharpened by events like Iran's nuclear talks and a currency dip in Brazil.The fall in exports has depressed domestic farmgate prices just as unseasonal rain damaged winter crops such as wheat, potato, chickpea and rapeseed. Farmers have little money now to buy seeds for the summer sowing, and meteorologists have predicted the annual June-October monsoon will be below par, which means the next crop may also fail."A perception is gaining ground that the government is slow in responding to the crisis in the countryside," said D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of the RPG Foundation think-tank in New Delhi. "Any inept handling of the situation will only invite trouble and impair the plans for economic reforms."Farming accounts for only 15 percent of India's $2 trillion economy but provides a livelihood to 60 percent of its 1.25 billion people. A crisis in the countryside would have severe political impact. The opposition Congress party, crushed by Modi a year ago, is latching on to rising discontent in the countryside. Party leader Rahul Gandhi has been touring the affected farming regions and the heir apparent to the Nehru-Gandhi political dynasty is getting a good response.    "While Modi has failed to help us, Rahul Gandhi was here to assuage our pain," said Paramdeep Singh, a wheat farmer at Khanna wholesale market in the northern Indian state of Punjab."His visit has forced the government to at least acknowledge the fact that we've suffered huge losses."
    The fightback by the opposition has slowed Modi's reform agenda in parliament. This week, Congress delayed bills that would make it easier for corporations to buy land - changes it says are "anti-farmer" - and harmonise national and state taxes.DRAW THE STINGFinance Minister Arun Jaitley said last week agriculture was the biggest challenge for India's economy and would need major investments.Meanwhile, Modi's government has asked state governments to tap into more than $1 billion from the State Disaster Response Fund and raised compensation by 50 percent for farmers suffering crop losses.
In an attempt to draw the sting of falling exports and prices, the government has also eased quality requirements for wheat purchases by state agencies, raised import taxes on rubber and sugar, and given an incentive for raw sugar exports.    To some farmers, the response is too little, too late."When you lose 10,000 rupees ($156), they offer you 100 rupees. So far we haven't got any assistance," said Manik Andhale, a farmer from Kamargaon village in Maharashtra state, whose onion crop suffered rain damage.To be sure, some of the events that have led to the crisis are beyond the government's control.    Until last year, for example, Iran paid a premium for Indian sugar, soymeal, barley and basmati rice. Now, with the easing of some Western sanctions, Iran is looking to buy elsewhere.
Cotton exports have been hit by China's decision to abandon a stockpiling plan, while non-basmati rice shipments face headwinds after Thailand decided to run down its stockpiles.    On the other side of the world, a decline in the Brazilian real following a scandal at oil giant Petrobras last year has weighed on sugar prices, making Indian exports uncompetitive.     Meanwhile, the fall in global crude oil prices has depressed prices of grains and oilseeds used for biofuels. It also trimmed freight rates, making imports of commodities such as corn and soymeal from South America cheaper for Asian buyers.A strong rupee - despite a fall last week – has further made India's farm exports uncompetitive and imports cheaper. A major commodities trader has said the decline in agricultural exports could be as much as $5 billion, or nearly 20 percent, for the crop year to September, which would be the steepest on record.In the villages, farmers struggle to understand why they are earning less.     "How come prices of all crops are going down?" asked Anil Sathe, a farmer in Kamargaon who said he has had to start working as a part-time labourer to make ends meet. (Additional reporting by Krishna N. Das; Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Douglas Busvine and Raju Gopalakrishnan)



















Trending On Reuters

One Year in OfficeRoads before welfare: Modi faces dissent over spending shakeupAs Prime Minister Narendra Modi completes one year in office, his cuts in federal welfare spending on the poorest of India's 1.25 billion people are coming in for sharp criticism, including from within his cabinet.  Full Article | Graphic: India’s budget allocations Exclusive: What Maneka Gandhi told Arun Jaitley about child welfare budget cutsFor Modi's year-old government, storm brewing in rural India























REUTERS SHOWCASETale of Two IndiasCity auto buyers go upscale, no-frills minis rule villages  Full Article Rajan on RupeeDespite dip, rupee relatively stable - RBI's Rajan  Full Article India Tax RowIndia ignored warnings on foreign investor tax row - sources  Full Article Hyundai Motor Group chief says considering third India factory  Full Article GM Mustard TrialsScientists to submit GM mustard report to government  Full Article Vodafone ResultsVodafone's return to growth hints at wider sector recovery  Full Article Tata Steel The steelmaker dashes reports it is near deal to sell UK plants to Klesch  Full Article Interest on GoldIndian banks may offer interest on gold deposits of above 30 grams  Full Article Apple TVIcahn says Apple will still introduce TV - CNBC   Full Article Android App for IndiaDownload the Reuters app from Google Play and select the India edition for breaking news, analysis and market updates.  Install | Also on Amazon 




















Reuters


Back to top






Reuters.com
Business
Markets
India
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index
Mobile


More from Reuters
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options


Support & Contact
Support
Corrections


Account Information
Register
Sign In


Connect with Reuters
Twitter
Facebook
Linkedin
RSS
Newsletters


About
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
AdChoices
Copyright








Thomson Reuters



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution
A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance
Our next generation legal research platform
Our global tax workstation




Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.


























X






