India most favorite equity market for FIIs in 2015; top ten stocks to bet on: BofA-ML - timesofindia-economictimesIndia most favorite equity market for FIIs in 2015; top ten stocks to bet on: BofA-ML - timesofindia-economictimes




You are here: Home>Collections>Kotak Mahindra BankIndia most favorite equity market for FIIs in 2015; top ten stocks to bet on: BofA-MLKshitij Anand, ECONOMICTIMES.COM Mar 18, 2015, 11.00AM ISTTags:Yes Bank Ltd.|UltraTech Cement Ltd.|Sensex|nifty|LIC Housing Finance Ltd.|Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.|ICICI Bank Ltd.|Havells India Ltd.|Godrej Consumer Products Ltd.|FII|Dabur India Ltd.|Bofa-ML|Asian Paints Ltd.(India is relatively better…) NEW DELHI: Amid global concerns, India is relatively better placed than most of the other emerging markets and that explains its overweight status among most of the global emerging market funds (GEMs), BofA-ML said in a report on Wednesday. According to a poll conducted by BofA-ML last week, in which 50 investors participated, India was the most favorite equity market for the global investors for the year 2015 at 43%, followed by China at 26%.     The global investment bank is of the view that India remains to be in a structural bull market, but may face near-term headwinds. They have a target of 54000 by end-2018. However, in the short term, the market may remain range-bound to negative over next few months. We believe investors should await dips in the market. Some of our near-term concerns as well as long-term structural drivers were reflected in the conference, said the report. According to the BofA-ML survey, banks were expected to be the best performing sector in 2015 with 34% investors picking the sector. On the other hand, commodities and autos were least likely to be the best performing sectors this year as per the investors. The investment bank is still overweight on rate-sensitive, operating leverage plays such as autos, banks, cement and oil as a reform play. But they have recently added pharma as an overweight to play a tactical consolidation in the market. Top large cap stocks having 'buy' recommendation include names such as ICICI Bank, Lupin, BPCL, and UltraTech Cements, while top midcap names include stocks such as Yes Bank, Voltas, Oberoi Realty, and Cadila Healthcare. Here is a list of stocks where BofA-ML has a 'BUY' recommendation: Yes Bank Ltd: BUY The management is focused on getting more retail business on both liability and asset sides. Yes Bank expects strong margin improvement over the next two-three years. Factors that they expect will drive up margins to this level are a) rising CASA share; b) higher credit-to-deposits ratio and shifting assets mix from bonds to loans; c) higher growth in retail / SME banking; and d) lower PSL burden as the bank procures PSL assets directly. Asset quality is likely to remain very manageable. Corporate exposure is likely to remain manageable as a large part of it is towards working capital vs project finance, where risks are high. BofA-ML believes that shift in loan mix towards retail will further improve its loan profile. Kotak Mahindra Bank: BUY Kotak's proposed merger with ING Vysya has already got the approval from shareholders of both banks, as well as the Competition Commission of India. The bank maintains that the merger is going to be very synergistic and value accretive to both banks. A significant focus is on the smooth integration, for which it already has a separate team. Kotak is seeing strong opportunity for products like tractors, car, CV financing and distribution of mutual funds, insurance on its extended network. LIC Housing Finance Ltd: BUY The management estimates the overall industry growth at 15% in FY16, and LICHF's growth to be 2-3 per cent above that of industry. Retail loan growth continues to be strong. Incrementally, growth (off a small base) is coming from LAP. LICHF is only taking self-occupied unencumbered properties as collateral. LAP is used primarily for education, home improvement or business purpose. There is no concentration of geography lumpiness in this portfolio. The incremental ticket in LAP is only Rs2.5mn. ICICI Bank Ltd: BUY According to ICICI Bank, key worry remains on the slippages from the restructured portfolio. However, it expects incremental stress to peak in this quarter. Further, the pace of stress loan addition should moderate considerably in FY16, though 1QFY16 will be key to watch. The bank is planning to revive stress assets cell to focus on NPL recovery given the large size of the stress book. It believes FY16 will see more instances of management changes, getting promoters to sell non-core assets and bringing in more liquidity, etc., to tackle NPL issues. UltraTech Cements Ltd: BUY Average cement price will be higher in the Jan-Mar 2015 quarter on a QoQ basis even though demand has not improved. The company is also looking at more than 6% price hike per annum, which will be higher than cost inflation for the next couple of years. Ultratech expects to be a key beneficiary of the new GST tax regime from Apr 2016, owing to having factories all over India. The new tax regime will bring down the barriers of inter-state goods movement. This will help Ultratech compete in a more cost effective manner. Asian Paints Ltd: BUY The management expects demand to increase given improvements in the macro environment over the past 2-3 months. The company has taken its first price cut of 1.9%, led by lower prices of crude-linked raw materials and TiO2.1 | 2 |  NextFEATURED ARTICLES10 best tax-saving investmentsPrime Minister Narendra Modi launches Sukanya Samridhi Yojna under Beti Bachao campaignNarendra Modi government to launch Atal Pension Yojna scheme on June 1More:India's first e-reader Wink unveiled, supporting 15 languagesNarendra Modi government to launch Atal Pension Yojna scheme on June 1Fed warns of catastrophe if $14.3-trn debt limit not raisedTableau Software, Atlassian prepare for IPO amid market woesHow a two-year-old firm is hitting a daily turnover of Rs 4,000 crore todayHyundai: Price war under way in US car market




RELATED ARTICLES'Buy' Kotak Mahindra Bank: Motilal OswalNovember 23, 2007Kotak Mahindra's banking operations soonMarch 6, 2002RBI’s unwinding measures positive for banks: Top 8 bets...October 8, 2013IN-DEPTH COVERAGEKotak Mahindra Bank

© 2015 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reservedIndex by Keyword|Index by Datewww.economictimes.comFeedback|Privacy Policy|Terms of Use|Advertise with us





















