Earthquake Aftershocks Jolt Nepal as Death Toll Rises Above 3,400 - NYTimes.com 



Earthquake Aftershocks Jolt Nepal as Death Toll Rises Above 3,400 - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|Earthquake Aftershocks Jolt Nepal as Death Toll Rises Above 3,400
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In

 0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1HJDmU9




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





 
Asia Pacific 
Earthquake Aftershocks Jolt Nepal as Death Toll Rises Above 3,400

By THOMAS FULLER and CHRIS BUCKLEYAPRIL 26, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Continue reading the main story

Photographs





Photographs|12 Photos
Nepal Searches for Survivors After Earthquake




Nepal Searches for Survivors After Earthquake

CreditDanish Siddiqui/Reuters        







Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
KATMANDU, Nepal — Each time this city shuddered with aftershocks from the earthquake that convulsed Nepal, Samaj Gautam felt an urge to join the millions of residents who fled to safety outdoors. But working in a hospital emergency ward inundated with the wounded, and their broken limbs, fractured skulls and other physical traumas, Dr. Gautam said Sunday night, he and his colleagues had to suppress their fears and stick to treating patients.“I’m feeling exhausted but also scared because the tremors have been by the dozens,” Dr. Gautam said as he worked through his own exhaustion in the emergency ward of Bir Hospital in Katmandu, where he had been since soon after the earthquake hit Saturday. “But the most worrying thing to me is the aftereffect. Sanitation, disease, these are also serious worries.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










In an Already Troubled Nepal, a Picture of Despair EmergesAPRIL 26, 2015












Reporter's Notebook: Perseverance and Grace as Nepal Is Turned Upside DownAPRIL 26, 2015












Nepal Earthquake Poses Challenge to International Aid AgenciesAPRIL 26, 2015












Live: Latest Updates on Earthquake in Nepal 






By Monday afternoon, Nepalese authorities had sharply raised the death toll to more than 3,400, but the full extent of the devastation and death was still unclear. It was that uncertainty, over what the earthquake had wrought and what the future might hold, that spread fear and anxiety across Nepal. The true extent of disasters like the one that hit Saturday often become clear only in the days and weeks afterward, as the digging-out gains momentum and crews work through the rubble of lives upended.
Continue reading the main story


            Nepal Earthquake: Where to Donate        








A list of some of the groups soliciting donations for relief efforts in Nepal.
Go to List »



 



But for now, getting through the day — and night — is the immediate challenge as aftershock after aftershock continues to rattle this country and its unnerved people. In the capital, Katmandu, as if the powerful earthquake were not enough of a test, heavy rains pelted the thousands who sought safety in the streets, cowering under leaking tarpaulins and makeshift tents, wondering what had become of homes, lives and livelihoods thrown into limbo by the quake.“We don’t have anyplace to go,” said Mohammed Kabil, one of a dozen or so men who were warming themselves near a smoky campfire as the drizzle turned to rain. They sat near the remains of the Dharahara Tower, a revered monument that was toppled by the quake.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
“We don’t have any clothes, we don’t have enough food, we don’t have medicine, we don’t know when we can go back into our homes,” he said.
Continue reading the main story
Video

Rescue Efforts Continue in Nepal Quake

The Indian government and rescue workers discussed the search and relief efforts in Nepal on Sunday, following the magnitude 7.8 earthquake that struck the country a day earlier.

Publish Date April 26, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by Prakash Singh/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images.
                            



At the international airport in Katmandu, hundreds of frightened people tried to book flights out early Monday morning.Sitting atop a major tectonic fault, Nepal is accustomed to the tremors of the earth. But this time it has been overwhelmed by a powerful quake that killed thousands and destroyed some of the country’s most treasured temples. Past and present were destroyed all at once, making digging out and rebuilding that much more daunting.On Sunday afternoon, the streets of Katmandu were filled with people carrying bedrolls and pillows to any open space they could find, including a military parade ground that has been transformed into a giant tent city. Few people seemed willing to sleep inside, fearful that the next shock might make their homes pancake. There seemed an arbitrariness to the destruction, one building collapsing and entombing its occupants, while another nearby withstood the shock. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs            

                Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the Earthquake            

                The earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 flattened sections of Katmandu’s historic center, where many structures were made with bricks.            








                    OPEN Photographs                





Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
That, too, added to the uncertainty, the sense that sleeping in the street, in the rain, was the only hedge against the randomness of fate.“Everyone is scared,” said Samir Thapa, a 30-year-old security guard who, like thousands of other residents, slept in the tent city. “Everyone is saying it will come again. No one is going to sleep at home.”
As the government of Nepal struggles to gain its bearings, an international relief effort has begun to shift into gear. The United States, India and China were among countries initiating their own relief efforts, but aid officials said they were finding it difficult to get out to rural areas where some of the greatest devastation is feared.
Photo






A woman at the cremation of an earthquake victim on Sunday at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of the Bagmati River, in Katmandu.

Credit
            Bernat Armangue/Associated Press        


Even getting aid and relief workers into Katmandu is complicated, with fewer than a fifth of the regular daily flights now arriving, with airlines concerned about the effects of powerful aftershocks.The government also pleaded with its own workers to help in local rescue efforts rather than going to their usual jobs.There is an urgency to the need, knowing well how devastation can spread its roots beyond the immediate crisis. The crammed encampments, for instance, are almost certain to pose a health risk in the days ahead, Dr. Gautam said, as unsanitary conditions could allow disease to spread. “Even some patients prefer to stay in the open field because they’re afraid of being inside.”
Continue reading the main story
Video

Survivors Rescued From Mount Everest

Rescue crews airlifted survivors from the Mount Everest base camp on Sunday after Nepal’s worst earthquake in 81 years triggered a series of avalanches.

                By Carsten Lillelund Pedersen on                                                    Publish Date April 26, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by Azim Afif/European Pressphoto Agency.
                            



On Mount Everest, helicopter rescue operations began Sunday morning to take wounded climbers off the mountain, where at least 18 climbers were killed and 41 others injured. At least three Americans were among the dead: Marisa Eve Girawong, a physician assistant working for Madison Mountaineering of Seattle; Dan Fredinburg, a Google engineer; and, according to Reuters, Tom Taplin, a 61-year-old filmmaker from Colorado.Hundreds of foreign and Nepalese climbers remained trapped on the mountain, according to the news agency.Public frustration over the hardships brought by the disaster could grow into ire with the government, if its response is seen as too little too late.
Photo






A search-and-rescue team found a survivor, at center right, lying next to a dead friend. The country has been hit by heavy rains, leaving thousands of people afraid to go indoors taking shelter under tarpaulins and in makeshift tents.

Credit
            Prakash Mathema/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        


“We feel we are helpless,” said Biraj Bikram Shah, a pilot who wandered through his neighborhood darkened by a power blackout. “We can do nothing.”
He and his family slept in their garden despite the rain. Pedestrians seemed to do everything in their power to stay away from buildings. They walked in the street instead of on sidewalks.
The government announced that schools would remain closed for at least five days. 
Continue reading the main story



                Map            

                Maps of the Damage From the Nepal Earthquakes            

                Maps show the landscape of temporary shelters, the epicenter of the earthquake and its aftershocks.            








                    OPEN Map                




Across Katmandu, especially in the oldest districts, there are piles of detritus — timber beams and broken bricks. In the heart of the historic district, the country’s most prized temples are rubble. These buildings “are what made Katmandu special,” said Sri Kitav Sangoala, a middle-age truck driver, as he surveyed the piles of bricks that the authorities believe contain more bodies.“So many sites are destroyed,” he said. “Our history is gone.”In time, engineers and scientists will no doubt offer explanations for why some buildings collapsed into splinters and piles of bricks while others next door appeared indifferent to the violence of the earthquake.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
But for now, there was still the overwhelming trauma of the quake. Ichcha Gauchan, a 33-year-old homemaker, said she clutched the wall of her home as everything in her kitchen flew from the shelves. She moved her hands like a metronome to describe how the houses next to hers swayed during the quake.“I thought I had died,” she said. She is sleeping at the military parade ground, and although her house is intact, she does not plan to return home for several days. “How can we sleep at night?”Others have no home to return to. Depak Lama, 35, a street vendor, can only stare at the pile of bricks that used to be his home. Under the rubble are his savings, his identity card, his mobile phone, clothing and all of his family documents.In the seconds before the earthquake struck, Mr. Lama said, it felt as if it suddenly became very windy outside. Birds flew away in a frenzy. He grabbed his 2-year-old son and ran from the building as bricks fell on his head. On Sunday, among the dusty piles of debris that were once his home, were a pair of socks, pages of a book and a padlock.
Dr. Gautam, 30, said he had rushed into work at the emergency ward of Bir Hospital soon after the earthquake struck. The ward and a unit for less serious injuries had treated about 1,000 people over the weekend, far more than the 15 or 20 people they receive on an average weekend.Although the hospital is one of Katmandu’s best-regarded government hospitals, its relatively primitive equipment and medical supplies were no match for the influx of patients with broken limbs, punctured chests and other injuries.“The casualties from the buildings will still grow,” he said, “not so fast, but the other problems will grow.”


Reporting was contributed by Gardiner Harris, Nida Najar, Hari Kumar and Suhasini Raj from New Delhi; Ellen Barry and Bhadra Sharma from Katmandu; and Austin Ramzy from Hong Kong.
A version of this article appears in print on April 27, 2015, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Aftershocks Jolt Katmandu, and ‘Everyone Is Scared’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












