People behind D.C. murders, fire likely knew victims: report - NY Daily News  People behind D.C. murders, fire likely knew victims: report - NY Daily News 
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S.     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs       
  
  
            People behind D.C. murders and house fire likely knew victims, kept them bound for a day: report (VIDEO)  BY   Jason Silverstein   NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Monday, May 18, 2015, 11:25 PM Updated: Monday, May 18, 2015, 11:37 PM  A A A        Share this URL                  
	Washington D.C. police think more than one person is responsible for the baffling deaths of an affluent couple, their son and their housekeeper last week — and those people probably knew the victims well.

	Investigators believe the killers had easy access to the multimillion dollar home of Savvas Savopoulos, and that the killers kept Savvas, his wife Amy, their 10-year-old son Philip and housekeeper Veralicia Figueroa bound and threatened for one day before they all died last Thursday, NBC Washington reported, citing unnamed sources.

	A D.C. police spokesman declined to comment on that theory to the Daily News, citing the ongoing investigation.    ABC NEWS Police believe the people behind the quadruple killings and house fire in a posh D.C. neighborhood knew the victims and had access to their home, according to a new report.   

	Adding to the mystery, another of the wealthy family’s housekeepers, Nelitza Gutierrez, told CNN Monday she got a voicemail from Savvas last Wednesday telling her not to show up the next day because his wife was sick. Calls from the concerned housekeeper were not returned.

	On Thursday, about three hours before the family’s $4.5 million home was set on fire, Gutierrez said she got a text message from Amy on Thursday that said: “I am making sure you do not come today.”      Facebook Savvas Savopoulos and his wife Amy were killed in their home last Thursday.    Facebook The couple's 10-year-old Philip, believed to be one of the four victims.    DC Metropolitan Police Department Surveillance footage shows a blurry image of the first "person of interest" in the quarduple homicide investigation.    Previous Next       Enlarge  

	Relatives and friends had tried to reach the couple Thursday morning to no avail, according to the Washington Post.

	Police still have no suspects for the quadruple killings, but on Sunday authorities released a video showing a blurry image of the first “person of interest” — an individual running near a wooded area behind a banquet hall, holding a plastic bag.   Veralicia Figueroa, the housekeeper from Silver Spring DC police believe was killed in yesterday's arson in Northwest pic.twitter.com/Xw11Ooxo2x— Tom Roussey (@tomrousseyABC7) May 15, 2015
 

	The family’s stolen Porsche 911 was found burned in a church parking lot in Hyattsville, Md., where American Iron Works, the company Savvas served as CEO for, is headquartered.

	The four victims were found in the family’s burning home, and police said three had wounds and at least one showed signs of blunt force head trauma and smelled of gasoline. Police also noted early that there were no signs of forced entry at the home.

	Follow @jaysunsilver

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.  jsilverstein@nydailynews.com    Related Stories  SEE IT: Washington cops seek 'person of interest' in murders       Married couple, son, housekeeper slain in burning D.C. home        


   


   








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               
       

      
                 Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   People behind D.C. murders, fire likely knew victims: report     2   Ohio teacher fired after confronting school bully: report     3   NFLer's wife sues ex-boss at Manhattan firm for harassment     4   Bandidos and Cossacks: What to know about outlaw biker gangs     5   Sicko Michigan nurse guilty in killing, dismemberment of son     6   Valencia College sued over claims of forced vaginal exams     7   Twin Peaks biker gang shootout: Nearly 200 arrested in Waco     8   Utah school removes special needs students from yearbook     9   Cruise ship horror as 10-year-old girl drowns in pool     10   WATCH: Fan at Mets game gropes woman         1   Man turns fart recording into symphony ‘rectum opus'     2   Ohio teacher fired after confronting school bully: report     3   Cruise ship horror as 10-year-old girl drowns in pool     4   Cancer charities misused $187 million in donations: feds      5   New York man falls in Yellowstone trying to take photo     6   People behind D.C. murders, fire likely knew victims: report     7   Sicko Michigan nurse guilty in killing, dismemberment of son     8   WATCH: Fan at Mets game gropes woman     9   Tenn. teen who got into 8 Ivies decides on U. of Ala.     10   Utah school removes special needs students from yearbook               
News Video


   


PC Richard and Son

      








Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      