High in the Himalayas, a Search After the Nepal Quake Yields Grim Results - NYTimes.com 



High in the Himalayas, a Search After the Nepal Quake Yields Grim Results - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|High in the Himalayas, a Search After the Nepal Quake Yields Grim Results
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In

 0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1EP6FkN




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





 
Asia Pacific |                        Barpak Journal                
High in the Himalayas, a Search After the Nepal Quake Yields Grim Results

By DANIEL BEREHULAKMAY 5, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






Saainli Gurung was consoled Tuesday at her son’s funeral in Barpak, Nepal, where assessing damage has been difficult.

Credit
            Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
BARPAK, Nepal — In this village high above a picturesque valley that lies at the epicenter of the earthquake that flattened much of the country, residents are still finding bodies.On Tuesday they found that of a 26-year-old man who was getting his hair cut at the village barber shop on April 25 when the mountain shook uncontrollably. He was still sitting upright more than a week later when Nepali soldiers pulled his body from a pile of heavy rubble and put it in a plastic body bag while his father looked on.The wails of his bereaved mother echoed up and down the mountain. Her neighbors tried to comfort her, knowing there would likely be more sons — and fathers, mothers and daughters — found in the coming days. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Nepal’s Young Men, Lost to Migration, Then a QuakeMAY 4, 2015












Nepal Asks Foreign Rescuers to Leave as Hopes FadeMAY 4, 2015












Nepal’s Bureaucracy Is Blamed as Earthquake Relief Supplies Pile UpMAY 3, 2015










map



Maps of the Damage From the Nepal EarthquakesAPRIL 25, 2015







I met the soldiers when I arrived here by helicopter Tuesday, having hitched a ride from Pokhara with the Indian military on one of its aid runs. The only other way to get to Barpak, 100 miles northwest of the capital, Kathmandu, is to hike for six hours up a narrow mountain trail popular among visiting trekkers, but now rendered mostly inaccessible by fallen rocks and made more dangerous by persistent aftershocks.
Photo






Because of its inaccessibility, assessing damage and the death toll in Barpak has proved difficult. The village was at the epicenter of the Nepal earthquake.

Credit
            Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times        


I quickly learned how to tell when a new tremor was coming: All of the dogs in the village started barking. Then the earth shook.When the tremors allow for it, the few dozen soldiers here help villagers dig out bodies when they are discovered. It took them almost two hours Tuesday to free the body of Purbahadur Gurung, which was frozen upright in the barbershop. The soldiers covered his head with a white cloth while they worked.
Continue reading the main story


            Nepal Earthquake: Where to Donate        








A list of some of the groups soliciting donations for relief efforts in Nepal.
Go to List »



 




About two dozen neighbors who had been digging with their hands through nearby piles of bricks and stone and wood paused. Farmers who had been ferrying haystack after haystack on their backs, up and down the hills, stopped working to join a 30-minute funeral procession. They carried the man’s makeshift wooden coffin up the mountain to a small cemetery of stone tombs above the village where they burned incense, scattered flowers, said prayers and rested from the digging.In the capital, Kathmandu, the military and international relief organizations have established aid centers and have begun the difficult task of assessing the damage. The government has tallied the dead — more than 7,000 nationwide.
Photo






Soldiers unearthed the body of a man still upright in a chair at the village barbershop in Barpak.

Credit
            Daniel Berehulak for The New York Times        


But in remote villages like Barpak many are still missing, and the extent of the damage in areas difficult to reach in the best of times remains unknown.
Here in Barpak, a rich agricultural life built on a mountainside plateau has been erased. About 1,200 of the village’s 1,450 buildings are gone or so severely damaged that they might as well be. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs of Earthquake Devastation in Nepal            

                When Nepal was hit with a powerful earthquake the tremor shattered lives, landmarks and the very landscape of the country. The scope of the disaster in photographs.            












The village was built on the mountain, from the mountain, with most residents building their homes from slabs of heavy stone scraped its sides. But the local stone proved far more vulnerable during the earthquake than fabricated concrete. Wood and stone buildings crumbled easily, collapsing and blanketing the village and its inhabitants in debris. Houses made of concrete largely withstood the earthquake.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
The Indian military has provided support to about 60 Nepalese soldiers, coordinating aid from a temporary command post here. They have transported emergency food aid — 60-pound bags of rice, beans and dry goods — by helicopter, but it is barely enough, residents here say. And there is no way to get heavy machinery or construction materials here to provide safe temporary shelter, not to mention to begin rebuilding.Some families have salvaged corrugated metal sheets from the rooftops to build temporary shelters. They drape the blue and orange plastic sheets dropped by the Nepalese and Indian armies to create tents. The colors of the tarpaulins signal to the air forces overhead that the village has received its allotted aid — for now.
I accompanied the villagers up the mountainside, through the late afternoon chill, as they buried the body of Mr. Gurung.As the sun began to set behind a mountain on the western side of the valley, the villagers escorted the grieving mother down the hillside trail to the village, where we would all spend the night in tents.Villagers are afraid to stay in the few buildings that still stand; when the dogs start barking and the earth starts shaking, they, too, can come crashing down.


 Correction: May 8, 2015  
The Barpak Journal article on Wednesday, about a search for victims of the Nepal earthquake in Barpak, a village at the epicenter, misstated, in some editions, the age of Purbahadur Gurung, whose body was found in the barbershop chair he was sitting in when the quake struck. He was 26, not 22. 



This article is by Daniel Berehulak, who won the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for feature photography, as told to Jeffrey Marcus, who reported from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on May 6, 2015, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: High in the Himalayas, a Search Yields Grim Results .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












