Nepal’s Bureaucracy Is Blamed as Earthquake Relief Supplies Pile Up - NYTimes.com 



Nepal’s Bureaucracy Is Blamed as Earthquake Relief Supplies Pile Up - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|Nepal’s Bureaucracy Is Blamed as Earthquake Relief Supplies Pile Up
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1GIp7cO




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Asia Pacific 
Nepal’s Bureaucracy Is Blamed as Earthquake Relief Supplies Pile Up

By GARDINER HARRISMAY 3, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Photo






Tents and other supplies for earthquake victims at the airport in Kathmandu on Sunday.

Credit
            Danish Siddiqui/Reuters        




Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
KATHMANDU, Nepal — Relief supplies for earthquake victims have been piling up at the airport and in warehouses here because of bureaucratic interference by Nepalese authorities who insist that standard customs inspections and other procedures be followed, even in an emergency, officials with Western governments and aid organizations said on Sunday.“The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy,” Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator, said in an interview. “So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don’t need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses. We don’t need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas.”The United States ambassador to Nepal, Peter W. Bodde, said he had spoken to Nepal’s prime minister, Sushil Koirala, about the issue and “he assured me that all the red tape will be stopped.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Hints of Normalcy in Katmandu, but Rebuilding Lies AheadMAY 2, 2015












Nepal’s Fast Urbanization and Lax Enforcement Add to Quake’s TollMAY 1, 2015












3 Ways Nepalis Are Using Crowdsourcing to Aid in Quake ReliefMAY 1, 2015












Q&A: Times Journalist Ellen Barry Answers Readers’ Questions on NepalMAY 1, 2015












Frustration Grows in Nepal as Earthquake Relief Trickles InAPRIL 28, 2015







Also Sunday, three survivors were pulled from rubble in the Sindhupalchok District, an especially hard-hit and largely rural area north of Kathmandu. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs of Earthquake Devastation in Nepal            

                When Nepal was hit with a powerful earthquake the tremor shattered lives, landmarks and the very landscape of the country. The scope of the disaster in photographs.            











Officials of aid organizations and Western governments have been grumbling about the Nepalese government since the earthquake, with a magnitude of 7.8, struck the country on April 25, killing more than 7,000 people. Early complaints said the government had all but disappeared, a criticism that even top officials here acknowledge was fair.“Everyone was panicked, everything was closed, and we all tried to save our own lives,” Purna Bahadur Khadka, joint general secretary of the governing Nepali Congress, said in an interview at the prime minister’s official residence. “And some critics can say there was no proper coordination for the first two days.”But sometime over the past week, the government revived, Mr. Khadka said. And that is when, Western aid officials say, government officials began insisting that a list of rules must be followed, even for emergency relief supplies.Mr. Bodde said it was a problem that the United States intended to help fix, as a huge C-17 transport plane unloaded a UH-1Y helicopter and, separately, four Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft flew into Nepal on Sunday to help carry supplies from Kathmandu to devastated rural areas.“That’s why we’re here today,” Mr. Bodde said as the C-17 rolled to a stop.But even that help had been delayed, according to Marine Lt. Col Edward Powers, the helicopter pilot.
Continue reading the main story


            Nepal Earthquake: Where to Donate        








A list of some of the groups soliciting donations for relief efforts in Nepal.
Go to List »



 



“We’ve been sitting on a ramp in Okinawa for the last 72 hours,” waiting for permission to land at Kathmandu, Colonel Powers said at the airport.Minendra Rijal, the minister for information and communication and the government’s official spokesman, denied that the government had slowed any delivery of aid.“The accusations are false,” Mr. Rijal said in a telephone interview. “It would be better if the U.N. involved itself more in its duties rather than engaging in criticizing the government.”Yet Mr. McGoldrick said that delays were occurring not only at the Kathmandu airport but at border crossings with India and even at district headquarters across the country, and Nepalese journalists have quoted customs officials at the Indian border crossings as affirming that relief supplies needed to “go through strict inspections.”
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. McGoldrick said that while the Nepalese government had loosened its requirements in the past day, time was essential.“Planting season is six weeks away, and if you miss that you’ll need to deliver food aid for another three months,” he said. “The monsoon is coming in eight weeks. So it’s very precarious.” 
Continue reading the main story



                Map            

                Maps of the Damage From the Nepal Earthquakes            

                Maps show the landscape of temporary shelters, the epicenter of the earthquake and its aftershocks.            








                    OPEN Map                




District officials said in a series of interviews that food and tents had yet to reach some remote villages because of transportation problems, not bureaucracy.“The food supply is O.K. in the villages surrounding district headquarters, but we have not yet been able to make any normal supply in remoter parts of the districts,” said Basudev Ghimire, the chief district officer of Dhading District.Anil Kumar Thakur, the chief district officer of Bhaktapur District, said bureaucratic requirements had prevented most distributions of cash under a plan to compensate families who suffered deaths.“Although we have already started to distribute cash relief, it is not going well,” Mr. Thakur added. “It requires verification letters from police and other documents that establishes relations with the deceased one.”The bureaucracy and political machinery in Nepal are unusually independent of each other, which has mostly been a good thing over the past 10 years as the political process has been paralyzed by squabbling. Bureaucracy officials, however, take their jobs very seriously, and some might fear that if they do not document all aid distributions, they could later face accusations that they kept the goods for themselves.Outside Kathmandu, more victims of the earthquake were still being discovered. In the Langtang Valley in the northern Rasuwa District, according to Reuters, a police team found the bodies of about 50 people, including some foreigners, on a popular trekking route.Also Sunday, civil aviation authorities announced that they had closed the Kathmandu airport to the largest jets, or those weighing more than 196 metric tons, for fear they could damage the runways.“We feared that the possible damage of our only international airport would invite further problems in the post-quake scenario, so the landing of heavy planes has now been restricted,” said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport’s acting general manager.Mr. Shrestha said the government and humanitarian organizations involved in providing relief to earthquake victims are mounting pressure to lift that ban. “But we are not in favor” of doing so, he said, adding that permission for the C-17 to land had been arranged previously.


 Correction: May 15, 2015  
An article on May 4 about the warehousing of relief supplies for victims of the April 25 earthquake in Nepal misidentified one of the aircraft unloaded from a C-17 transport plane sent by the United States to help carry supplies into devastated areas. It was a UH-1Y helicopter — not a UH-17, which is an earlier vertical takeoff and landing aircraft. 



Bhadra Sharma contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on May 4, 2015, on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Nepal’s Bureaucracy Blamed as Quake Relief Supplies Pile Up.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












