Philippines gets more than its share of disasters - CNN.com
Philippines gets more than its share of disasters - CNN.com


















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











Philippines gets more than its share of disasters



By Hilary Whiteman, CNN
updated 9:10 PM EST, Fri December 5, 2014
















STORY HIGHLIGHTS


The Philippines is one of the most disaster-hit countries in the world
Typhoon Hagupit following path towards places hit by Super Typhoon Haiyan
The country sits in the western Pacific Ocean, a vast expanse of warm water
Steep mountains increase the risk of landslides, and low-lying areas are easily flooded











(CNN) -- Powered by ferocious winds, Typhoon Hagupit is whipping towards central Philippines and could affect the same area hit by the deadly Typhoon Haiyan just 13 months ago, several forecasts show.
With winds gusting up to 172 miles per hour (277 kilometers per hour), the strongest storm of 2014 could slam into the Philippines, a country of more than 92 million people all too familiar with destructive weather.
Forecasters don't know exactly where Hagupit, or Ruby as it's known in the Philippines, will make landfall. But local authorities estimate that about 44 provinces, home to 35 million people could be in the storm's projected path.


Super Typhoon Hagupit


Typhoons are compared in terms of intensity, wind speeds, gusts, rainfall and, for the people in their path, homes and lives lost, and dollars and time needed to rebuild.
Super Typhoon Haiyan, or Yolanda as it was known locally, which struck in 2013, was recorded as the strongest tropical cyclone ever to make landfall anywhere in the world in recorded history.












This image captured by NASA's Aqua satellite shows Typhoon Hagupit on Wednesday, Dec. 3, 2014 at 04:30 UTC in the western Pacific Ocean. The Philippines weather bureau is advising the public to brace for Typhoon Hagupit which continues to head towards the country. 






Residents arrive at an evacuation center in Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines Thursday, Dec. 4, 2014, as they prepare for approaching Typhoon Hagupit.






Philippine President Benigno Aquino III, right, and Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa watch the presentation of officials of the National Disaster Risk Reduction & Management Council in Manila. 






Meteorologists from the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) monitor and plot the direction of super typhoon Hagupit on December 4, 2014.






Typhoon Haiyan survivors, some of whom are still living in tents, queue up to buy groceries in Tacloban city, in central Philippines in anticipation of the incoming Typhoon Hagupit which is forecasted to hit the country this weekend.






A woman from Tanauan township boards a tuk tuk carrying her belongings in anticipation of Typhoon Hagupit.






Typhoon Hagupit heads to Philippines





HIDE CAPTION



<<
<





1





2





3





4





5





6


>
>>





Typhoon Hagupit







Tacloban braces for Super Typhoon Hagupit





Year's worst storm threatens Philippines





Super typhoon could hit Philippines





Typhoon Haiyan: A survivor's story

READ: Super Typhoon Haiyan hits central Philippines
What's in a name?
Typhoons and hurricanes are both tropical cyclones, but they assume different names, depending on their location.
Typhoons form in the northwest Pacific Ocean, west of the international date line. They become Super Typhoons if they reach maximum sustained 1-minute surface winds of at least 240 kilometers per hour (150 mph, or 130 knots), according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
A Super Typhoon is the equivalent of a strong Category 4 or 5 hurricane in the Atlantic, or a Category 5 severe tropical cyclone in the Australian basin.
The Philippines is in the firing line of typhoons, for a number of reasons.
In Tacloban, children ripped from arms
Path of destruction
The Philippines sits on the western rim of the Pacific Ocean, the most active area for tropical cyclones because of the vast expanse of deep, warm ocean water.
The country comprises more than 7,000 islands, leaving plenty of exposed coast at the mercy of wind and rain.
More than 92 million people live there, most of them outside the capital, Manila, where 12 million people are packed into one of the most densely populated cities in the world.
Last year, Super Typhoon Haiyan made landfall south of the capital, while most people were sleeping, about 4:30 a.m. The devastating storm killed more than 6,000 people as it crashed into the Eastern Visayas region where it severely devastated the city of Tacloban, and then struck the Central Visayas.
Frequency
An average of eight or nine tropical cyclones make landfall in the Philippines each year. Eleven typhoons have affected the country this year, compared with the record of 19 that smashed into the coast in 1993, according to PAGASA, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration.
The Philippines is covered in mountains, which drop sharply to coastal areas, increasing the risk of devastating landslides. Storm surges are also a risk along the populated coasts. Despite the frequency of violent storms, many of the buildings are not built to withstand a heavy battering from strong wind and rain.
Over the last decade, the Philippines has consistently ranked in the top five most disaster-hit countries -- along with China, the United States, India and Indonesia -- according to the Center for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters, or CRED.
High costs
By international standards, the Philippines may be showing strong annual economic growth, but it's one of the poorest countries in the world, ranking 165th in GDP per capita, according to the CIA World Factbook. 
In 2013, GDP per capita was $4,700.
Any natural disasters deal a hefty blow to the country's finances. The cost of Super Typhoon Haiyan reached over $13 billion, according to some estimates.
It was by far the biggest natural disaster to hit the country in terms of the number of people affected and the total cost of damage, according to the International Disaster Database.

CNN's Madison Park contributed to this report.





















































Part of complete coverage on 
CNN Recommends 


10 questions about AirAsia tragedy

updated 11:28 AM EST, Tue December 30, 2014




With the discovery of debris from the AirAsia plane, investigators move closer to discovering what happened. What are the key questions, and what comes next?



AirAsia disaster's lasting impact

updated 11:40 AM EST, Tue December 30, 2014




The growth of AirAsia has been a regional aviation success story. The reason behind the loss of Flight QZ 8501 will be key to whether passengers start to shun it, says Alan Khee-Jin Tan.



'Africa is not a country' campaign

updated 5:45 AM EST, Fri February 7, 2014




They say there are no stupid questions -- but are there? How about, "Do you speak African?"



What broke China's Internet in 2014

updated 9:39 AM EST, Wed December 31, 2014




The year of outrage also applies to China's Internet users in 2014.



Swimming face-to-face with sharks

updated 8:21 AM EDT, Sat August 16, 2014




One man swims among sharks without the protection of a cage to make studio-quality, intimate photos of the sea creatures.



Turning footsteps into free energy

updated 6:50 AM EST, Tue December 30, 2014




Using a technology that has been around for 130 years, a company called Pavegen hopes to create electricity from everyday human activities.



Father of Web predicts next phase

updated 12:06 PM EST, Tue December 23, 2014




What's next for the Internet? Acclaimed scientist and fatherof the World Wide Web Sir Tim Berners-Lee shares his insights.



Best Instagram art of 2014

updated 7:45 AM EST, Tue December 30, 2014




Gone are the days of grainy phone images with the resolution of a poor imitation Monet.



'Killing will be our religious duty'

updated 4:00 PM EST, Mon December 22, 2014




A chilling video shows Boko Haram executing dozens of non-Muslims. 



The year in pictures 

updated 12:45 PM EST, Mon December 29, 2014




"The year in pictures" treks across the globe, looking back on the events that shaped 2014.



Defining Moments: Our changing world

updated 11:07 AM EST, Mon December 29, 2014




Each day, CNN brings you an image capturing a moment to remember, defining the present in our changing world.



Scenes from the field





Browse through images from CNN teams around the world that you don't always see on news reports.







 

















   
     











