Ancient Collision Made Nepal Earthquake Inevitable - NYTimes.com 



Ancient Collision Made Nepal Earthquake Inevitable - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Science|Ancient Collision Made Nepal Earthquake Inevitable
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1z6ckDX




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Science 
Ancient Collision Made Nepal Earthquake Inevitable

By KENNETH CHANGAPRIL 25, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By









Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
More than 25 million years ago, India, once a separate island on a quickly sliding piece of the Earth’s crust, crashed into Asia. The two land masses are still colliding, pushed together at a speed of 1.5 to 2 inches a year. The forces have pushed up the highest mountains in the world, in the Himalayas, and have set off devastating earthquakes.Experts had warned of the danger to the people of Katmandu for decades. The death toll in Nepal on Saturday was practically inevitable given the tectonics, the local geology that made the shaking worse and the lax construction of buildings that could not withstand the shaking.GeoHazards International, a nonprofit organization in Menlo Park, Calif., that tries to help poorer, more vulnerable regions like Nepal prepare for disasters, had noted that major earthquakes struck that region about every 75 years. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Live: Latest Updates on Earthquake in Nepal 











Nepal Terrorized by Aftershocks, Hampering Relief EffortsAPRIL 26, 2015












Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900APRIL 25, 2015












Everest Climbers Are Killed as Nepal Quake Sets Off AvalancheAPRIL 25, 2015







In 1934 — 81 years ago — more than 10,000 people died in a magnitude 8.1 earthquake in eastern Nepal, about six miles south of Mount Everest. A smaller quake in 1988 with a magnitude of 6.8 killed more than 1,000 people. 
Continue reading the main story



                Map            

                Maps of the Damage From the Nepal Earthquakes            

                Maps show the landscape of temporary shelters, the epicenter of the earthquake and its aftershocks.            








                    OPEN Map                




Brian Tucker, president and founder of GeoHazards, said that in the 1990s, his organization predicted that if the 1934 quake were to happen again, 40,000 people would die because of migration to the city where tall, flimsily built buildings would collapse.In an update just this month, GeoHazards wrote, “With an annual population growth rate of 6.5 percent and one of the highest urban densities in the world, the 1.5 million people living in the Katmandu Valley were clearly facing a serious and growing earthquake risk.”The organization helped set up a local nonprofit to continue preparations, including the reinforcement of schools and hospitals.Saturday’s earthquake occurred to the northwest of Katmandu at a relatively shallow depth, about nine miles, which caused greater shaking at the surface, but at magnitude 7.8, it released less energy than the 1934 quake.Roger Bilham, a professor of geological sciences at the University of Colorado who has studied the history of earthquakes in that region, said that the shaking lasted one to two minutes, and the fault slipped about 10 feet along the rupture zone, which stretched 75 miles, passing under Katmandu.The earthquake “translated the whole city southward by 10 feet,” Dr. Bilham said. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs            

                Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the Earthquake            

                The earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 flattened sections of Katmandu’s historic center, where many structures were made with bricks.            








                    OPEN Photographs                




Aftershocks as large as magnitude 6.6 have occurred mostly to the northeast of Katmandu.It is possible that the Saturday quake is a preface to an even larger one, but Dr. Bilham said that was unlikely.Katmandu and the surrounding valley sit on an ancient dried-up lake bed, which contributed to the devastation. “Very, very soft soil, and the soft soil amplifies seismic motion,” Dr. Tucker said.Steep slopes in the area are also prone to avalanches like the one that the quake triggered on Mount Everest on Saturday.Katmandu is not the only place where a deadly earthquake has been expected.Dr. Tucker said Tehran; Haiti; Lima, Peru; and Padang, Indonesia, were similarly vulnerable. In those places, nearby tectonic faults are under strain, and building standards and disaster preparations are seen as inadequate.But not everywhere has been complacent. Over the past 76 years, many earthquakes have occurred along a fault in northern Turkey, starting in the eastern part of the country and progressing west, toward Istanbul. An earthquake in 1999 killed more than 17,000 people, mostly in the city of Izmit, east of Istanbul. The expectation is that the epicenter of the next big earthquake will be in or around Istanbul.“Istanbul is the place that has been most aggressive in enforcing building codes,” Dr. Tucker said. “I think Istanbul has been doing a good job.”


A version of this article appears in print on April 26, 2015, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Ancient Slam Made Quake Inevitable Epochs Later.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












