After the earthquake: appeal launched for NepalAfter the earthquake: appeal launched for Nepal



accessibility & help


Jump to main content [Access key 'S' or '2']
Primary navigation [Access key '5' or 'N']
Secondary navigation [Access key '6']











Accessibility

Help

Contact us


Text: 
A 
		        A 
		        A 
		    
 Stylesheet: 
High Visibility 
Low Contrast 
Regular 



Search

Search


Go















        Primary Navigation



Home




What we do








    First aid
    





Everyday First Aid
First aid training
Baby and Child First Aid
Event first aid and ambulance support
Mobile app



    Emergency response
    





Current emergency appeals



    Preparing for disasters 
    










    Finding missing family
    






    Health and social care
    





Independent living
Health issues
Social support overseas



    Protecting people in conflict
    






    Refugee support
    






    Teaching resources
    












Where we work








    In the UK
    





Northern England
Southern England
Scotland
Northern Ireland and Isle of Man
Wales







    Overseas
    












About us








    Who we are
    





First World War
Every crisis is personal



    Media centre
    






    Advocacy
    





Health and social care
First aid
Refugees
International resilience







    Jobs
    





Overseas jobs



    High-profile supporters
    






    Help
    






    News
    






    Register for email updates
    












Get involved








    Red Cross week 
    






    Volunteer
    






    Get the story straight
    






    Our shops
    





Donate to our charity shops



    Events
    





Challenges and social events
Open Gardens
Dance: Make Your Move







    Get fundraising
    





Fundraise for us
Recycle for us
Help in other ways



    Opportunities for young people
    






    Join our online community
    






    Corporate support
    












Donate








    Make a single donation
    






    Make a regular donation
    






    Give to a special project
    






    Make a major donation
    





Tiffany Circle







    Payroll giving
    






    Leave a legacy
    






    Donate in memory
    






    Donation enquiries
    






    Our fundraisers
    












Shop








    Books
    






    Education
    






    First aid
    






    Gifts for her
    






    Gifts for him
    










    Greetings cards
    






    Home, garden and gifts
    






    Independent living
    






    Sale
    






    Toys and games
    












Blogs








    First aid
    






    Health
    






    International
    










    Emergencies
    






    Resilience
    






    UK
    




















About us >
News >
2015 >
April >
After the earthquake: appeal launched for Nepal

After the earthquake: appeal launched for Nepal




Regular donation
Single donation













                    Please donate to the Nepal Earthquake Appeal
                    






£30
£50
£100






Donate byCredit card





















26 April 2015






			© Info
		


Following yesterday’s devastating earthquake in Nepal, the British Red Cross has launched an appeal to provide urgent emergency support.
Thousands of lives have been lost to the quake – the worst to hit the region in 80 years – including staff and volunteers from the Nepal Red Cross. More than six million people living within 100 kilometres of the epicentre have potentially been affected.
Making matters worse, rain is predicted throughout the region over the next three days – which will only add to the numerous pressures facing an already desperate population.
The Red Cross appeal will bring in urgently-needed support – including food, safe drinking water, emergency shelter and medical equipment. Every donation will make a big difference.
Search for survivors
Since the disaster hit, Nepal Red Cross volunteers have been searching for survivors through the rubble of collapsed buildings. They are also providing first aid to those injured by the earthquake.  
And with so many casualties, the organisation’s solar-powered blood bank in Kathmandu is providing life-saving support. 
Built recently – for just these kind of circumstances – it is providing vital blood supplies to medical facilities in the capital. 
Cut-off communities
Alexander Matheou, British Red Cross director of programmes, said: “The impact of this powerful earthquake has been devastating.
“People are now sleeping out in the open, too scared to return home while the aftershocks go on. Some have no home to return to.”
He added: “Search and rescue efforts are continuing, but some roads, especially in areas near the epicentre, have been damaged or blocked by landslides or rubble. We are extremely worried about these communities.”
Missing family members
The Red Cross is also offering support to those who have lost contact with family members following the earthquake. 
If you have been unable to reach loved ones in the area, the International Committee of Red Cross’ family links website may be able to help. 
Those concerned about other British nationals can contact the Foreign & Commonwealth Office on 0207 008 0000.
Trained and prepared
While the situation in Nepal is terrible, many people in the region were already trained and prepared for the worst. 
For years now, the British Red Cross – together with Nepal Red Cross – has been working on an earthquake preparedness programme with 66 communities across the Kathmandu valley.
Hundreds of thousands of people have been given useful earthquake preparedness information, and thousands more have been trained in both first aid and light search and rescue techniques.
Find out more about how Nepal prepares for earthquakes.

How we’re helping in Nepal.
Why is Kathmandu such a vulnerable city?



        Related Tags:

News
International
Nepal
Earthquake





Related
Latest news









13 May 2015
International community must work together to tackle migration crisis


The head of the British Red Cross has called for a collective response to the Mediterranean migration crisis. 









13 May 2015
Joint statement: Red Cross calls for action on migration crisis 


Twenty European Red Cross Societies and the IFRC have signed a statement on the migration crisis in the Mediterranean.  









12 May 2015
Nepal earthquake updates


Latest updates from Nepal following a second major earthquake. 



	Sign up for emails

Enter your email address below to receive the latest Red Cross news

Your email





	Related links


 Emergency response
 Disaster Fund







Secondary NavigationWho we areMedia centreAdvocacyJobsHigh-profile supportersHelpNews2015AprilAfter the earthquake: appeal launched for NepalDonate to the Nepal Earthquake AppealNepal's first earthquake-defying blood bank opened five days before earthquakeRed Cross brings shelter and fights disease threat after quakeSupport for earthquake survivors as plane touches downTerrified earthquake victims sleep outsideHealth and social care must use 'a common language'Shocking figure reveals suffering on migrant boatsMore support for migrants as Italian landings continueAll-party support for the British Red CrossAround the world in 621 daysHelp for migrants after dangerous sea journeysRed Cross helps Britons fleeing Yemen violenceRed Cross launches Yemen Crisis AppealSurgeons start work amid Yemen violenceYemen: Red Cross support for “one of the largest disasters in the world”Register for email updates





Further information

Helpful Links



Privacy policy and cookies document




Terms and conditions




Help




Contact us




Sitemap




Jobs




Mobile Site




Copyright Details
© British Red Cross 2015

              All images © British Red Cross 2015
              unless otherwise stated
            


Join our network



facebook 
                



twitter 
                



You-Tube 
                



flickr 
                



Wordpress 
                



RSS 
                



Further Information

            British Red Cross, UK Office, 44 Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AL Phone: 0844 871 11 11. Fax: 020 7562 2000.
            The British Red Cross Society, incorporated by Royal Charter 1908, is a charity registered in England and Wales (220949) and Scotland (SC037738)
          



> 
              Print this page
            







Home page
main content
Site map page
Search
Primary navigation
Secondary navigation
Accessibility





