  Typhoon Haiyan Philippines Aid Organization Donations
  Typhoon Haiyan Philippines Aid Organization Donations




Please upgrade your browser for the best Refinery29 experience.  Read more.



Jump to header
Jump to navigation
Jump to footer
























Sign Up


Choose Your Editions










        Shopping
      







        London
      







        New York
      









        Everywhere
      







        Chicago
      







        Los Angeles
      







        San Francisco
      






Oops! That's not a real email address.






Now we're email buddies!


You have chosen to receive our #NAMED_LISTS# newsletters at #EMAIL_ADDRESS#. You will receive an e-mail shortly confirming your subscription. So excited to have you!
xoxo,  Refinery 29












Refinery29





Follow @refinery29


























Search


search
x




Fashion


Beauty


Living


Wellness


Entertainment


            Local
      
    

Shopping


Holiday






Shopping


Styling Tips


Designers


Street Style


Trends


Celebs & Influencers


College


The List






Hair


Nails


Makeup


Skin Care


Fragrance


Celebs & Influencers


Beauty Prep School


Beauty Nation






Travel


Home


Food & Drinks


Tech


Work & Money




Weekender


Weddings






Trends


Diet & Nutrition


Fitness


Sex


Spirit






Movies & Tv


Music


Art & Books


Celebrities


Trends


Red Carpet


Festival Tracker






New York


Los Angeles


San Francisco


London


Chicago






Typhoon Haiyan Disaster: 5 Ways You Can Help

Read Next




Spent Too Much Money Over The Holidays? Read This





From Wahlberg To Bieber: A Calvin Klein Underwear Retrospective





39 Girls Who Are Mad As Hell About Lilly Pulitzer For Target

















        71

    
    SHARES
  















Typhoon Haiyan Disaster: 5 Ways You Can Help



    
    comments











Nov 11, 2013 2:45 PM

Matthew Zuras
















          71

      
      SHARES
    








Photo: Bullit Marquez/Corbis. 
We reported last week that Typhoon Haiyan was barreling toward the Philippines with devastating force. The typhoon, one of the most powerful storms ever recorded, made landfall there Friday, leaving a wake of destruction behind it as it headed through Vietnam and towards Southern China, continuing its deadly trajectory. The damage in the Philippines is staggering: Officials estimate that there are approximately 10,000 dead, and that millions will be in need of basic aid in the coming days. The impact on property and infrastructure could well reach into the billions. Over 56,000 homes were destroyed on the island of Panay alone.

Even as the catastrophe continues to unfold and details remain hazy, you can still help. These five aid organizations are actively on the ground in the Philippines and attending to the many, many people affected by the typhoon. This list is not at all exhaustive, as there are many other aid and charity organizations also assisting relief efforts, but these are good places to start:Doctors Without Borders
Doctors Without Borders reports that the situation on the ground in the Philippines is still unknown: "There is a massive lack of information on the situation in rural and remote areas," the organization writes. "Many medical structures have been damaged or destroyed, with medical supplies washed away." Doctors Without Borders will support the military, which is currently providing some medical care, as well local hospitals that are still in operation after the typhoon.Make a donation to Doctors Without Borders here.
International Rescue Committee (IRC)
The IRC is deploying teams to the Philippines and launching an immediate fundraising appeal in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan. The IRC operates in over 40 countries and typically arrives on the scene within 72 hours of a disaster, providing supplies and guidance in times of chaos.Make a donation to the IRC here.
International Red Cross (ICRC)
The ICRC has sent assessment and rescue teams to the areas affected by the typhoon, though both the Philippine Red Cross and the ICRC offices in Tacloban, one of the worst-hit areas, have been damaged by the storm, complicating the rescue process. The ICRC dispatched food and supplies to Tacloban, but the trucks have yet to reach their destination. The organization is sending additional personnel to help with relief efforts.Make a donation to the ICRC here.
UNICEF
The global children's advocacy organization estimates that up to four million children could now be affected by the disaster in the Philippines. UNICEF already sent food and supplies to some 3,000 families, and is currently airlifting $1.3 million worth of additional supplies for another 10,000 families. Make a donation to UNICEF here.
Save the Children
Save the Children has sent response teams to Tacloban to help the children and families there, but it has also deployed aid workers to Vietnam. The organization reports that it has warehouses in Hanoi and Da Nang stocked with 6,000 household, hygiene, and education kits ready for distribution.Make a donation to Save the Children here.








SHARE THIS STORY


TWEET THIS STORY

 

Typhoon Haiyan Philippines Aid Organization Donations











    COMMENTS
    













 More  Stories
      





 Work & Money 










Spent Too Much Money Over The Holidays? Read This






Jan 7, 2015 10:00 PM





Holly Perez




You shopped. You celebrated. You decked the halls. It’s now January, and you realize you may have also spent too much during the holidays. Sound familiar? If you are in the red, it’s time to nurse that holiday financial hangover back to health! To help you tackle the barrage of credit card bills and payments coming read






 Los Angeles 




slideshow









From Wahlberg To Bieber: A Calvin Klein Underwear Retrospective






Jan 7, 2015 7:30 PM





Ali Hoffman




Unless you've been living under a rock for the past 24 hours, you've already heard that Justin Bieber is officially the new face of Calvin Klein. Photos of the Biebs' campaign — he stars in the spring ads for both Calvin Klein Underwear and Calvin Klein Jeans — hit the web yesterday, and despite our disappointment with read











Company



            About
          



            Press
          



            Advertising
          



            Feedback
          



            We're hiring
          



            R29 News
          



            Sitemap
          





            View Mobile Site
          





Connect with R29




Facebook





Pinterest





Twitter





Instagram





Tumblr





Youtube





Spotify





RSS







 © 2015 Refinery29
Terms
Privacy

Made with love in NYC

























Back to header
Back to navigation
Back to footer










 



















