WFP Rushes Food And Relief Supplies To Nepal Earthquake Survivors | WFP | United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide
WFP Rushes Food And Relief Supplies To Nepal Earthquake Survivors | WFP | United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide






Français
Español
العربية
More中文
Dansk
Nederlands
فارسی
Suomi
Deutsch
Italiano
日本語
한국어
Norsk
Русский
Svenska

 

Donate 




Search this site: 









World Food Programme Fighting Hunger Worldwide 
AboutExecutive Director
Publications
Senior Leadership
Partners
Corporate Information
Ambassadors
Funding
Careers
Mission Statement
Contact
Strategic Plan

HungerWhat is Hunger?
Who are the Hungry?
What causes Hunger?
What is Malnutrition?
Hunger Map
Hunger Stats
Hunger FAQs
Zero Hunger

Our workOur ProgrammesCash and Vouchers
Food for Assets
HIV / AIDS
Purchase for Progress
School Meals
Centre of Excellence

Our ExpertisePreparedness: Being Ready
Responding to Emergencies
Food Security Analysis: Getting the Facts
Procurement: Buying the Food
Nutrition: Right Food, Right Time
Logistics: Delivering the Food
Disaster Risk Reduction
Climate Change

Our OperationsCurrent Emergencies
Emergency Operations
Relief & Recovery Operations
Special Operations


CountriesAfricaAlgeria
Benin
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Congo, Democratic Republic Of
Congo, Republic Of
Côte D'Ivoire
Djibouti
Egypt
Ethiopia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Rwanda
São Tomé And Principe
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania, United Republic Of
The Gambia
Togo
Tunisia
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe

AmericasBolivia
Colombia
Cuba
Ecuador
El Salvador
Guatemala
Haiti
Honduras
Nicaragua
Peru

AsiaAfghanistan
Armenia
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Cambodia
India
Indonesia
Korea, Democratic People's Republic (DPRK)
Kyrgyzstan
Lao PDR
Myanmar
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Sri Lanka
Tajikistan
Timor-Leste

Middle EastIran
Iraq
Jordan
Palestine, State of 
Syria
Yemen


How You Can Help
 


 







News
 Overview Stories News Releases Media Contacts 


WFP Rushes Food And Relief Supplies To Nepal Earthquake Survivors




            Published on 28 April 2015          




share + 




 
WFP is mobilising aid for Nepal at UN Humanitarian Response Depots around the world, such as this one in Dubai. Copyright: WFP/Doris Mauron 


 KATHMANDU – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is mounting an emergency operation to help survivors of the Nepal earthquake, with food trucks rolling today into the district of Gorkha, one of the worst-hit areas.

WFP plans to provide food for 1.4 million people in urgent need of assistance over the next three months at a cost of US$116.5 million. Distributions of rice are expected to start tomorrow (Wednesday) in Gorkha, using stocks that WFP already had in-country from its existing operations prior to the earthquake.
Trucks with WFP food are in Gorkha trying to reach the survivors, but landslides and poor roads are making conditions difficult. A helicopter will fly to the area to transport food onwards to more remote villages that are inaccessible by road. Emergency food supplies, including high-energy biscuits, are also being brought in by air from Bangladesh and Dubai in the next days.
A plane from the WFP-managed UN Humanitarian Response Depot in Malaysia arrived in Kathmandu this morning carrying field hospitals, medical supplies and aid workers.
“Our thoughts are with the people of Nepal at this terrible time,” said Pippa Bradford, WFP’s Country Director and Representative in Nepal. “Despite their own personal tragedies and difficult working conditions, our Nepali staff and their international colleagues are working flat out to help those in need of humanitarian assistance. Time is of the essence to get food to those who urgently needed it.”
In addition to food distributions, as the lead of the humanitarian community’s Logistics Cluster, WFP is also providing logistics support for the entire aid operation in Nepal.
WFP hopes to have two helicopters operational in the coming days to transport both humanitarian cargo and aid workers to the worst-affected areas.
At Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, WFP is operating a relief hub for the management and dispatch of the cargo flooding into the country. This Humanitarian Staging Area was opened last month as part of WFP’s emergency preparedness work with the government of Nepal, which has been focusing on preparing for such an emergency for several years now. As co-lead of the Emergency Telecommunications Cluster, WFP is also facilitating the humanitarian community’s communications systems.
In order to support logistics, telecommunications and air transport operations for the entire humanitarian community, WFP will need US$34 million over the next three months.
It is estimated that up to 8 million people have been affected by the earthquake. Initial estimates from WFP’s assessment teams -- working with satellite imagery and existing data -- indicate that around 1.4 million people in priority areas urgently need food assistance. Five teams are now conducting field assessments in 11 districts to verify these findings.
WFP is funded entirely by voluntary contributions and has appealed for anyone who wishes to help to make a donation at www.wfp.org/nepal.

	#                              #                                 #
WFP is the world's largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger worldwide, delivering food assistance in emergencies and working with communities to improve nutrition and build resilience. Each year, WFP assists some 80 million people in around 75 countries.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media, @WFP_Asia
For more information please contact (email address: firstname.lastname@wfp.org):
	Silke Buhr, WFP/Bangkok, Mob. +66-81-701-9208
	Sakun Gajurel, WFP/Kathmandu, Mob. +977-985-110-5247
	Jane Howard, WFP/Rome, Tel. +39 06 6513 2321, Mob. +39-346-7600-521
	Elisabeth Byrs, WFP/Geneva, Tel. +41 22 917 8564, Mob. +41 79 473 4570  
	Gregory Barrow, WFP/London, Tel.  +44 20 72409001, Mob.  +44 7968 008474
	Bettina Luescher, WFP/New York, Tel. +1 646 5566909, Mob. +1 646 8241112
	Steve Taravella, WFP/Washington DC, Tel. +1 202 653 1149, Mob. +1 202 770 5993
 




 
User Experience Survey

 Help us improve this site by taking this short 3-minute survey.









 





Latest News




19 May 2015
Nepal’s Operation Mountain Express


18 May 2015
10 Facts About Hunger In Madagascar


18 May 2015
WFP's Food for Work Helps Restore Schools in Sierra Leone



 

 


 






Follow World Food Programme on social networks

















2015 © World Food Programme



Donate 
Privacy
Terms of Use
Executive Board
WFP Alumni
Mobile Site






 

