Nepal Earthquake: 3700 Dead; 5.1 Magnitude Tremors in Bengal, Bihar
Nepal Earthquake: 3700 Dead; 5.1 Magnitude Tremors in Bengal, Bihar



























Search









Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
RSS




INDIA EDITION
                                



AUSTRALIA EDITION

CHINA EDITION

ITALY EDITION

JAPAN EDITION

U.K. EDITION
U.S. EDITION




WEDNESDAY, 20TH MAY, 2015



International Business Times







International Business Time India






News




India


World


Politics






iPhone 6s Release Date: New Specifications of the Device Confirmed; iPhone 7 Cou


'The Good Wife' Season 7 Spoilers: Will Alicia Move against Diane and Cary?


'Game of Thrones' Season 5: What's Next for Sansa after her Wedding Night Horror


'The Voice' Season 8 Winner to be Announced: Will Sawyer Fredericks Beat Meghan 






Business




Companies


Markets


Finance


Regulation






SpiceJet  Offers Discounts On Completion of Ten Years; to Raise ₹900 Crore


Samsung and Xiaomi Lead India's 4G Smartphone Market, Lenovo A6000 Becomes Most 


Housing.com CEO Rahul Yadav to Appear in AMA Session on Reddit


Will Renewed Middle East Tensions Have Impact on Crude Oil Supplies?









Technology




Smartphones


Tablets


Internet


Games


Autos






iPhone 6s Release Date: New Specifications of the Device Confirmed; iPhone 7 Cou


Huawei Honor 6 Plus Review: Best sub ₹30,000 Camera Smartphone with a Huge Bat


Meizu M1 Note vs Lenovo S60: Choose Your Mid-Range Smartphone


GreenDust to Host Unboxed Apple iPhone 5S Flash Sale on 20 May






Sport




Football


Tennis


Golf


Cricket






Rahul Dravid, Sourav Ganguly Sign up for Sachin Tendulkar-Shane Warne's Proposed


LIVE: CSK vs MI Live Blog and Updates of IPL 2015 Qualifier 1


Liverpool Transfer News: Sterling Set to Submit a Formal Transfer Request at Anf


IPL 2015: Brendon McCullum's Absence will Impact a Lot, Says CSK coach Stephen F






Entertainment




Bollywood


Hollywood


TV


Gossip






'The Good Wife' Season 7 Spoilers: Will Alicia Move against Diane and Cary?


'Game of Thrones' Season 5: What's Next for Sansa after her Wedding Night Horror


'The Voice' Season 8 Winner to be Announced: Will Sawyer Fredericks Beat Meghan 


'Pretty Little Liars' Season 6 Plot Rumours: Lucy Hale Says No One is Safe; Aria






Life & Style




Nikki Reed Turns 27: Cute Photos of the 'Twilight' Star with Ian Somerhalder


Big B, SRK, Deepika Padukone, Other B-Town Celebs who Attended Cannes Film Festi


Father's Day 2015: Germany Celebrates on 14 May; Google Doodle Similar to Mother


Cannes Film Festival 2015: Red Carpet Appearances of Mallika Sherawat over the Y


Is Former EXO Member Luhan Dating Wei Qian Ya?






Photos




Bollywood


Tamil


Telugu








								Jr NTR Releases his Son Abhay Ram's Pics								




								Tata Motors launches GenX Nano Car								




								Shriya Vyas at Rakshasudu Movie Audio Launch								




								Mohanlal Holidays in Japan								






IPL 2015




Rahul Dravid, Sourav Ganguly Sign up for Sachin Tendulkar-Shane Warne's Proposed


LIVE: CSK vs MI Live Blog and Updates of IPL 2015 Qualifier 1


IPL 2015: Brendon McCullum's Absence will Impact a Lot, Says CSK coach Stephen F


Sourav Ganguly Could Replace Ravi Shastri as Team India's Director: Reports


ICC Cricket Committee Discusses Test Cricket, ODI Playing Conditions, No Batting





Video



Technology


Entertainment


Sports


Politics






Play Robot round-up: Cattle herding with drones takes off in Australia


Play Arsene Wenger still aiming for second place Arsenal finish


Play Queen welcomes Prince Harry at Chelsea Flower Show


Play Man creates full body replica of Iron Man suit to dance in









 







 





Society







Nepal Earthquake: 3700 Dead; 5.1 Magnitude Tremors in Bengal, Bihar



By 
Mugdha Variyar

April 25, 2015 11:56 IST



 














 



Share on linkedin














 
 
 
1 of 2Massive destruction in Nepal after earthquake.TwitterMassive destruction in Nepal after earthquake.Twitter/Javed Aziz Khan





Fresh 6.7 Magnitude Earthquake in Nepal, Tremors Felt in India
Almost 3,700 people have been killed after a magnitude 7.9 earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday morning with massive tremors felt in Delhi and the entire northern region of India. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) upgraded the intensity from 7.5 to 7.9 on the Richter scale. 
SEE PHOTOS of EARTHQUAKE DESTRUCTION
The epicenter of the strong earthquake was reportedly in Nepal's Pokhara, but massive tremors were felt as far as Lucknow and Patna in India.
Helpline Numbers: Nepal earthquake emergency numbers: Police range (Kathmandu) 4261 945, 4261 790 
LIVE UPDATES: 
27 April
8.00 pm (IST): Fresh tremors of magnitude 5.1 on the Richter scale shook parts of West Bengal and Bihar on Monday. A quake was also reported from Jharkhand. 
The toll in India has crossed 70. 
1.08 pm (IST): As #ThankYouPM is the top trend on Twitter in India, PM Narendra Modi used the micro-blogging platform to thank Indians. 
"If we want to thank anyone, it should be the 125 crore people of India who have made Nepal's pain their own & extended all help," Modi tweeted. 

To all those saying #ThankYouPM- appreciate the sentiment…real thanks should be to our great culture, which teaches us 'Seva Parmo Dharma'.
— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 27, 2015

11.44 am (IST): Almost a million children have been "severely affected" in the Nepal earthquake a spokesman for the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) has reportedly said. 
9.15 am (IST): The toll has risen to 3,218, Nepal officials have confirmed.
26 April
9.50 pm (IST): The death toll has reached 2,500 in Nepal, while in India, the number of casualties have risen to 65.
6.50 pm (IST): At least 22 climbers are believed to be killed in avalanches at a base camp in Mt Everest, while scores are feared buried. 
5.20 pm (IST): Several people are said to have been buried under the snow. 
10.20 am (IST): 
Indian Army calls aid mission in earthquake-hit Nepal 'Operation Maitri'. 
25 April
9.09 pm (IST): The death toll has reached a staggering 1,500 in Nepal. In India, the toll has climbed to 41. 
9.06 pm (IST): Baba Ramdev is said to have had a narrow escape in Nepal. 

Kathmandu: I thank god that my program ended just a minute before the earthquake struck: Baba Ramdev #earthquake pic.twitter.com/OkLTpb1ALe
— ANI (@ANI_news) April 25, 2015

 
8.30 pm (IST): The death toll in Nepal has climbed to 970, and is likely to rise further. 
8.25 pm (IST): Indian tourists in Nepal being flown back home. 

RT @eoiktmnp IAF Aircraft with 52 Indians onboard to leave for Delhi, more aircrafts on the way to evacuate stranded Indians in Nepal.
— Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) April 25, 2015

8.20 pm (IST): Images of destruction from Everest base camp in Nepal. About 18 people were killed in an avalanche triggered by the Nepal earthquake. 

Azim Afif: Scores dead, missing, injured at Everest Base Camp. SAR still ongoing. No definite figure so far @501Awani pic.twitter.com/nzSlJdFzRl
— Rizal Zulkapli AWANI (@rizalzulkapli) April 25, 2015

7.39 pm (IST): Chilling images surfaced from Nepal's devastation. 

Startling images of destruction in #Nepal after 7.9-magnitude quake. http://t.co/HTFQqwlmK3 pic.twitter.com/hbNohVO3FU
— Chico Harlan (@chicoharlan) April 25, 2015

  7.35 pm (IST): The Indian armed forces have been deployed for rescue and aid in neighbouring Nepal.

#NepalEarthquake Inside of C-17 aircraft being readied for take off for Nepal with rescue personnel and load. pic.twitter.com/w6nPW4zW42 — Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015

6.55 pm (IST): The death toll is nearing 900, with scores of people still to be rescued from rubble of collapsed buildings. 
The death toll in India is at 34. 
5.07 pm (IST): The death toll in Nepal continues to rise, with the current figure at 700, and the numbers are likely to rise. 
4.30 pm (IST): An avalanche triggered by the Nepal earthquake at Mount Everest killed eight people at a base camp on Saturday, reuters reported. 
4.08 pm (IST): The death toll in Nepal has risen to 449, according to police officials, Reuters has reported. This is the most disastrous earthquake to hit Nepal in over eight decades. 
4.00 pm (IST): The death toll in India has risen to nearly 20, with most deaths reported from Bihar. 
3.15 pm (IST): The death toll in Nepal has already crossed 150, with the toll likely to rise. 
3.14 pm (IST): The death toll in India has risen to nine, according to reports. 
2.44 pm (IST): This is the link to Google's Person Finder app for the Nepal Earthquake

We've just launched a Person Finder instance to help track missing persons for the #Nepal earthquake-->http://t.co/3e4pNsOALm
— Google India (@googleindia) April 25, 2015

2.33 pm (IST): Landslides have been reported in Sikkim due to the earthquake. 
2.10 pm (IST): Five deaths reported in India. 3 from Bihar. 
Home Minister Rajnath Singh had earlier said that there were no preliminary reports of damage in India. 
1.52 pm (IST): The Nepal earthquake has reportedly triggered avalanches in the Mount Everest. 
1.48 pm (IST): Nepal's iconic Dharahara Tower, also known as Bhimsen Tower, has been reportedly destroyed. 

#Earthquake in #Nepal the grand Bhimsen tower now & before in #Kathmandu pic.twitter.com/VmTZ18AZ22
— Rajesh Shenoy (@ranjalrajesh) April 25, 2015


#Dharahara (Bhimsen Tower) the 19th century, 9-storey tall tower in #Kathmandu, has collapsed b/c #Nepalquake #Nepal pic.twitter.com/A7tbEx3RIv
— Stefan Simanowitz (@StefSimanowitz) April 25, 2015

1.45 pm (IST): The Indian Defence Ministry has put Indian Air Force and the Army on standby for rescue efforts related to the earthquake. 

#NepalEarthquake MoD puts Indian Army, BRO and IAF assets on standby for any task in view of the earthquake. @airnewsalerts @MEAIndia
— Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015

1.37 pm (IST): At least two deaths in Nepal. Toll likely to increase. 
1.30 pm (IST): Quake survivors are being rushed to hospitals with broken limbs, severe injuries. 
1.12 pm (IST): Two children are among the several casualties. One child was killed on the Indian side of the border with Nepal, according to Reuters. 
1.02 pm (IST): According to social media posts, nearly 400 people are feared buried in a building collapse in Kathmandu. 

this ninth-storey dharahara is comletely destroyed. around 400 are suspected to be buried. #earthquake #kathmandu pic.twitter.com/bOF2qoAq62
— Sagar Ghimire (@nepocean) April 25, 2015

12.50 pm (IST): The United States Geological Survey (USGS) has upgraded the intensity to 7.9 on the Richter scale. 
12.45 pm (IST): There are reports of casualties from the massive earthquake in Nepal. Buildings have collapsed. 
12.40 pm (IST): "We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home & in Nepal," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. 
In Nepal's capital of Kathmandu, reports of heavy damages are trickling out, with photos shared on social media showing collapsed buildings.  
Twitter was immediately abuzz about the earthquake, with many netizens posting in the middle of the tremors.
According to social media posts, tremors were also felt in Rajasthan and other parts of the country.
Earthquake tremors were also felt in Kolkata, TMC's Derek o'Brien tweeted, adding that some buildings 'shook'.

I hop everyone is safe. Still shaking from the major earthquake. Damage in my area #kathmandu pic.twitter.com/hUAzcLoLNv
— Bibek Bhandari (@bibekbhandari) April 25, 2015


Terrible #earthquake in #Nepal. Just saved ourselves. Don't know how many killed. Roads are blocked already. pic.twitter.com/qsxITz0n1P
— Guna Raj Luitel (@gunaraj) April 25, 2015


Earthquake in the heart of Kolkata. Building in Kalighat shook #alert Serious seismic
— Derek O'Brien (@quizderek) April 25, 2015


That was a pretty scary, long earthquake, no? — Mihir Sharma (@mihirssharma) April 25, 2015


earthquake in rajasthan too..
— Fan Akshay (@SRKspartans) April 25, 2015

Post Comment


RelatedMajor earthquake hits off Taiwan coast as Japan lifts tsunami warning

















Must Read



5 killed in Suicide Attack near Kabul Diplomatic District


Dalit Women Paraded Naked, Thrashed by Villagers in UP


'Innocence of Muslims' Can be Shown on YouTube: US Court


Cambodia: Truck Collides with Tourist Bus, 21 Killed


Colombia: Landslide Buries Sleeping Residents, 61 Dead



















IBTIMES TV


Mute
Unmute

Play

Burundi: 100,000 flee violence after attempted coup













Photo Gallery






Superstar Rajinikanth to attend the wedding of Mohan Babu's son Manchu Manoj





Cannes 2015: Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in Maroon at Jazbaa Launch





Allari Naresh Marriage Invitation







Most Popular
Most Shared










The country has introduced the new Valley Fault System Atlas, a tool that will ensure Metro Manila is prepared for the "big one".

Philippines Braces for 7.2 Magnitude Earthquake in Metro Manila










Karnataka PUC results 2015 will be declared at 11 am on Monday.

Karnataka 2nd PUC Results 2015 Announced: Where to Check Class 12 Board Scores (Results) Online










The Karnataka Second PUC (Pre-University Certificate) results were announced on 18 May, at 12 pm.

Karnataka 2nd (Second) PUC Results Announced: 60.54% Pass in Karnataka; Details of Supplementary Exam, Revaluation, Photocopying Answer Sheets










Students can also get UP board results 2015 on their mobile phones.

Uttar Pradesh Class 10 and Class 12 Board Results Announced; Where to Check UP Results 2015 Online













A UN envoy has also revealed that Isis would strip women naked before selling them in its slave markets.

Isis Forcing Yazidi Women to Undergo Surgery to Restore Virginity: UN official









A fracture zone runs just 4.5 km beneath the center of Kolkata.

Kolkata Moving Closer to Dooms Day; Massive Earthquake Likely in Future: Experts









South Koreas National Intelligence Service had claimed on Wednesday that the 66-year-old chief was publicly executed.

North Koreas Executed Defence Chief Hyon Yong Chol Appears on TV; Doubts Arise Over South Koreas Claim









Yeh Hai Mohabbatein Actresses Divyanka Tripathi, Anita Hassanandani have the cutest photos with onscreen daughter Ruhanika Dhawan

Happy Mothers Day 2015: Yeh Hai Mohabbatein Actresses Divyanka, Anitas Cute Photos with Onscreen Daughter Ruhanika















 
						                            READ MORE	                         
					








Mother of reporter US reporter Austin Tice urges government help







Recording studio offers cancer patients a chance a musical legacy







Anti-Submarine Warfare Ship Kavaratti Launched in Kolkata







5 Killed in Suicide Attack near Diplomatic District in Central Kabul: Reports




















													OTHER NEWS											



SpiceJet  Offers Discounts On Completion of Ten Years; to Raise ₹900 Crore
'Yes, I have Gained Weight,' Kylie Jenner Tells Body-Shamers after Uploading Swimsuit Picture
What Special Advice Did Prince Harry Give to Princess Charlotte?
Karthi and Nagarjuna to Team up for Anushka Shetty's 'Size Zero'?
Jack Gleeson Turns 23; Best Conversations Between Joffrey, Tyrion in 'Game of Thrones'
Of Mortal Kombat X, Projectiles and Old Ladies [VIDEO]
'Yeh Hai Mohabbatein': Subbu and Sujata to Ruin Ishita-Raman's Happy Life?
Rajinikanth Not Interested in 'Bhaskar The Rascal' Remake?
Trisha-Rana Daggubati Friends Again at Manchu Manoj's Sangeet Ceremony?
Android 5.0 Lollipop Firmware for T-Mobile Sony Xperia Z3, Z1s Models Enters Testing Phase; Update Release Imminent

























 





Tweet












Home
Business
Technology
Sports
Entertainment
Life & Style
Photos





About us

Advertise with us
Brand


Terms of service
Privacy
Permission
Syndication
Contact


Editions:
Australia

China

India
Italy

Japan

U.K.
U.S.





© Copyright 2015 International Business Times, India Edition All Rights Reserved.

Facebook
Twitter

Google Plus
RSS



 




























