Nepal earthquake triggers avalanches in Mount Everest
Nepal earthquake triggers avalanches in Mount Everest


UK EDITIONAUSTRALIA EDITIONCHINA EDITIONINDIA EDITIONITALY EDITIONJAPAN EDITIONU.K. EDITIONU.S. EDITIONTUESDAY, 19TH MAY, 2015Sign inFacebookTwitterGoogle PlusRSSSearchInternational Business Times UK 



International Business Times UK

 


News
World
Business
Politics
Technology
Science
Sport
Entertainment
Opinion
Video






 




Society

Earthquake
Pakistan






Nepal earthquake triggers avalanches in Mount Everest





By 
Vasudevan Sridharan


April 25, 2015 08:01 BST















Nepalese rescue members and onlookers gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in KathmanduPRAKASH MATHEMA/AFP/Getty Images 
A 7.9 magnitude earthquake has hit Nepal triggering tremors in several cities in neighbouring India.
The powerful quake is believed to have caused avalanches in Mount Everest although the extent of the catastrophe remains to be seen.
Reuters reported that 50 people are trapped in a 19th century tower in Kathmandu that was wrecked in the quake.
Images on social media showed many collapsed buildings in the Nepalese capital. Initially, the magnitude of the earthquake was measured as 7.5 but was later revised.
Nepalese rescue members move the body of a victim from the collapsed Darahara Tower in KathmanduPRAKASH MATHEMA/AFP/Getty Images
Many cities and towns including capital New Delhi in northern India experienced the tremors. No casualties have been reported as yet. Television images showed people running out of their buildings in several Indian cities.
J L Gautam, Head Operations Seismology of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), said: "Earthquake of magnitude 7.5 occurred today (25 April) at 11.41 am between latitude 28.1 North and longitude 84.6 east. The epicentre was located in Nepal," an IMD statement said.
Even some far-off cities in Pakistan have reported feeling the effects of the quake.
The quake's depth was about 3kms which is considered as shallow. Usually, earthquakes which occur closer to the surface cause more damage than the ones that occur deeper.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reached out to Nepalese President Ram Baran Yadav and promised help.
"We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home & in Nepal," wrote Modi on Twitter. 









 Comments 





 Recommend 




 Share 










Recommend
Share
Recommend
Recommend
Share
Share
Recommend
Share








YOU MIGHT LIKE THISSponsored Content by Taboola














TRENDING ARTICLES AND OFFERSAdvertising provided by Adblade

















IBT Video





Mother of reporter US reporter Austin Tice urges government help





Why advertise with us



Columnists




Christine Armstrong
“London Underground is commuters' moment of calm that tourists must not disturb







Why advertise with us




                                                                    READ MORE                                                      
                            






Hatton Garden robbery: 7 men arrested after raid by 200 officers in north London and Kent
Suspects aged between 48 and 76 were arrested.





Jewish student investigating German far-right killed in 'constructed' car crash
Foul play in case of Jeremiah Duggan found dead by motorway in 2003.





'Ghost ship' carrying 350 starving Rohingya Muslims vanishes
Wooden fishing boat has gone missing on the way to Indonesia's Aceh.





China's Jiayang Railway: World's last passenger steam train service
Kevin Frayer photographs a steam train where your fellow passengers may include poultry and pigs.





Defensive meat eaters 'more tolerant of inequality'
Omnivores defend eating meat with four N's - natural, necessary, normal and nice





Designer drug Flakka makes people have sex with trees
New narcotic taking hold in USA is most addictive known to man.





Rosetta discovers Stonehenge-style standing stones on Comet 67P
ESA scientists baffled at three large "balancing boulders" on 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko.





Scary drought islands popping up in Lake Powell
Don't even ask about Lake Mead





California call girl Alix Tichelman pleads guilty in heroin death of Google exec Forrest Hayes
High-end prostitute will serve three years of a six-year jail sentence.





New York City toddler Greta Greene dies after she's struck by falling bricks
Two-year-old hit by crumbling windowsill as she played outside with her grandmother





Six Chinese nationals charged with economic espionage by US authorities
The six are accused of stealing technology for mobile phones often used in military systems.





Why advertise with us

 














Home
World
Business
Politics
Technology
Science
Sport
Entertainment
Opinion
Video







About us
Leadership
Meet the team
Advertise with us
Brand
Terms of service
Privacy
Permission
Syndication
Contact


Editions:
Australia
China
India
Italy
Japan
U.K.
U.S.







© Copyright 2015 IBTimes Co., Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google Plus
RSS




 











 


















