
	Typhoon Hagupit strikes Philippines - Asia-Pacific - Al Jazeera English


	Typhoon Hagupit strikes Philippines - Asia-Pacific - Al Jazeera English


















































News
Shows
In Depth
Opinion
Human Rights
Video
Blogs
Sport

Investigations
Weather
Watch Live











Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Central & South Asia
Europe
Middle East




Inside Story
Witness
Listening Post
People & Power
101 East
The Stream
More




Focus
Features
In Pictures
Interactive
Spotlight




Football
Cricket
Tennis
Formula One
Golf
US Sports
Features
More




 




 




 




 




 




Counting the Cost
News




 




This month on Al Jazeera
















 












Asia-Pacific










                    Typhoon Hagupit strikes Philippines
                
















Storm weakens while claiming lives, destroying homes and flooding coastal communities in central and eastern provinces.





                            Last updated: 07 Dec 2014 20:40






































Typhoon Hagupit has killed at least three people, destroyed homes and and flooded coastal communities across the eastern and central Philippines, affecting millions of people.
The storm moved in from the Pacific Ocean and struck remote fishing communities on Samar island on Saturday night, but weakened from 210km to 165km an hour as it continued its path through the country on Sunday.
The wind strength made Hagupit the most powerful storm to hit the Philippines this year, exceeding a typhoon in July that killed more than 100 people.












Weather forecast on Typhoon Hagupit





In a span of just 24 hours, the storm brought 396mm of rain, which is equivalent to half a month of precipitation.
Two people, including a baby girl, died of hypothermia in central Iloilo province at the height of the typhoon, officials said.
Another person died after being hit by a falling tree in the eastern town of Dolores, where the typhoon first made landfall, according to Mar Roxas, interior secretary.
Two women were injured when the tricycle taxi they were riding was struck by a falling tree in central Negros Oriental province.
"Tin roofs are flying off, trees are falling and there is some flooding," Stephany Uy-Tan, the mayor of Catbalogan, a major city on Samar, told AFP news agency.
According to reports from news agencies and local media, close to a million people had fled to shelters in areas along the path of the typhoon.
So far, the provinces of Albay, Camarines Sur and Masbate have declared emergency.
Al Jazeera's Andrew Thomas, reporting from the capital Manila, said that the storm had made another landfall in the central island of Masbate, but had slightly weakened as it moved northwest.
Witnesses in Masbate told him that roads had been blocked from typhoon debris, making it difficult to deliver food packages to evacuees.
Lessons of Haiyan
In a statement to Al Jazeera, the UN office in Manila said the humanitarian needs in the Philippines would not be fully known until Hagupit passed over.
Fearful of a repeat of last year when Supertyphoon Haiyan claimed more than 7,350 lives, the government launched a massive evacuation effort to provide shelter to people in the path of Hagupit.
"The government is absolutely determined to do this better," Al Jazeera's Thomas said.




Notes from the field



The storm is very powerful right now in the province of Albay. Aside from the strong winds, there's also heavy rain, and the concern right now is the flooding.
 While the wind may not be as strong compared to Haiyan 13 months ago, the storm is slow moving.
So far, there are zero casualties in in Albay, according to Governor Joey Salcedo, who spoke to Al Jazeera.
Meanwhile, at one evacuation centre in Albay, at least a thousand people, mostly women and children, are packed in a government building with limited facilities. Evacuees, some of them with infants, are sitting on cardboard boxes and are camped in hallways and staircases.
Scott Heidler reporting from Albay Province at 0500 GMT Sunday






Hagupit was forecast to take days to cut across the Philippines, passing over mostly poor central regions, while also bringing heavy rain to densely populated Manila, which is slightly to the north.
Al Jazeera's Senior Weather Presenter Steff Gaulter said that as of 0700 GMT on Sunday, Hagupit was tracking westwards.
"Unfortunately the storm is moving very slowly and is not expected to clear the Philippines until 18 GMT on Monday," she said.
"This means that the storm will be over the country for a prolonged period and this will exacerbate the flooding problems."
Tens of millions of people live in Hagupit's path, including those in the central Philippines who are still struggling to recover from the devastation of Haiyan, which hit 13 months ago.
As day broke on Sunday, many areas across the eastern Philippines were uncontactable and it was impossible to know how badly they were damaged, Gwendolyn Pang, Red Cross secretary-general, said.
In those that were reachable, residents and officials reported terrifying winds and waves that destroyed homes, although with most people in evacuation centres there were hopes casualties would be few.
In Tacloban, one of the cities worst-hit by Haiyan, palm-thatch temporary houses built by aid agencies for survivors of last year's typhoon had been torn apart, Jerry Yaokasin, Tacloban's vice mayor, said.
There was no repeat of the storm surges that did the most damage during Haiyan, known locally as Yolanda.
"There is a collective sigh of relief. The initial assessment is that there are no casualties. We were better prepared after Yolanda, up to 50,000 people were packed in evacuation centres," he said.
The Philippines endures about 20 major storms a year which, along with regular earthquakes and volcano eruptions, make it one of the world's most disaster-plagued countries.






A man holds on to a pole in Legazpi in Albay province [AP]





892










                    Source:
                

                    
                    Al Jazeera and agencies
                






































Topics in this article

People
Jerry Yaokasin
Andrew Thomas
Stephany Uy-Tan
Gwendolyn Pang


Country
Philippines


City
Catbalogan
Tacloban
Manila


Organisation
AFP
Red Cross



































                Featured on Al Jazeera










Q&A: German journalist on surviving ISIL 




        Al Jazeera spoke to Jurgen Todenhofer who embedded with ISIL fighters - and lived to tell about it.
    


















Thieves fry Kenya's power grid for fast food




        Vandals smash electrical transformers to steal viscous fluid that's later sold as cooking oil for roadside stalls.
    


















After jail, Pussy Riot focuses on prisons




        Russian feminist rockers fight system holding 700,000 - the world's largest per capita prison population after the US.
    


















Mexicans fight back over their missing 




        Baja California - with its own grim history of disappeared people - finds a voice in the fight against violence.
    























Content on this website is for general information purposes only. 

Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect 

liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and global license for no consideration to 

use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in accordance with Community 

Rules & Guidelines and Terms and 

Conditions.





Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.












 








            Top News Accordion
        







Top News







Two suspects in Paris attack named 





Car bomb rips through crowd in Yemeni capital





FBI chief 'confident' North Korea hacked Sony





Sri Lanka votes in tight presidential poll





Report reaffirms Syria chemical weapons use  






















            News
        







Asia-Pacific






FBI chief 'confident' North Korea hacked Sony





Tail of crashed AirAsia flight found





S Korea activists launch anti-North balloons





South Korea party vows to fight dissolution





Bad weather forces halt to AirAsia jet search 






















            What's Hot
        





What's Hot



Viewed


Discussed


7 Days













                                Two suspects in Paris attack named
                            






                                What's behind anti-Islam protests in Europe?
                            






                                Deadly attack on satirical magazine in Paris
                            






                                Who is a German?  
                            






                                In Pictures: I am Charlie
                            






                                Torture and death for Uzbek Muslims in jail
                            






                                Sri Lanka votes in tight presidential poll
                            






                                Marking the end of Pol Pot's rule in Cambodia
                            






                                Opioid wars
                            






                                Q&A: German journalist on surviving ISIL 
                            



















{Title}













                        Deadly attack on satirical magazine in Paris
                    






                        Israel freezes Palestinian tax funds
                    






                        Palestinians submit application to join ICC
                    






                        Two suspects in Paris attack named
                    






                        German anti-Islam rally hits record numbers
                    






                        Palestinian statehood: a lost cause?
                    






                        What does the US really want for Palestine?
                    






                        Israel eyes more punitive measures
                    






                        UN chief: Palestine to join ICC on April 1
                    






                        Abbas to renew bid for Palestinian statehood
                    















                                'ISIL is losing': Iraqis optimistic for 2015
                            






                                Iraqi Kurds recapture key village from ISIL
                            






                                Tomb of Pharaoh's unknown queen discovered
                            






                                German anti-Islam rally hits record numbers
                            






                                Swedish mosque 'love bombed' after attacks
                            






                                Will Muhammadu Buhari be Nigeria's next president?
                            






                                What does the US really want for Palestine?
                            






                                Saudi border guards killed in attack
                            






                                NATO's nuclear relapse
                            






                                Bodies recovered from AirAsia crash site
                            



















{Title}





















 



  







            Featured
        














Cuba US


            Decades ago Cuba gave asylum to dozens on the run - mostly African-Americans - and now the US wants them back.
        
















Russia leeches


            Grown on the world's largest leech farm, slimy parasites treat a host of ailments, taking a bite out of health problems.
        
















Ethiopia business


            Low wages have attracted foreign players to the poor African country, but labourers are hoping for better salaries.
        
















Taiwan Muslims


            Taiwan's small Muslim minority tries to redefine its identity as a new wave of migration reshapes Taiwanese society.
        
















Afghan security


            As NATO moves on, ordinary Afghans fear for their lives and livelihoods amid increasing Taliban attacks. 
        

















            Opinion
        












Who is a German?  
Jan Douwe Keulen














The empty threat of Greece leaving the euro
Menelaos Tzafalias














North Korea's cyber-gap  
Andrei Lankov














Lebanon has just done the unthinkable
John Bell














Let the Iraqi Army have its day
Michael Knights














The fantasy of an Iran-US partnership
Seyed Mohammad Marandi 














Why the GCC's hands are tied over Yemen
Sharif Nashashibi














Saudi's bold political gambit
Ibrahim Al-Marashi














The Iranian opportunity
Fatima Ahmad Alsmadi














Europe's fear of Syria's ghost boats
James Denselow
















 



















Al Jazeera
Watch Live
Video
Podcasts
RSS
Mobile
Follow on Twitter






News
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Central & South Asia
Europe
Middle East
Sport




In Depth
Opinion
Features
Spotlight
In Pictures
Blogs
Interactive




Shows
The Stream
Witness
Inside Story
Inside Story Americas
Listening Post
People & Power
Fault Lines
Head to Head




Earthrise
101 East
Counting The Cost
Talk to Al Jazeera
Empire
The Cure
Al Jazeera World
Lifelines
Viewfinder
reView




Watch
Live
On Demand
Podcasts
Mobile
Broadcast Schedule
Weather
Hotel/Partners
Search




More
About Us
Licensing footage
Press Office
Work for us
Al Jazeera America
Al Jazeera Turk
AJ Center for Studies
AJ Balkans
Investigations
Community Rules
Terms & Conditions





































































