Super typhoon Haiyan so powerful it hurled a 198-ton boulder up Phillippines beach | Daily Mail Online
Super typhoon Haiyan so powerful it hurled a 198-ton boulder up Phillippines beach | Daily Mail Online



























 













 Home




 U.K.




 News




 Sports




 U.S. Showbiz




 Australia




 Femail




 Health



 
 

Science




 Money




 Video




 Travel




 Columnists







Science Home


Pictures


Gadgets Gifts and Toys Store



My Profile
Logout



Login













Feedback








DailyMail






 






 show ad

























	96
      
shares












Teenage suspect 'arrested after handing himself into police' over Paris magazine massacre that left 12 dead - as anti-terror unit raids building in hunt for two brothers 'trained in Yemen as assassins'





Je suis Charlie! The cry of defiance: Vast crowds rally across the world to condemn the gun massacre as Francoise Hollande declares tomorrow a day of mourning





They shouted out names... then fired: Minute by minute, how the horror unfolded in magazine newsroom





New York City steps up security for French Consulate and media organizations after Paris terror attack





They stood defiantly for freedom of speech... and paid the highest price: Slain cartoonists who were called out by name and slaughtered for 'insulting Prophet'





Charlie Hebdo cartoonist reveals terrorists threatened to murder her toddler unless she let them in - how she cowered with child under desk as massacre took place





'Religion deserves our fearless disrespect': Salman Rushdie condemns Charlie Hebdo attack as a sign of the 'deadly mutation in the heart of Islam' 





'We have the right to make dumb jokes': Tina Fey defends free speech in wake of Charlie Hebdo massacre





Obama condemns 'cowardly evil' attack on French newspaper two years after the White House slammed the publication for its caricatures





Is this the answer to doctors' prayers? Super-antibiotic that could wipe out diseases from MRSA to TB is hailed as a 'game-changer' by scientists 





Veterans' clinic shooter named as ex-employee and Iraq veteran who had verbally threatened his victim before at a nearby supermarket





How women perfect their hairstyle at 32 but will have tried 50 different styles before finally deciding which suits them best 





What happens if your wife always says YES to sex? Three brave couples take part in a unique and revealing experiment





'It's no fun without her': Devoted husband, 88, said final goodbye to wife dying after 69 years of marriage - then returned to his room and pulled out all his IV tubes so he could join her





How man's best friend followed us to the Americas: Researchers say dogs may have first migrated 10,000 years ago, thousands of years after the first human migrants





Pictured: Prince Andrew surrounded by topless women on Thai holiday with pedophile Epstein as friend says Duke 'has always been a t***s and bums man'





Andrew's sex abuser pal left a pregnant writer in fear: Journalist probing Epstein's sex life tells how he 'intimidated' her 





New lives of the girls in Andrew sex claim row: Epstein's aides who refused to testify are now a pilot and a designer





'Prince Andrew did NOT have sex with underage girls': Playboy model 'who dated Duke' attacks sex slave claims and says 'there's not an ounce of truth' to it





Lawyers for Prince Andrew accuser Virginia Roberts COUNTER-SUE Harvard law professor for defamation after he accused them of 'deliberate misconduct' 





120 million people warned they could get frostbite in MINUTES as 'dangerously cold air' descends on Northeast





Four people arrested after a meth lab and a bucket of human waste were found in a home with no running water where three young children had been living





Aaron Hernandez's solemn fiancee appears in court to determine if she will receive immunity in football star's murder case





Girlfriend, 22, dies in car crash after her boyfriend bought an engagement ring so he could propose on Valentine's Day




Previous
Next








Super typhoon Haiyan was so powerful it hurled a boulder bigger than a BLUE WHALE up a beach, scientists claim
Boulder was rolled 150 feet up a beach in south east Samar in PhilippinesGiant rock weighed around 198 tons,  more than 26 African elephantsScientists believe super typhoon Haiyan created a prolonged 'tsunami-like' wave that lasted for up to a minute and dislodged giant bouldersGeologists have found storm tore up several other massive boulders  By

Richard Gray for MailOnline


Published:
  09:07 EST, 18 December 2014

 | 
Updated:
  04:44 EST, 19 December 2014





















96
shares

 
          15
View  comments



Super typhoon Haiyan, which hit the Philippines with winds of up to 195 mph, was so powerful that it rolled a boulder weighing more than 26 adult male African elephants up a beach for 150 feet.It is the largest rock to be moved by a storm ever recorded, according to scientists who examined huge piles of debris deposited by the typhoon in the island of Samar in 2013.Haiyan, which is one of the most powerful tropical cyclones on record, killed more than 6,000 people, devastated more than a million homes and caused widespread destruction as it swept across the Philippines in November last year.Scroll down for video   
 Typhoon Haiyan was so powerful it created Tsunami-like waves that swept this 198 ton boulder up a beachMore than 16 million people were affected as storm surges of nearly 23 feet (7 metres) and waves of 16 feet (5 metres) smashed the coastline.Now researchers from the University of Cologne and the University of the Philippines, said the category five storm was so powerful that the waves it created dislodged some of the most massive boulders to be recorded.


RELATED ARTICLES

Previous
1
Next






Race against time to save the drowned towns: Rescuers battle...



Heartbreaking before and after photos show how Typhoon...





Share this article
Share



The largest weighed, around 198 ton (180 tonnes) and was rolled 150 feet (45 metres) up a slope of a beach on the south east coast of Samar.Measuring more than 29.5 feet long (9 metres) and 14.7 feet wide (4.5 metres), it was almost the same size as the largest animal on the planet, a blue whale.Dr Max Engel and his colleagues from the University of Cologne used satellite images taken before and after the typhoon to identify areas where boulders may have moved.They found another boulder weighing around 77 tons (70 tonnes) was thrown 150 feet by the storm surge while a 25.9 ton (23.5 tonnes ) boulder was torn from a cliff face and carried almost 20 feet above level.Several other boulders of around 18.7 tons (17 tonnes) were carried so far that they were finally dropped inland at heights of around 40 feet above sea level.The researchers found distinctive marks on the rock that showed they had been moved by the storm, including downward facing rock pools and patches of grass on the bottom sides of the boulder.  
 The researchers discovered several large boulders had been carried up the beach by the storm waves  
  The storm was so powerful that sea water carried huge quantities of debris inland as it surged up the coast  
 Eastern Samar in central Philipinnes were among the most badly hit by typhoon Haiyan in November 2013




New video shows Philippines hit by typhoon Haiyan













Dr Engel, who presented the findings at the fall meeting of the American Geophysical Union, said that it appeared the typhoon created protracted tsunami-like waves that pushed the enormous rocks up the beach.In a paper titled 'Storm surge of super typhoon Haiyan on Samar moved the largest boulder ever documented for a recent storm', he said: 'Downward-facing rock pools, grass patches, living barnacles, roots and soil staining on exposed former bottom sides, and fresh wood jammed under the rocks provide unambiguous evidence for sub-recent transport and overturning.'We conclude that the geological legacy of Haiyan calls for a careful reconsideration of possible storm surge transport where boulders, based on their size, previously associated with tsunami impacts and storms, have been ruled out to be the cause.'He added: 'We currently think that storm surge was not the main process shifting the boulders but another long-wave phenomenon that is evolving from groups of extremely high and steep regular storm waves when interacting with the coral reef.'This phenomenon obviously caused a tens of seconds to minute-long one-directional high-velocity flow in the area capable of transporting the giant boulders.'The wave phenomenon has characteristics of a tsunami, but it is by no means a tsunami.' Scientists from the Nanyang Technological University in Singapore also found Haiyan ripped rocks from reefs that line the coastline of Samar.They found a 99 ton (90 tonnes) boulder and several others weighing more than 66 tons (60 tonnes) had been dislodged from reef platforms close to Hernani on the Pacific coast of eastern Samar. Adam Switzer, who lead the Nanyang team, said: 'The large clasts on the Hernani coast provide further evidence that storm waves are capable of quarrying and transporting very large clasts.'  
 The boulders were found on the south east coast of Samar, which was badly hit by Typhoon Haiyan in 2013  
 The boulder is the biggest rock proven to have been moved by waves during a storm surge or tsunami  
 Super typhoon Haiyan was a category five storm and is one of the most powerful tropical cyclones on record  
 Winds of 145mph created waves that measured up to 16 feet as typhoon Haiyan swept across the Philippines 


Share or comment on this article

























96shares














MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS

Previous
1
2
3
Next

 



Terrifying video shows trained terrorists gunning down...





Adorable moment twin babies lock eyes for the first time





It's pug vs baby in power struggle over dog bed





Harrowing Instagram video captures audio of gunfire in Paris





Two best friends: Monkey and baby in adorable friendship





Cute Siberian Husky scared of talking toy Furby





Kai the abandoned dog settles in at rehoming centre





Terrifying sounds of gunshots from rooftop above Paris...





Has Bigfoot been caught on camera in the Maine forest?





Moment off-duty cop accidentally shoots himself in front of...





Meet 23-year-old Augusto Deoliveira the magical dog trainer





Biden compliments Orrin Hatch's granddaughter on her looks























Teenage suspect 'arrested after handing himself into police'...





Miss BumBum contestant and Brazilian TV presenter reveals...





Je suis Charlie! The cry of defiance: Vast crowds rally...





A message from 'His Excellency' Sam Adams and 'The Most...





They stood defiantly for freedom of speech... and paid the...





Father arrested for hosting drunken Playboy Mansion-themed...





Charlie Hebdo cartoonist reveals terrorists threatened to...





'We warned them': Shocking moment angry Mexican mob tired of...





Pictured: Prince Andrew surrounded by topless women on Thai...





Death of a hero live on their mobile phones: Passersby...





Relatives of eight-year-old girl 'who died as her father...





Mother's shock as her baby girl is born with two front teeth




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
Next

●
●
●


 












Comments (15)

                                	Share what you think
                                







Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated




 View all



The comments below have not been moderated.





                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.


Who is this week's top commenter?
Find out now







More top stories










Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search





















Like
DailyMail




Follow
MailOnline




Follow
DailyMail




+1
DailyMail









 
 
Today's headlines


 
 
Most Read









Relax under the two suns of Kepler 16b and skydive in the superstrong gravity of HD 40307g: Nasa reveals...





Do these photos of sediment on Mars prove life once existed on the red planet? Similar structures are formed...





Beware the drones? The skies are about to get a lot busier with the buzz of mini-copters delivering food and...





Forget asteroids, mammoths were killed off by HUMANS: Charred debris was made by man-made fires and not a...





Smarter than the average computer: Intel shows off SmartSense system that can do everything from make your...





2015 WILL be like Back to the Future: Nike confirms it will sell Marty McFly's self-tying power lace...





The smart clothes that could beat the big freeze: Scientists reveal nanowire that could be used to give...





Music IS a universal language: Songs from films make people from completely different cultures feel...





Forget the selfie stick, say hello to the BELFIE stick





How man’s best friend followed us to the Americas: Researchers say dogs may have first migrated 10,000 years...





Beethoven’s music really WAS heartfelt: Researchers say he composed some of the greatest masterpieces of all...





Where did all the stars go? Astronomers reveal stunning image of giant ‘hole in the sky’ as mysterious dark...





Are antioxidants a waste of money? Study says eating expensive 'superfoods' or taking supplements WON'T help...





Addicted to posting selfies? Then you're probably selfish and may even be a psychopath, claims study





Your fate really COULD be written in the stars: People born when the sun is in a period of calm live 5 years...





MORE HEADLINES







 
            Mystery of the glowing orb: Bizarre fireball that splits in two could be a meteorite burning up in Earth's atmosphere
            



 
            Dinosaur death trap in Utah containing SIX raptors that suggests they hunted in packs
            



 
            Has Genghis Khan's tomb beeen spotted from SPACE? Online 'explorers' narrow down the location of the grave using satellite images 
            



 
            'Tomb' of Osiris discovered: Blackened structure was built to represent Egyptian god of death's mythical resting place
            



 
            LG launches a fridge WITHIN a fridge: Innovative design means you can hunt for snacks without wasting energy
            



 
            Autopsy on 700-year-old mummy solves  14th Century murder mystery - Italian lord was POISONED
            



 
            Eight planets found that could support life - and two are the most Earth-like worlds ever discovered
            



 
            CES, where science fiction becomes FACT: Brainwave bands, Knight Rider-style cars and helmets inspired by Iron Man unveiled
            



 
            Your fate really COULD be written in the stars: People born when the sun is in a period of calm live 5 years longer, claims study
            



 
            Addicted to posting selfies? Then you're probably selfish and may even be a psychopath, claims study
            



 
            Forget asteroids, mammoths were killed off by HUMANS: Charred debris was made by man-made fires and not a cosmic impact, scientists claim
            



 
            One port to rule them all: Apple planning radical redesign of its MacBook Air to make it even smaller
            



 
            The superstitions of space travel revealed: Fear of the number 13, peeing on tyres and tapping Snoopy's nose among bizarre rituals
            



 
            Do these photos of sediment on Mars prove life once existed on the red planet? Similar structures are formed by microbes on Earth
            



 
            A 50s vision of the 'phone of tomorrow' ... and it's pretty accurate! Engineer foresaw features including Siri, FaceTime in a pocket-sized device
            


MOST READ IN DETAIL











 
 
DON'T MISS







          'I don't care if you love me or hate me!' Defiant 'Wicked Witch' Katie Hopkins is booed as she becomes first contestant to enter the CBB house
          









          Meet the contestants: It's battle of the blondes as Patsy Kensit, Alicia Douvall and Katie Hopkins join a diverse line-up for Celebrity Big Brother 2015
          









          'We are crazy!' Kris and Kylie Jenner enjoy some mother-daughter bonding over rollercoasters and cotton candy in new Instagram selfies
          









          All that rehearsing paid off! Strictly Come Dancing champion Caroline Flack shows off incredible beach body in tiny striped bikini
          
          Stunner in Jamaica
        








          Jodie bikini watch: Marsh gives her fans an eyeful with some seriously sexy selfies on Barbados beach holiday
          
          Never gets bored of flaunting her assets
        













          Alicia Douvall and her rumoured former flame Calum Best come face-to-face in the Celebrity Big Brother house
          
          Going to be fireworks
        








          Chloe Goodman and Alexander O'Neal become first stars to face CBB eviction... as Katie Hopkins is 'cursed with kindness' and ordered to be 'sweet'
          









          Celebrity Big Brother presenter Emma Willis suffers embarrassing wardrobe malfunction as she flashes her nipple in revealing top 
          
          Not a great start
        








          Glamour models Cami Li and Chloe Goodman compete for attention as they enter the Celebrity Big Brother house in cleavage baring plunging dresses 
          









          Far from Blunt! Emily cuts a sharp figure in white stud embellished asymmetrical dress at London premiere of Into The Woods
          
          Plays baker's wife
        











          Life's a beach! Poppy Delevingne shows off her midriff as she enjoys a day in the sun with husband James Cook
          
          The new designer was in Miami
        








          SPOILER ALERT: Nasty Nick consoles his devastated son Charlie Cotton after he receives worrying news about wife Ronnie in EastEnders
          









          Inside Miley Cyrus' 'drug den': Singer surrounded by cannabis, a rolled up bank note and a vial of white powder at recording studio 
          









          'Eyes, neck, everything!': Tina Malone reveals plastic surgery plans... as she supports Stephen Fry's engagement to a younger man
          









          Wonderful in winter white! Anna Faris, Ellen DeGeneres and Ginnifer Goodwin sparkle in the snowy color as they hit the red carpet at the 2015 People's Choice Awards
          









          'I married Prince Charming!' Ginnifer Goodwin covers up in white at the People's Choice Awards
          
          She ditched her fairytale Snow White costume
        








          Melissa McCarthy shows off 45lbs weight loss in fitted pantsuit as she's named Favorite Comedic Movie Actress at People's Choice Awards
          









          Iggy Azalea and Melissa McCarthy kick off the star-studded evening as they win big at the People's Choice Awards
          









          Hello boys! Bikini-clad Chloe Goodman gets Celebrity Big Brother fans hot under the collar as she displays toned physique... hours before entering the house
          









          'People can change!' Katie Price shares picture of flowers from cheating husband Kieran Hayler as she gushes about renewing their vows
          












          Something to tell us? Justin Timberlake's wife Jessica Biel reveals a large midsection as she leaves a business meeting in LA
          
          Married for two years
        








          'They are both over the moon': Benedict Cumberbatch and fiancée Sophie Hunter CONFIRM they are expecting their first child together
          









          'I love bleach!' Miley Cyrus shows off her platinum locks before going bowling with Patrick Schwarzenegger
          
          Pair were reunited
        








          Jennifer Lopez 'dating ex-boyfriend Casper Smart again' - just weeks after saying she's afraid to be alone in magazine interview
          









          'You are my angel of life!' Kate Hudson wishes son Ryder a happy birthday in gushing Instagram message as he turns 11
          
          She recently split
        








          She's a real handful! Cara Delevingne jokes around with a plastic doll's  hand
          
          The star was playing around with a creepy plastic doll's hand
        








          Trying to go unnoticed? Madonna flies under the radar with oversized hooded jacket as she arrives with her children in New York
          
          Entourage gave it away
        








          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Another one bites the dust! Prince Harry's first love to marry
          
          Laura Gerard Leigh is to wed financier Philip Kaye
        








          Sam Smith smoulders while boyfriend Jonathan Zeizel sticks out his tongue as they cosy up for sweet selfie on romantic break
          
          Just gone public 
        








          Meeting the world at less than a month old! Monaco's royal twins make first public appearance in the arms of their adoring parents
          
          What a cute pair
        








          'How about this version?' David Walliams photoshops himself into topless wife Lara Stone's steamy campaign with Justin Bieber
          









          When in Rome! Angelina Jolie indulges her daughters Zahara and Shiloh in a shopping spree accompanied by brother ahead of 'meeting with Pope Francis'
          









          Thigh and mighty! Confident Kelly Brook turns heads in tiny white dress in Los Angeles... after revealing new diet plans 
          
          Hardly a shy one
        








          Pippa Middleton ranks the world's 'very best' ski resorts for her latest Vanity Fair column - but has she actually visited them ALL?
          
          Keen skier
        








          James Corden has onscreen wife Emily Blunt in stitches before cosying up to real life spouse Julia Carey on Into The Woods premiere red carpet
          









          'It makes for a great picture!' Amanda Peet explains why she covers her 'porno boobs' with cabbage leaves on Ellen 
          
          Unique home remedy for post-baby pains
        








          The PECS factor: Simon Cowell goes shirtless on the beach in Barbados while Lauren Silverman shows her slim figure in black bikini and sheer crochet top
          









          'The benefits of having a stomach bug for three days': Luisa Zissman brags about her flat stomach as she posts a braless selfie
          
          Shameless posing
        








          'Happy Birthday Blue!' Beyoncé shares Instagram snap of a Frozen-themed ice sculpture as daughter turns three
          
          Tot who has everything
        








          Another day in paradise! Union J's Josh Cutherbert gets romantic on last hours in Barbados with model girlfriend Chloe Lloyd
          
          Looking loved up
        








          Clearly not suffering the January blues! Jude Law's ex-wife Sadie Frost literally jumps for joy on winter sun break in a daring two-piece
          
          Escaped the cold
        








          'It's 100,000 percent because I've a vagina!' Iggy Azalea on why she's criticised for being in hip-hop and denies a sex tape but says if she did it'd be 'completely f****** fine'
          









          'They're solid and see each other when they can': Jennifer Lawrence and Chris Martin giving romance another chance
          
          It's back on
        








          A slim Charlotte Crosby carries a cardboard cut-out of herself from before she lost two and a half stone... as her fitness DVD tops charts
          









          'I'll kill that girl': Angry Justin Bieber fans send death threats to married model Lara Stone following racy Calvin Klein advert
          
          Teen jealousy
        








          Angelina Jolie touches down in Rome with daughters Shiloh and Zahara... as she and Brad Pitt 'prepare to meet Pope Francis'
          
          Headed to Vatican City
        








          John Travolta to star as OJ Simpson's defense attorney Robert Shapiro in American Crime Story
          
          Show will chronicle the 1995  murder case
        








          Imran Khan set to officially announce he has married a former BBC weather girl
          
          Couple wed in secret  without his family's knowledge
        








          IDEO EXCLUSIVE: Mrs Robinson for a new generation? Jennifer Lopez gets steamy with handsome neighbour in The Boy Next Door movie trailer 
          









          Daddy's little girl! Hayden Panettiere's fiancé Wladimir Klitschko bonds with baby Kaya in new snap
          
          Posted the picture of the little cutie
        








          'I do not want to see her boobs hanging out': BBC receives 400 complaints after Rita Ora flaunts her chest in low-cut suit on The One Show
          









          Danniella Westbrook put her financial woes to one side as she reunites with on and off toyboy beau Tom Richards for a romantic beach stroll 
          
          Obviously on again...
        








          SPONSORED: Burgers, fish, chips and pulled pork... all high-protein, low-carb and UNDER 500 CALORIES: Just how did M&S create the easiest New Year diet ever?
          









          Sienna Miller to take over from Emma Stone as Sally Bowles for final six weeks of Broadway's Cabaret revival
          
          Opposite Alan Cumming
        








          'Small and simple': New details of Lara Bingle and Sam Worthington's rumoured wedding emerge including the VERY exclusive guest list
          









          Broadchurch star Olivia Colman tells of her fear that fans will get sick of watching her cry
          
          Was seen crying both in and outside of the courtroom
        








          No more Thor! Chris Hemsworth ditches his wavy blonde locks for a clean-cut cropped look at Blackhat media call  
          
          Certainly had heads turning
        








          Denise Welch dons large furry coat and baggy jeans as she covers after being slammed for 'unhealthy' weight loss
          
          Actress, 56, covered up 
        








          Tulisa Contostavlos ups the glamour in matching geometric separates and pink shearling coat as she leaves photo shoot
          









          Emma Stone enjoys romantic stroll with Andrew Garfield as she prepares to hand over her Cabaret role to Sienna Miller
          
          In chilly New York
        








          Stephen Fry's fiancé is banned from driving after being caught doing 101mph in Aston Martin as pair sped to literary festival 
          
          Fell foul of the law
        








          Curvy Kelly Brook unveiled as ambassador for Atkins diet as she wants to lose weight after a 'crazy' 2014 that didn't leave her time to 'focus on herself'
          









          From one soap to another: Former Hollyoaks star Gemma Atkinson to join cast of Emmerdale as the estranged daughter of Bob Hope
          









          It runs in the family! Lindsay Lohan shows where she got that famous pout as she poses for selfie with her grandmother
          
          A family affair
        








          'My dream puppies!' Paris Hilton 'spends $25K on two adorable Pomeranians and gives one to mom Kathy as an anniversary gift'
          
          She now has eight dogs
        








          Gigi Hadid leaves little to the imagination in sexy fashions while cavorting on a beach for Guess spring campaign 
          
          Calm down boys
        








          Guy Pearce versus Emoji: Watch acclaimed Hollywood actor recreate popular emoticons with hilarious results
          









          'He's loved every curve': Jessica Simpson reveals struggle for leaner body and how husband Eric appreciates her at any size
          









          Don't look down, Vince! Vaughn gets quite the eyeful as reality star Laura Govan suffers MAJOR wardrobe malfunction at Wedding Ringer premiere
          









          Shirtless Shia LaBeouf wears nude boxers to cage-fight with 12-year-old Dance Moms star in bizarre video for Sia's Elastic Heart
          









          Lily Allen appears more youthful than ever as she steps out make-up free while wearing bright red statement jumper and velvet skinny trousers
          









          Belated honeymoon? Newlyweds Eric and Lara Trump enjoy a romantic winter vacation in Uruguay two months after Miami wedding
          









          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: £1.5million-a-year James Corden tries to blag hotel deal for his sister
          
          Fishing for a discount
        








          Eddie Redmayne and his wife Hannah jet into LAX as their honeymoon takes a backseat to award season campaign 
          
          Inspired as Hawking
        








          'I was concerned for my health': Little House on the Prairie star Melissa Gilbert on her decision to permanently remove her breast implants
          









          'I love you so much': Donnie Wahlberg tears up when seeing Jenny McCarthy walk down aisle during wedding rehearsal in promo for new reality show
          









          'I love it!' Reese Witherspoon reveals a toddler, tween and teen can be 'interesting' while still maintaining a busy acting career
          
          She's getting Oscar buzz 
        








          'I'm too tired to even think about rebellion': Sienna Miller says growing up and motherhood has stopped her 'misbehaving'
          









          Snooki denies husband Jionni LaValle cheated on her with Florida woman before their November 29 wedding
          
          Claim by 26-year-old  Alexa Waldman
        








          It will be a boy! Terrence Howard reveals he is expecting a son with pregnant wife Miranda
          
          He is set to become a father for the fourth time
        








          'I don't know how to act': Channing Tatum admits he's still learning on the job ahead of hotly-anticipated Foxcatcher release
          
          Modest about his skills
        








          Carry me mommy! Bethenny Frankel bonds with her adorable daughter Bryn as they cuddle during a stroll through New York
          
          Little princess
        








          Giuliana Rancic shows off her slender figure in light grey backless dress as she leads the stars on the red carpet at the 2015 People's Choice Awards
          









          Cara Delevingne puts on a brave face after the devastating loss of her grandmother... as she steps out in tiny hot pants and black jacket in Beverly Hills
          









          Is there anything Alexa Chung can't do? Model showcases her impressive karaoke skills in new short film by Gia Coppola
          
          Sang Stevie Nicks hit
        








          Is Justin Bieber the worst Calvin Klein model ever? FEMAIL looks back at the actors and sports stars who've posed in pants for the fashion giant
          









          Charlize Theron and son Jackson go for a walk with the beloved pit bull who helped her cope with early days as a single mom
          
          Some family time
        








          Working off that Christmas excess! Coleen Rooney hits the gym in a chic all-black workout ensemble
          
          Hitting the gym while the kids are at school
        








          Tamzin Outhwaite steps out in chic khaki coat and skintight pants after discussing the details behind her divorce from ex-husband Tom Ellis
          









          We've been here before! Jodie Marsh  displays tanned curves in skimpy studded bikini as she posts more selfies from her endless holiday in Barbados
          









          Benedict Cumberbatch is back on Sherlock set with sidekick Martin Freeman after confirming he's set to become a father for the first time
          









          Rita Ora covers up in uncharacteristic baggy coat after coming under fire for revealing her cleavage during The One Show appearance
          
          She's not bothered
        








          Dazzling Angela Bassett, 56, looks half her age in suit and crop top to celebrate directorial debut Whitney (but late singer's family avoid the premeire)
          









          Heidi Klum displays her fantastic figure in a skimpy bikini while wading into the sea with a male friend... as she enjoys another day on the beach with toyboy
          









          The reinvention of Camilla: How a dash of charm and a LOT of charity work have turned the Duchess of Cornwall into one of our favourite royals 
          









          Healthy chicken and chips, peanut butter hot chocolate and guilt-free egg fried rice: Sam Faiers unveils virtuous menu plans she says are 'so easy to make'
          









          'They airbrushed Justin Bieber to the high heavens!': Tweeters accuse pop star of having his muscles Photoshopped in new Calvin Klein campaign
          









          Every street's a catwalk: Kendall Jenner rocks perfect off-duty model look in skintight leather trousers and heeled boots as she steps out for lunch
          









          EXCLUSIVE: Was Bill Cosby caught on camera assaulting an 18-year-old at the Playboy Mansion? Lawyer claims Hugh Hefner has cameras in his home
          









          Strictly star Ola Jordan posts 'cheeky' selfie from hospital bed... as she is replaced by Chloe Madeley on The Jump
          
          Suffering a serious leg injury during training
        








          'Up all night redoing my whole wardrobe with Kanye': Kim Kardashian's closet gets a makeover for 2015 as she's 'so ready for a new vision'
          









          Looking bow-tiful! Pregnant Charlotte Hawkins displays her baby bump in a magenta and fuchsia dress with pretty ribbon detail
          
          Colourful ensemble
        








          Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers and girlfriend join club's other stars and WAGs on a birthday night out
          
          Dinner for Martin Skrtel's 30th birthday
        








          Denise Van Outen trades her fail-safe glamour for ski jacket and jogging bottoms as she scrapes back her hair to run errands
          
          Looked glum
        








          EXCLUSIVE: Game Of Thrones star Maisie Williams reveals she was left 'emotionally hurt' by cruel internet bullies
          
          Plays Arya Stark 
        








          Emily Blunt rocks grey sweater mini dress as she promotes Into The Woods movie with on-screen husband James Corden 
          
          London premiere tonight
        








          Which country's style really is the sexiest?
          
          Are you bored of your regular look and want a New Year's update? Take some inspiration from further afield
        








          Pregnant Liv Tyler goes make-up free as she steps out with boyfriend Dave Gardner and their children amid rumours they are 'newly engaged'
          









          'I ripped myself!' Lady Antebellum's Charles Kelley reveals wardrobe blunder as his Dolce & Gabbana trousers split at People's Choice Awards
          









          Where Dubai that from? Gemma Merna hits the town in UAE in cleavage-baring white jumpsuit while Jennifer Metcalfe wows in maxi dress
          









          Star Wars and James Bond actor Khan Bonfils, 42, dies in stage rehearsal for new production of Dante's Inferno
          
          Died at the Craft Theatre 
        








          'I want to say a big thank you!' Beyoncé sends surprise video message to U.S. troops on New Year's Eve before On The Run screening
          









          That's how to get a strike! Tara Reid giggles hysterically as she goes bowling in her bra and jeans
          
          Is that within the alley rules?
        








          In bloom! Rosie Huntington Whiteley is just peachy as she models pretty pastel knits and a racy leather skirt for M&S
          
          Ready for spring
        








          Celebrity Big Brother's Calum Best and Chloe Goodman specially selected with hopes they'll 'hook up within hours of show's launch'
          
          Could be steamy
        








          Third time's a charm! Tina Fey and Amy Poehler keep it chic in little black dresses as they gear up to host the Golden Globes on Sunday
          









          Victoria's Secret model Kelly Gale shares behind-the-scenes snap displaying her INCREDIBLE stomach muscles and legs
          
          Incredible body
        








          Smitten Jenny McCarthy and Donnie Wahlberg's tour of love rolls on as they promote new reality show
          
          Newlyweds looking all loved up
        








          Shailene Woodley and Margot Robbie lead the nominations for 2015 BAFTA Rising Star Award... as British actor Jack O'Connell is also in the running
          









          A pricey escape! Three of Steve McQueen's prized motorcycles set to make more than $300,000 at auction
          
          Pricey purchase
        








          Here comes Chickadee! Honey Boo Boo's big sister Anna Cardwell shops her own reality show
          
          Star's series based on her little family
        








          Cara Santana looks effortlessly chic in a denim shirt and crisp white 50s-style skirt as she enjoys lunch date after returning from NYC break
          









          Zsa Zsa Gabor's husband attempts to make funeral arrangements for stepdaughter Francesca Hilton as her body goes unclaimed
          









          Dance Moms star Maddie Ziegler, 12, stars in another Sia video for Elastic Heart... but this time with Shia LaBeouf
          
          Actor appears to be naked in promo
        








          Another date with the work wife! Newlywed Eddie Redmayne co-ordinates with his on-screen partner Felicity Jones in her '60s cobalt mini at film screening
          









          A look to dye for! Amber Rose primps and bleaches her hair before hitting club dressed to the hilt
          
          Shared her beauty secrets
        








          Private jets, designer clothes and hanging out with the stars: As Beyonce and Jay Z's daughter Blue Ivy turns three, FEMAIL charts her privileged life so far
          









          Beyoncé beams in new holiday snaps from Cambodia... as she puts criticism over tiger cub picture behind her
          
          On family break in Southeast Asia
        








          ... after she is blasted by animal rights groups over photo of her petting a tiger cub with Jay Z and Blue Ivy in Thailand
          
          Got up close with the big cat in Asia
        






























 
 
 
 
GADGET REVIEWS



          Gadget review: Nexus 7 tablet - Premium quality at an affordable price
        



The Nexus 7 is a premium tablet which comes at a mid-range price. That's the main selling point, though it doesn't do justice to its sleek style and detailed screen.








      comments
    




 


          Headphones: Musical Fidelity EB-33
        



The Musical Fidelity EB-33 in-ear headphones are impressive. They offer a strong performance which more than matches their value - and look good too.








      comments
    




 


          Gadget of the week: Orbotix Sphero 2.0
        



The Sphero 2.0 is a modern Christmas present. In years past you would have had a remote-control racing car running on AA batteries.








      comments
    




 


          Gadget review: Snugs fitted earphones
        



Sound quality is normally the purpose of a headphones review - but not in the case of Snugs, because they can be used on any earphones.








      comments
    




 


          Gadget of the week: Waka Waka solar powered lamp
        



The Waka Waka lamp and phone charger is a useful camping tool and something that could be extremely useful in the developing world.








      comments
    




 


          Gadget review: Tivoli Radio Silenz noise cancelling headphones
        



The Tivoli Audio Radio Silenz headphones are light, comfortable and portable, which makes them good for travel. They feature stylish wood panels.








      comments
    




 


          Gadget of the week: Snapdragon 540 degree Photobooth
        



The Snapdragon Photobooth isn't a gadget you can buy, but it is the coolest thing we've seen this week - it's made up of 130 HTC smartphones around a spiral unit.








      comments
    






1 video
    




 


          Gadget review: Jawbone Mini Jambox
        



Fun. That's the first word that comes to mind when reviewing the Jawbone Mini Jambox. As you would expect from a product with mini in its name, it's small.








      comments
    




 


          Gadget of the week: Philips Wake-up Light can make the mornings easier
        



Nobody likes getting up in the morning. That's a fact. So spending money on anything that makes it less painful is probably a sound investment.








      comments
    




 


          Gadget review: Skullcandy Crusher Headphones
        



The Crusher does exactly what it says on the tin. Unleash an unrelenting torrent of deep bass through your eardrums. Be warned, these are not for the faint-hearted.








      comments
    




 


          Gadget review: Klipsch Image X7i in-ear headphones with 3-button control
        



The Klipsch X7i headphones are nearly perfect. Nearly. The sound is excellent - and in headphones, that's 90 per cent of the battle won. Just some blips hold them back.








      comments
    

























From the Makers of Candy Crush
Farm Heroes Saga, the #4 Game on iTunes. Play it now!



 more










Head Start to Home Cooked
Get Recipes



 more










































Next story



      A thumbs-up for mind-controlled robots: Advanced robotic hand can now pinch, scoop and grasp like never before
    







9 comments
    






2 videos
    










	SHARE PICTURE
      














Copy link to paste in your message





















Find out more...






Find out more...



























 
 
Back to top






Home




U.K.




News




Sports




U.S. Showbiz




Australia




Femail




Health




Science




Money




Video




Travel




Columnists







Sitemap
Archive
Video Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Our Papers
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
Evening Standard
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location
Villa Holidays


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies













 




 











 
 

















