
	7.8-Magnitude Earthquake Devastates Nepal


	7.8-Magnitude Earthquake Devastates Nepal




















Concern USA

Working With The World’s Poorest People To Transform Their Lives.



Home



Who We Are




History 
About Us 
Board & Senior Staff 
Funders 


Financial Information 
Contact Us 





What We Do




Where We Work 

Our Programs 

Education
Emergencies

Health

Nutrition
Maternal & Child Health
Water & Sanitation
Innovations for MNCH


HIV&AIDS
Livelihoods


Global Concerns Classrooms 




Get Involved




Events
Global Concerns Classroom
Work With Us
Thousand Days Partnership





Get Informed




News  & Information Center
Publications & Resources
Press Information




Ways to Donate




Donate
Give a Concern Gift
In honor
In memory
Employee Giving












facebok
twitter
you tube



Share














Donate Now







News












Concern HomeGet informedNews Center


7.8-Magnitude Earthquake Devastates Nepal

Concern is responding in Nepal. DONATE NOW to help.
100% of individual donations go directly to the earthquake response.

Concern Worldwide has deployed a team to Nepal after a 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit near the capital of the Himalayan country. The death toll is already over 7,500 and is expected to rise as many people are feared trapped under the rubble of collapsed buildings.
Latest Updates on Concern's Response

We are currently aiming to distribute shelter and hygiene supplies to 14,000 households in four of the ten worst hit districts in Nepal.
We are focusing on reaching vulnerable and isolated communities that are yet to receive assistance and our top priority will be to give people shelter as well as hygiene items, blankets, water purification tablets, and other relief items.
Concern is linking with two former partners in Nepal, Rural Reconstruction Nepal  and Nepal Water for Health, to carry out the distributions in Sindulpalchowk, Dolakha, Ramecchap, and Gorkha districts.



The Situation on the Ground: Quick Facts

The earthquake’s epicenter was about 48 miles northwest of Kathmandu, the capital, and 42 miles east of Pokhara. The most affected districts are Gorkha and Lamjung in the Western Region.
Over 7,500 people are known to have died and more than 14,000 injured.
An estimated 8 million people in 39 districts have been affected; two million of them live in the severely affected districts.
In some areas near the epicenter, estimates suggest that as much as 80 percent of the shelters have been destroyed or severely damaged
Priority needs include shelter, water, food, and medication. Some 1.4 million people need food assistance.
UNICEF warns that 1.7 million children are in need of urgent aid and warn of waterborne and infectious diseases.

Humanitarian Needs
The earthquake is the worst that Nepal has seen in more than 80 years. It hit just before noon on Saturday, April 25th, and was followed by a series of aftershocks, including one that was 6.6 in magnitude. Most of the known dead and injured are in the valley surrounding the capital Kathmandu. Tremors were felt in India, Bangladesh, and other parts of the region and triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest.
In Kathmandu and surrounding areas, the earthquake has resulted in widespread damage and destruction of buildings, many of which have collapsed. The earthquake also damaged roads and other public infrastructure.
“While the true scale of the disaster is yet to be known, the earthquake has likely left thousands of people homeless with few resources to meet their most basic needs, as the number injured and killed is expected to rise,” says Dominic MacSorley, CEO of Concern Worldwide. “Our team will be assessing the greatest needs throughout the affected areas and will be prepared to respond as needed to critical and lifesaving interventions.” 
Concern's History in Nepal
Concern Worldwide worked in Nepal from 2006 to 2010, focusing on livelihoods, water and sanitation, and nutrition and we are currently working with our former partner organizations on the ground as well as our Alliance 2015 partners in country. Concern has been a first responder in a number of earthquakes in the region and globally, including the 2005 Pakistan earthquake and the 2010 Haiti earthquake.

DONATE NOW to support the response.


Read more:

Nepal earthquake survivor: "the kitchen disappeared before my eyes"
On a remote hillside in Nepal, homes turned to rubble leave many in fear
Near Nepal’s Earthquake Epicenter — Sifting Through Rubble to Find What Remains


















SIGN UP



for Concern Newsletter



Concern's Humanitarian Coordinator, Ros O'Sullivan, discusses the earthquake response plan with logistician Graham Woodcock. Concern is working with local partners to reach some of the worst affected communities with relief supplies.Tulasa Aryal, 58, tries to salvage what she can from her earthquake-ravaged home in Bakrang.Search and rescue teams comb Gongabu, Kathmandu.Sabiana Sapkota and her children in front of the ruins of their home in Kabhrepalanchok district. They now sleep in a chicken shed while trying to build a temporary shelter.



Blogs from the field:

I’m Grateful to Fundraise for Concern Worldwide
A Report from Bentiu, South Sudan
Memories of Mandela: A Seeker of Justice and AIDS Activist
War and Landmines: I Only Saw the Survivors
Life Lessons in Ethiopia





Follow @Concern on Twitter

RT @LBLUS: Living #BelowtheLine for @Concern? Check out this graphic of how the money is being used. http://t.co/QdEP4bwMRmRT @AsiaRD: @Concern Summer in Somalia http://t.co/ZgxfiXX2V0RT @Emsbradleypk: Feeling the energy at @eu_echo programme launch workshop with @Concern and partner staff in Masisi, #DRC. http://t.co/mfT…Distributing emergency aid in the mountains of #Nepal @CrystalAWells and @kjmcconville report: http://t.co/y0PKzXFYw2 http://t.co/PLYK1U18XSRT @CrystalAWells: People wait to receive shelter and relief supplies at a @Concern distribution in Sindhupalchok district #Nepal. http://t…













Who We Are

History 
About Us 
Board & Senior Staff 
Funders 
Financial Information 
Contact Us



What We Do

Where We Work
Our Programs
Global Concerns Classrooms



Get Involved

Events
Work With Us



Get Informed

News Center
Press Information
Our Blogs



Ways to Donate

Donate
Give a Concern Gift
In Honor
In Memory
Employee Giving





Concern USA


355 Lexington Avenue, 19th Floor,
New York, NY 10017
1.800.59.CONCERN













Copyright © 2000-2013 Concern Worldwide US inc. All rights reserved. Support by alienNY.com

Terms of Use
Copyright
Privacy Policy














