Everest hit by avalanche after Nepal earthquake - Telegraph
Everest hit by avalanche after Nepal earthquake - Telegraph






















Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Tuesday 19 May 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Afghanistan
Pakistan
India
North Korea
South Korea
Japan
Kazakhstan





Home»
News»
World News»
Asia»
Mount Everest











Everest hit by avalanche after Nepal earthquake

A large earthquake in Kathmandu has triggered an avalance on Mount Everest, 
  killing 18 people at base camp 

















Officials said 10 people were killed when an avalanche buried parts of Mount Everest's base camp in Nepal where hundreds of mountaineers have gathered at the start of the annual climbing season. Photo: Azim Afif









 



							By Reuters

6:12PM BST 25 Apr 2015
 


 A powerful earthquake in Nepal on Saturday triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest, climbers said, raising fears for those on the world's highest peak a year after another avalanche caused the deadliest incident on the mountain.  An official from the Nepal tourist board confirmed that part of Everest base camp had been buried, and that 18 people had been killed.  "The toll could go up, it may include foreigners as well as sherpas," said Gyanendra Shrestha.  Tiku Gurung, an executive committee member of the Expedition Operators Association, which represents Everest's Sherpas, said there were reports that five climbers had died. It was not clear whether this was in addition to those killed at base camp, or an alternative toll.  "We're not exactly sure but we believe five are dead," he said. "There are so many people injured but we do not know the exact number. The avalanch came from so many sides", he told the Telegraph.  He said there were currently between 700 and 800 climbers on the mountain.  Romanian climber Alex Gavan said on Twitter that there had been a "huge avalanche" and "many, many" people were up on the mountain.   The advance base camp for people climbing Mount Everest sits on the mountain's north slope at about 21,000 feet (AP)  "Running for life from my tent," said Mr Gavan. "Everest base camp huge earthquake then huge avalanche." 

Everest base camp huge earthquaqe then huge avalanche from pumori.Running for life from my tent. Unhurt. Many many people up the mountain.— Alex Gavan (@AlexGAVAN) 
  April 25, 2015
 Another climber, Daniel Mazur, said Everest base camp had been "severely damaged" and his team was trapped.  "Please pray for everyone," he said on his Twitter page.  Adrian Ballinger, a mountain guide who has climbed Everest six times, tweeted: 

Strong aftershocks continuing here on North Side of #Everest. #earthquake #Everest2015— Adrian Ballinger (@alpenglowexp) 
  April 25, 2015
 An earthquake measuring 7.9 magnitude struck west of Kathmandu causing buildings to collapse, killing at least 108 people, injuring more and leaving a pall of dust over the city.  An avalanche in April 2014 just above the base camp on Mount Everest killed 16 Nepali guides. April is one of the most popular times to climb Everest before rain and clouds cloak the mountain at the end of next month. 





























Top news galleries





Chelsea 2015: public descends on a blooming marvellous show




 




The best pictures from the 2015 RHS Chelsea Flower Show 






Prince Charles in Ireland




 




In pics: Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall's four day tour of Ireland






Britain's oldest towns




 




The UK has heritage from top to toe, but nowhere more so than in these 10 towns


Comments






Faces of the Waco motorcycle gang members




 




In pics: Charges filed against 170 motorcycle gang members in Texas






Top 10 subjects for first class degrees




 




What would you have to study to have the greatest chance of getting a top 
  degree? Here are the 10 subjects that awarded the most firsts last year 






Pictures of the day




 




In pics: A baby gorilla, a grumpy tree and a cat that looks like Hitler






Hatton Garden heist




 




In pics: Police release images from the Hatton Garden crime scene 






Prince Charles's visits to Ireland




 




In pics: Prince Charles's visits to Ireland in 1995 and 2002 








Burundians humanitarian crisis




 




In pics: Humanitarian crisis unfolds as Burundians flee to Tanzania






Classic awkward political moments




 




In pics: The most awkward moments in modern British politics









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»







 


Who will win the Eurovision Song Contest?








 


Miliband and Clegg joke in Commons








 


Seven arrested over Hatton Garden heist








 


How not to steal an ATM








 


Prince Charles meets Gerry Adams








 


Terrifying fire engulfs apartment block



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 



































