Nepal can't rebuild without the world's help - Apr. 27, 2015  Nepal can't rebuild without the world's help - Apr. 27, 2015    








Business









		                Top paid women CEOs
		                





Media
Access
Companies
Car News


World
Away
Who is..?


Leading Women
5 Stunning Stats
Interactives






Markets









		                This country hasn't suffered a recession in 24 years
		                





Investing
Economy
Buzz
Trade

ETF Center


Premarkets
Market Movers
Dow 30
After-Hours
World Markets


Investing Guide
The Open
Stockswatch
Tech30
Fear & Greed







Tech









		                Can't wake up? 5th graders have a solution
		                





Innovate
Gadget
Connect


Best In Tech
Cyber-Safe
CES



Innovative Cities
15 Questions With
Love Inc.
Sex, Drugs & Silicon Valley






Personal Finance









		                Summer travel delays are the worst in this city's airports
		                





Save
Spend
Ahead

Wheels
Homes


Careers

Real Estate Special
Millennials & Money
Your Money
Calculators


Money Moves
24 Hours With
Money Essentials

Portfolio
My Watch List






Small Business









		                She's the queen of million-dollar verdicts
		                





Startups
Empire
Women Entrepreneurs







Luxury









		                Flying car companies aim for takeoff in 2017
		                





Voyage
Rare
Wealth


Drive
Millionaire Calculator
Rich Quiz










CNN

U.S. Edition
International




Log In


Log Out









         Nepal can't rebuild without the world's help      
  By Charles Riley   @CRrileyCNN                     Red Cross CEO: Nepal needs basic first aid    
A major earthquake was the last thing Nepal needed.  Even before one of the country's major fault lines rumbled to life, Nepal was beset by challenges: An extremely weak economy, rampant corruption and a series of climbing accidents on Mount Everest, its signature tourist attraction.    

    The death toll from Saturday's 7.8 magnitude earthquake is expected to rise beyond the current 3,862 tally, and initial damage reports indicate widespread devastation.   The total economic cost of reconstruction in Nepal could top $5 billion, according to an early estimate from IHS. The U.S. Geological Survey said the damage costs would most likely fall between $1 billion and $10 billion, but could range much higher.   Related: How to help victims of the Nepal earthquake   "Massive international disaster relief and rescue efforts will be needed urgently, as well as large-scale international financial and technical assistance for long-term reconstruction of the economy," wrote Rajiv Biswas, Asia-Pacific chief economist for IHS, in a research note.   Biswas said the standard of housing construction in Nepal is extremely low, which is why damage appeared to be devastating near the earthquake's epicenter. He said the country has extremely limited capacity to recover and rebuild after disasters.   Nestled high in the mountains between India and China, Nepal's economy generates only $20 billion in activity per year, making it one of the smallest in the world. With annual per capita GDP of around $1,000, many families already live in poverty, and some rely on funding from relatives who live abroad.   Related: 'We huddled under a beam and prayed'   Nepal has struggled in recent years to emerge from a decade-long civil war between Maoists and the government, which ended in 2006. The country's Hindu monarchy has been abolished, but political paralysis remains the norm. Nepal is ranked 126 out of 175 countries on Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index.   One of the lone bright spots had been tourism. According to the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation, one job is generated by every six tourist visits, and 138,000 people are employed in the sector. Most tourists come from India and China, and many are attracted to Nepal's temples. In 2013, nearly 800,000 people visited from abroad.   Still, Himalayan peaks remain the troubled crown jewel of the tourism industry.   Foreign climbers pay tour companies up to $100,000 for a chance to climb Everest. Some of their fees go to the government, while other funds are pumped into local hotels. Mountain guides can also get a slice, but labor disputes have broken out in recent years between the master climbers and management.   In 2014, the climbing season ended after a piece of glacial ice fell on Everest, unleashing an avalanche that killed 16 Nepalis who had just finished their morning prayers.   The earthquake that hit on Saturday set off avalanches that left large numbers of climbers dead, missing, injured or trapped on Everest. Aftershocks, including a strong one Sunday, are continuing to send snow and rocks thundering down the mountainside, complicating rescue efforts.   Related: Google executive killed in Nepal earthquake while climbing Everest   Despite its reputation as a mountain paradise, Nepal's dominant industry is still agriculture. Roughly 70% of the population earns a living from farming, and the industry makes up a little more than one-third of the economy.   Economists see potential in the country's water resources, which are among the best in the world. In addition to improvements in domestic electrical supply, hyrdopower could be exported to neighboring countries, including India and China.   -- CNN's Jethro Mullen contributed reporting.        CNNMoney (Hong Kong)  April 27, 2015: 9:53 AM ET          
        

   Comments         
Most Popular








        Airbag maker Takata announces largest auto recall ever
      








        KFC is bringing back Colonel Sanders
      








        5G will cost you a bundle
      





 
Mortgage & Savings







Search for Jobs






                        Search for Jobs
                    



Millions of job openings!









Search
                                        







Accounting


Finance


Marketing






Engineering


Management


Sales






Development


Media


See All Jobs

















 


Sponsored Lending News



 


CNNMoney Sponsors


































        











Contact Us


Advertise with Us


User Preferences


Closed Captioning





					Content
				




Business


Markets


Investing


Economy


Tech




Personal Finance


Small Business


Luxury


Media


Video





					Tools
				




Site Map


Interactive


Portfolio


Job Search


Real Estate Search




Loan Center


Calculators


Corrections


Market Data Alerts


News Alerts





					Connect
				




My Account


Mobile Site & Apps


Facebook


Twitter


LinkedIn




YouTube


RSS Feeds


Newsletters


Google+




Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.


© 2015 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved.  Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. .












     
    
   