Google executive killed in Nepal earthquake while hiking Everest - Apr. 26, 2015  Google executive killed in Nepal earthquake while hiking Everest - Apr. 26, 2015    








Business









		                Top paid women CEOs
		                





Media
Access
Companies
Car News


World
Away
Who is..?


Leading Women
5 Stunning Stats
Interactives






Markets









		                This country hasn't suffered a recession in 24 years
		                





Investing
Economy
Buzz
Trade

ETF Center


Premarkets
Market Movers
Dow 30
After-Hours
World Markets


Investing Guide
The Open
Stockswatch
Tech30
Fear & Greed







Tech









		                Can't wake up? 5th graders have a solution
		                





Innovate
Gadget
Connect


Best In Tech
Cyber-Safe
CES



Innovative Cities
15 Questions With
Love Inc.
Sex, Drugs & Silicon Valley






Personal Finance









		                Summer travel delays are the worst in this city's airports
		                





Save
Spend
Ahead

Wheels
Homes


Careers

Real Estate Special
Millennials & Money
Your Money
Calculators


Money Moves
24 Hours With
Money Essentials

Portfolio
My Watch List






Small Business









		                She's the queen of million-dollar verdicts
		                





Startups
Empire
Women Entrepreneurs







Luxury









		                Flying car companies aim for takeoff in 2017
		                





Voyage
Rare
Wealth


Drive
Millionaire Calculator
Rich Quiz










CNN

U.S. Edition
International




Log In


Log Out









         Google executive killed in Nepal earthquake while hiking Everest      
  By David Goldman   @DavidGoldmanCNN                     Google exec killed in Nepal lived 'life based on happiness'    
Google executive Dan Fredinburg died while climbing Mt. Everest during the massive Nepal earthquake on Saturday.  Fredinburg was privacy director for the company's Google X team, which is responsible for some of the search company's more forward-thinking initiatives, including driverless cars and Google Glass.    

    A frequent and experienced climber, Fredinburg was scaling Everest with two other Google (GOOGL, Tech30) employees this weekend, while a 7.8-magnitude earthquake caused an avalanche.   Though the other two Googlers survived along with other sherpas and climbing team members, Fredinburg succumbed to a severe head injury, according to an Instagram post on his account written by his sister.   "We appreciate all of the love that has been sent our way thus far and know his soul and his spirit will live on in so many of us," his sister Megan wrote. "All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us."   His girlfriend, Ashley Arenson, called Fredinburg "magical" in a CNN interview on Sunday.   "He had this way of making the people around him just feel special without even trying, and make people feel feel like they could accomplish anything they wanted," Arenson said.   Related: Impact your world   Fredinburg formed the Google Adventure Team, which mapped exotic locations for Google's Street View tool. The team took 360-degree photos of the summit of Mt. Everest and the Great Barrier Reef in Australia, among others.   A Google executive who made headlines for dating actress Sophia Bush, Fredinburg had been posting photos and updates of his adventures in Nepal on Instagram and Twitter, where he referred to himself as an "adventurer, inventor, and energetic engineer."   Bush shared her grief on Instagram, calling Fredinburg "one of my favorite human beings" and "one of the great loves" of her life.   "Today I find myself attempting to pick up the pieces of my heart that have broken into such tiny shards, I'll likely never find them all," she wrote. "Today I, and so many of my loved ones, lost an incredible friend."    Dan Fredinburg with Sophia Bush at the Do Something Awards in Los Angeles in July 2013.     Fredinburg was scaling Everest with a group organized by Jagged Globe, which has offered mountaineering expeditions, courses, adventure skiing and other experiences for the past 20 years.   The expedition company sent its condolences.   "Our thoughts and prayers go out to Dan's family and friends," read a statement on Jagged Globe's website, "whilst we pray too for all those who have lost their lives in one of the greatest tragedies ever to hit this Himalayan nation."   In a blog post, Fredinburg's boss, Google's privacy director Lawrence You, said that Google's crisis response team has launched Person Finder to help victims families locate their loved ones. Google is also working to get updated satellite imagery to help the recovery effort.   You noted that Google.org is committing $1 million to the response, and the company will offer gift-matching to its employees soon.   "Our thoughts are with the people of Nepal, and with Dan's family and friends during this terrible time," You wrote.   --CNNMoney's Laurie Segall and CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.    Dan Fredinburg, who was privacy director for Google X, was an experienced climber.         CNNMoney (New York)  April 26, 2015: 6:46 PM ET          
        

   Comments         
Most Popular








        Airbag maker Takata announces largest auto recall ever
      








        KFC is bringing back Colonel Sanders
      








        5G will cost you a bundle
      







Search for Jobs






                        Search for Jobs
                    



Millions of job openings!









Search
                                        







Accounting


Finance


Marketing






Engineering


Management


Sales






Development


Media


See All Jobs



















Hot List







 
									What $2 million buys around the world
								







 
									Top paid women CEOs
								







 
									Ikea cafe serves breakfast in bed
								







 
									15 top-paid CEOs
								







 
									Worried about your job? Get used to it
								








CNNMoney Sponsors


































        











Contact Us


Advertise with Us


User Preferences


Closed Captioning





					Content
				




Business


Markets


Investing


Economy


Tech




Personal Finance


Small Business


Luxury


Media


Video





					Tools
				




Site Map


Interactive


Portfolio


Job Search


Real Estate Search




Loan Center


Calculators


Corrections


Market Data Alerts


News Alerts





					Connect
				




My Account


Mobile Site & Apps


Facebook


Twitter


LinkedIn




YouTube


RSS Feeds


Newsletters


Google+




Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.


© 2015 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved.  Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy. .












     
    
   