Frustration Grows in Nepal as Earthquake Relief Trickles In - NYTimes.com 



Frustration Grows in Nepal as Earthquake Relief Trickles In - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|Frustration Grows in Nepal as Earthquake Relief Trickles In
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1zjfnst




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Asia Pacific 
Frustration Grows in Nepal as Earthquake Relief Trickles In

By CHRIS BUCKLEY and AUSTIN RAMZYAPRIL 28, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By









Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
KATMANDU, Nepal — Residents of Katmandu living in tent camps after Nepal’s powerful earthquake said on Tuesday that their biggest worry was a lack of safe drinking water, even as they endured the latest pelting of rain.That and other claims of slow disaster relief have kindled growing public frustration here with the Nepalese government, which has struggled to deliver food, water, tents and other aid across this poor, mountainous country of 28 million people.Since the earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday, killing more than 5,000 people at the latest count, the government has instituted disaster-response plans, galvanized the army and received planeloads of aid every day from dozens of other countries.The government has established 16 large camps in Katmandu, and many other residents have made do by sleeping on the street or in open spaces away from damaged buildings and walls. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    










Across Nepal’s Countryside, Desperate Journeys to Ruined Homes After QuakeAPRIL 28, 2015












Nepal Villages Cut Off by Earthquake Wait for Aid as Death Toll Passes 4,000APRIL 27, 2015












A Scene of Destruction After Ice Thunders Into Everest Base CampAPRIL 27, 2015












Google and Facebook Help Nepal Earthquake Survivors and Contacts ConnectAPRIL 27, 2015








Q&A: A Photographer in Katmandu Assesses the Earthquake’s DamageAPRIL 27, 2015








Nepal Earthquake: Where to DonateAPRIL 26, 2015







But residents have complained that the help is not reaching them or is arriving too slowly, and many accuse the government of incompetence, neglect or even corruption. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs of Earthquake Devastation in Nepal            

                When Nepal was hit with a powerful earthquake the tremor shattered lives, landmarks and the very landscape of the country. The scope of the disaster in photographs.            











“I don’t think the government is doing anything,” Sudesh Tulachan, a building worker and shop owner sheltering from the rain under a canopy where hundreds of Katmandu residents displaced from their homes gathered, including 24 of his relatives.“Only this tent was provided by the government, but for everything else, we have had to rely on our own labors,” he said as relatives swayed their heads in agreement. “You can see how many humans are in need.”It is a common complaint in the tent camps across Katmandu, the capital, where aftershocks have deterred many residents from sleeping indoors and where many older buildings have crumbled into piles of broken brick.But the government faces a conundrum in distributing aid, one senior military official said. Though urban residents can protest loudly about their hardships, the most pressing needs are in isolated villages in remote valleys and mountainsides, where the earthquake caused devastating landslides. Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said on Tuesday that the number killed could reach 10,000. 
Continue reading the main story



                Photographs            

                Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the Earthquake            

                The earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 flattened sections of Katmandu’s historic center, where many structures were made with bricks.            








                    OPEN Photographs                




“Our primary, primary, primary goal is to rescue the people,” the official, Brig. Gen. Jagadish Pokharel, a spokesman for the Nepalese Army, told a group of reporters after a briefing on the aid effort. “We are also trying to synchronize it and to distribute to the needy people. We will do our best.”For a government fractured by political rivalries, juggling the demands of distressed citizens could become more difficult if the clean water and other aid fail to flow faster in coming days and blunt public frustration.“The bureaucracy has been a bit slow, but they did seem to get organized in the past 24 hours,” Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator for Nepal, said in a telephone interview.“We’ve got camps with a population we will need to support for the much longer term,” he said. “The material is getting out there, but this is a massive operation.”
Continue reading the main story
Video

After Nepal Earthquake, Funeral Rites

Survivors bury the dead after last Saturday’s earthquake in Katmandu, Nepal.

                By Eugene Yi and Rajneesh Bhandari on                                                    Publish Date April 28, 2015.
                            






Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
The hub of the earthquake relief effort in Nepal is the Tribhuvan International Airport on the outskirts of Katmandu and the adjacent domestic terminal and military quarters. Planes from India, China and other countries have been landing with supplies of water, food, tents, stretchers, medicines and other aid.In the military operations section of the airport, Nepalese officers in mottled fatigues coordinate arrivals of supplies and operate helicopters rescuing badly injured victims of the earthquake from far-off areas. The supplies wait in a warehouse and hangar until civilian government officials allocate them.“We brought in close to 30 tons of drinking water yesterday,” Wing Cmdr. S. S. Birdi, a spokesman for the assisting Indian Air Force, said in an interview at the airport military operations center. “What’s happening is people are all facing hardship, but the people in the remote areas are in much more hardship.”Many Nepalese people have voiced suspicion that much of the assistance has not been shared fairly, or at all, because of incompetence, poor planning or corruption. 
Continue reading the main story








                    OPEN Map                



            Map: Maps of the Damage From the Nepal Earthquakes        


Hundreds of Nepalis, mostly young men, gathered outside the National Parliament in Katmandu on Monday, chanting in anger at what they said was the government’s slow and inept response to the earthquake, including a lack of safe drinking water.“They have not given anything,” one of the protesters, Sajjwal Chaulagain, a 20-year-old student, said in an interview. He and others echoed the widespread belief that the foreign assistance was plentiful and being hoarded by officials.“This is the corruption and laziness in government,” said Sudip Thebe, a business student who joined the protest. “We look at the news, and every country gives us something, but the Nepal government doesn’t give to us.”Not all Nepalese people were angry with the government, and many spoke of their hardships in weary resignation. “I’m angry with being here, but the government is trying,” said Kabin Joshi, a 20-year-old trainee lab technician staying in one of the camps for residents. “We need more help; that’s a fact.”
Continue reading the main story
Video

Fear and Limbo in Katmandu

Since Saturday’s earthquake, tens of thousands in Katmandu have slept outside, wary of aftershocks and the threat of collapsing buildings.

                By Rajneesh Bhandari and Sofia Perpetua on                                                    Publish Date April 28, 2015.
                            





Some relief organization workers said delivering help to villages devastated by the earthquake was a physical challenge that would test any government. The office of the United Nations’ resident coordinator in Nepal on Monday cited estimates that the earthquake had affected eight million people in the country, including two million in the 11 worst affected districts. About 1.4 million of them needed help with food.“The geography is very, very difficult,” Peter Oyloe, the director for nutrition for Save the Children in Nepal, said in a telephone interview. “Trying to deal with geography, trying to get to those people, the most vulnerable especially up in the high mountains, is very difficult.”In Katmandu, with over a million inhabitants, most residents have been able to find enough to eat, and many people return to their homes to pick up food and perhaps cook a meal. By Tuesday, more shops had reopened, making it easier for residents to buy supplies.But safe drinking water has been more difficult to find, especially for poor residents, after the earthquake fractured pipes and tanks, introducing potential dangerous contaminants.The Nepalese Army has been making a more visible effort to improve people’s conditions in at least some tent camps in Katmandu.On Tuesday at Tundikhel, a parade ground near the center of the city that has been turned into a tent camp, Col. Prayog Rana oversaw soldiers handing packets of cooking oil to women. The soldiers have also built more toilets and cleaned the campsite, which holds 6,000 residents, and they were setting up tanks of disease-free drinking water, he said.“I want to organize this place in a very systematic way,” Colonel Rana said, watching soldiers shepherd the women and children into lines. “But so far there are not the resources.”


Chris Buckley reported from Katmandu, and Austin Ramzy from Hong Kong.








Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












