Red Cross Typhoon Haiyan Work in Philippines Turns to Recovery
Red Cross Typhoon Haiyan Work in Philippines Turns to Recovery









Skip to Main Navigation
Skip to Main Content




  


Sign In/Sign Up

Cart: 0 ($0.00)




	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Español 		
	 	
 	
 	





                                   Blacksburg, VA (24060)
                                    








	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		What We Do 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Red Cross Stories 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		News & Events 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Find Your Local Red Cross 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Shop 		
	 	
 	
 	








	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Donate Funds 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Donate Blood 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Training & Certification 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Ways to Help 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Get Assistance 		
	 	
 	
 	

















	Red Cross Typhoon Haiyan Work in Philippines Turns to Recovery











Volunteers and staff working with food items at Philippine Red Cross HQ. Photo: Jarkko Mikkonen/Finnish Red Cross








	    

	
		
		
	
		
		
			
		
	 
	    
	        I was struck by the teamwork of the American Red Cross and the Philippine Red Cross, working together to deliver relief supplies with speed and efficiency, but also with love, respect and kindness...
	    




		       	Posted May 06, 2014
		       	, Updated article
		       	
		       	
		    
Six months after Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines, the global Red Cross network continues to help families rebuild as part of an ongoing and coordinated effort to ensure people have the right help at the right time.  The storm tore through the Philippines in November of 2013 with record strength winds and high storm surges. Approximately 16 million people across 40 provinces were affected by Typhoon Haiyan and more than 1 million homes damaged or destroyed. Red Cross volunteers have been caring for people even before Typhoon Haiyan made landfall. Prior to the arrival of the storm, the Philippine Red Cross worked closely with local disaster authorities to support preemptive evacuations to safer shelters. The Philippine Red Cross also disseminated early warning messages and safety tips in areas along the path of the typhoon.  When the storm made landfall, the global Red Cross network assisted survivors by delivering food, tarps, mosquito nets, clean water,  medical care and other vital assistance to people in need. They also were able to reconnect over 23,000 families and ensure people had access to psychological and emotional support. As of April 2014, more than 1.3 million people have received assistance from the Red Cross. “I was struck by the teamwork of the American Red Cross and the Philippine Red Cross, working together to deliver relief supplies with speed and efficiency, but also with love, respect and kindness,” said Harold Brooks, senior vice president, International Operations, who has been to the Philippines twice since the typhoon. AMERICAN RED CROSS RESPONSE EFFORTS The American Red Cross has played a major role in helping support the global response by lending people, expertise and equipment to the massive effort. The American Red Cross has spent or committed $56.8 million, which is nearly two-thirds of the $85.7 million in donations for the typhoon work. It also has deployed 46 disaster specialists who have provided a wide range of support for sheltering activities, relief distribution, longer term recovery planning, as well as technical expertise in mapping, telecommunications and information technology. With financial and technical support from the American Red Cross, the global Red Cross network has distributed cash grants to more than 59,000 families affected by the typhoon. These grants are empowering families to make their own decisions about how to rebuild.Today, the American Red Cross is helping affected communities with short-term recovery, paving the way to long-term reconstruction.  As part of this effort the Red Cross will focus on some of the most critical needs including helping people rebuild homes with more storm-resistant materials and techniques.  They will also assist people who lost jobs and livelihoods due to the typhoon by replacing or repairing lost or damaged assets, such as fishermen’s boats and nets, and farmer’s tools.  

Tags:
Philippines,
Haiyan,
Typhoon.











 About the American Red Cross: The American Red Cross shelters, feeds and provides emotional support to victims of disasters; supplies about 40 percent of the nation's blood; teaches skills that save lives; provides international humanitarian aid; and supports military members and their families. The Red Cross is a not-for-profit organization that depends on volunteers and the generosity of the American public to perform its mission. For more information, please visit redcross.org or visit us on Twitter at @RedCross.  





				Related
				
			











									Disaster Specialists Spend the Holiday Season in the Philippines
									


December 24, 2013 -
	                
	           
           














									Q & A: Mapping the Effects of Typhoon Haiyan
									


January 21, 2014 -
	                
	           
           














									Red Cross Offers Hope in Wake of Sandy and Haiyan Disasters
									


November 21, 2013 -
	                
	           
           


















See how you can help. Everyone can make a difference.



                            Get Involved
                        









                                            Give Blood
                                        

Help change a life by donating blood or hosting a blood drive. 








                                            Share a Story
                                        

Join others who have given and received help. 



















Blood App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            Users can schedule appointments, track total donations, earn rewards and invite others to join them on a lifesaving team. The Blood Donor App is a great new way to help meet the constant need for blood.
            


                                            Get the Blood App
                                        









Flood App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            Get your family and home ready for a flood. The American Red Cross Flood app is the complete solution you need to understand and prepare for flooding and all that comes with it. 
            


                                            Get the Flood App
                                        









Swim App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            Help your child become a confident swimmer. The American Red Cross Swim app puts the 100 year old Learn to Swim program in the palm of your hand. Brush up on your water safety knowledge, play parent child games together and track your child’s progress in the class.
            


                                            Get the Swim App
                                        









Pet First Aid App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            Take care of your furry family member. The American Red Cross Pet First Aid app puts veterinary advice for everyday emergencies in the palm of your hand. Get the app and be prepared to act when called upon. With videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to know Pet First Aid. 
            


                                            Get the Pet First Aid App
                                        









Team Red Cross: Volunteer App

Team Red Cross wants you! Join Team Red Cross to help provide the care and comfort needed to communities when the unthinkable occurs.Team Red Cross wants people with various backgrounds, talents, and skill levels. Everyone has something special to offer...including you. Make a difference and join Team Red Cross!



                                            Get the Volunteer App
                                        









Wildfire App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            Be ready for wildfires with the Wildfire App by the American Red Cross. Get the latest state-by-state wildfire news and updates, prepare your family, home and pets, let loved ones know that you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an area that is susceptible to wildfires or has loved ones that do.
            


                                            Get the Wildfire App
                                        









Tornado App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            Get your family and home ready for a tornado with the official Tornado App from the American Red Cross. The Tornado app puts everything you need to know prepare for a tornado – and all that comes with it – in the palm of your hand. With interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to be ready. 
            


                                            Get the Tornado App
                                        









First Aid App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            The official American Red Cross First Aid app puts expert advice for everyday emergencies in your hand. Available for iPhone and Android devices, the official American Red Cross First Aid app offers videos, interactive quizzes and simple step-by-step advice it’s never been easier to know first aid.
            


                                            Get the First Aid App
                                        









Hurricane App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            Monitor conditions in your area or throughout the storm track, prepare your family and home, find help and let others know you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an area where a hurricane may strike or has loved ones who do.
            


                                            Get the Hurricane App
                                        









Shelter Finder App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            The Red Cross Shelter Finder is available in the iTunes store and works on iOS devices. The Shelter Finder displays open Red Cross shelters and their current population on an easy to use map interface.
            


                                            Get the Shelter Finder App
                                        









Earthquake App

            	
             
				
				
			
				
				
					
				
			 					
            Be ready for an earthquake with Earthquake by American Red Cross. Get notified when an earthquake occurs, prepare your family and home, find help and let others know you are safe even if the power is out – a must have for anyone who lives in an earthquake-prone area or has loved ones who do.
            


                                            Get the Earthquake App
                                        












 





Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
Flickr
Youtube










	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Who We Are 		
	 	
 	
 	




	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Mission, Vision, and Fundamental Principles 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Our History 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Governance 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Publications 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Career Opportunities 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Media Resources 		
	 	
 	
 	






	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		What We Do 		
	 	
 	
 	




	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Disaster Relief 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Supporting America's Military Families  		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Health and Safety Training & Education 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Lifesaving Blood  		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		International Services  		
	 	
 	
 	






	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Plan & Prepare 		
	 	
 	
 	




	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Prepare Your Home and Family 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Prepare Your School 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Prepare Your Workplace 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Types of Emergency 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Tools and Resources 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Mobile Apps 		
	 	
 	
 	






	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Our Supporters 		
	 	
 	
 	




	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Corporate and Foundation 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Community Partners 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Individual Major Donors 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		National Celebrity Cabinet 		
	 	
 	
 	











                                            Volunteer
                                        




                                            Involve Your School
                                        



                                            Host a Blood Drive 
                                        




                                            Workplace Giving
                                        




                                            Fundraise
                                        










© Copyright  2015 The American Red Cross



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Privacy Policy 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Terms and Conditions 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Connect With Us 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		FAQ 		
	 	
 	
 	



	   
 	
	 	
	 	
	 		Contact Us 		
	 	
 	
 	









































