
      Philippine typhoon death toll to rise as rescuers reach remote areas
| Reuters



      Philippine typhoon death toll to rise as rescuers reach remote areas
| Reuters







 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators
Environment




Opinion



Opinion Home
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers




Video










































Article
Comments (14)
Slideshow
Video
























Philippine typhoon death toll to rise as rescuers reach remote areas

By Andrew R.C. Marshall and Manuel Mogato

TACLOBAN, Philippines  
Mon Nov 11, 2013 6:48pm EST






Tweet





Share this

Email
Print





























1 of 18. 
                                                Children hold signs asking for help and food along the highway, after Typhoon Haiyan hit Tabogon town in Cebu Province, central Philippines November 11, 2013. 
Credit: Reuters/Charlie Saceda





Related Video



Heartbreak across the Philippines
Mon, Nov 11 2013

Typhoon devastation tests Philippines government
Mon, Nov 11 2013

Typhoon Haiyan brings gales, rainstorms to south China
Sun, Nov 10 2013





Factbox


How to help typhoon survivors in the PhilippinesMon, Nov 11 2013



Related News


Britain sending warship to aid Philippines relief effortsMon, Nov 11 2013



Related Topics


World »
Environment »
United Nations »






TACLOBAN, Philippines (Reuters) - Rescue workers tried to reach towns and villages in the central Philippines on Tuesday that were cut off by a powerful typhoon, fearing the estimated death toll of 10,000 could jump sharply, as relief efforts intensified with the help of U.S. military.
The United States will send an aircraft carrier, the USS George Washington, to the Philippines, a U.S. defense official told Reuters, in a move that could further scale up air operations at a time when ground teams are struggling to reach areas where roads are impassable and bridges destroyed.The carrier is already in the region, having been on a port visit to Hong Kong.Officials in Tacloban, which bore the brunt of one of the strongest storms ever recorded when it slammed into the Philippines on Friday, have said the death toll could be 10,000 in their city alone.Compounding the misery for survivors, a depression is due to bring rain to the central and southern Philippines on Tuesday, the weather bureau said."I think what worries us the most is that there are so many areas where we have no information from, and when we have this silence, it usually means the damage is even worse," said Joseph Curry of the U.S. Organization Catholic Relief Services.The "sheer size of the emergency" in the wake of the typhoon was testing relief efforts, he told NBC's "Today" program on Monday, speaking from Manila.John Ging, director of operations at the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, said "many places are strewn with dead bodies" that need to be buried quickly to prevent the outbreak of a public health disaster."We're sadly expecting the worst as we get more and more access," said Ging, speaking to reporters at the United Nations in New York.President Benigno Aquino declared a state of national calamity and deployed hundreds of soldiers in Tacloban to quell looting. Tacloban's administration appeared to be in disarray as city and hospital workers focused on saving their own families and securing food.Nevertheless, relief supplies were getting into the city four days after Typhoon Haiyan turned the once-vibrant port of 220,000 into a corpse-choked wasteland.Aid trucks from the airport struggled to enter because of the stream of people and vehicles leaving. On motorbikes, trucks or by foot, people clogged the road to the airport, holding scarves to their faces to blot out the stench of bodies.Hundreds have left on cargo planes to the capital Manila or the second-biggest city of Cebu, with many more sleeping rough overnight at the wrecked terminal building.Reuters journalists traveled into the city on a government aid truck which was guarded by soldiers with assault rifles. "It's risky," said Jewel Ray Marcia, an army lieutenant. "People are angry. They are going out of their minds."RELIEF EFFORTS PICKING UPInternational relief efforts have begun to accelerate, with dozens of countries and organizations pledging tens of millions of dollars in aid.Operations have been hampered because roads, airports and bridges were destroyed or covered in wreckage by surging waves and winds of up to 235 mph.About 660,000 people were displaced and many have no access to food, water or medicine, the United Nations said.U.N. aid chief Valerie Amos, who is travelling to the Philippines, released $25 million for aid relief on Monday from the U.N. Central Emergency Response Fund.Amos and the Philippines government are due to launch an appeal and action plan on Tuesday to deal with the disaster.Aquino's declaration of a state of national calamity will allow the government to use state funds for relief and to control prices. He said the government had set aside 18.7 billion pesos ($432.97 million) for rehabilitation.Additional U.S. military forces also arrived in the Philippines on Monday to bolster relief efforts, officials said, with U.S. military cargo planes transporting food, medical supplies and water for victims.Other U.S. aircraft were positioning to assist the Philippines, with U.S. forces operating out of Villamor Air Base in Manila and in Tacloban.DEATH TOLL EXPECTED TO RISERescuers have yet to reach remote parts of the coast, such as Guiuan, a town in eastern Samar province with a population of 40,000 that was largely destroyed.The typhoon also leveled Basey, a seaside town in Samar province about 10 km (6 miles) across a bay from Tacloban in Leyte province. About 2,000 people were missing in Basey, said the governor of Samar province.The damage to the coconut- and rice-growing region was expected to amount to more than 3 billion pesos ($69 million), Citi Research said in a report, with "massive losses" for private property.Residents of Tacloban, 580 km (360 miles) southeast of Manila, told terrifying accounts of being swept away by a wall of water, revealing a city that had been hopelessly unprepared for a storm of Haiyan's power.Most of the damage and deaths were caused by waves that inundated towns, washed ships ashore and swept away villages in scenes reminiscent of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.Jean Mae Amande, 22, said she was washed several kilometers from her home by the surge of water. The current ripped her out to sea before pushing her back to shore where she was able to cling to a tree and grab a rope thrown from a boat.An old man who had been swimming with her died when his neck was gashed by an iron roof, she said."It's a miracle that the ship was there," Amande said.(Additional reporting by Rosemarie Francisco and Karen Lema in Manila, Michelle Nichols at the United Nations and Phil Stewart in Washington; Writing by Dean Yates; Editing by Janet Lawrence)
FILED UNDER: 
World
Environment
United Nations







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints





























Trending On Reuters









Pictures of the Year: EnvironmentOur top nature photography from the year 2014.   Gallery 






 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  












































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.






























