Philippines: WFP Dispatches High Energy Biscuits For Typhoon Survivors | WFP | United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide 
Philippines: WFP Dispatches High Energy Biscuits For Typhoon Survivors | WFP | United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide

 








Français
Español
العربية
More中文
Dansk
Nederlands
فارسی
Suomi
Deutsch
Italiano
日本語
한국어
Norsk
Русский
Svenska

 

Donate 




Search this site: 










Menu


AboutExecutive Director
Publications
Senior Leadership
Partners
Corporate Information
Ambassadors
Funding
Careers
Mission Statement
Contact
Strategic Plan

HungerWhat is Hunger?
Who are the Hungry?
What causes Hunger?
What is Malnutrition?
Hunger Map
Hunger Stats
Hunger FAQs
Hunger & Climate Change
Zero Hunger

Our workOur ProgrammesCash and Vouchers
Food for Assets
HIV / AIDS
Purchase for Progress
School Meals
Centre of Excellence

Our ExpertisePreparedness: Being Ready
Responding to Emergencies
Food Security Analysis: Getting the Facts
Procurement: Buying the Food
Nutrition: Right Food, Right Time
Logistics: Delivering the Food
Disaster Risk Reduction

Our OperationsCurrent Emergencies
Emergency Operations
Relief & Recovery Operations
Special Operations


CountriesAfricaAlgeria
Benin
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Congo, Democratic Republic Of
Congo, Republic Of
Côte D'Ivoire
Djibouti
Egypt
Ethiopia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Rwanda
São Tomé And Principe
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania, United Republic Of
The Gambia
Togo
Tunisia
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe

AmericasBolivia
Colombia
Cuba
Ecuador
El Salvador
Guatemala
Haiti
Honduras
Nicaragua
Peru

AsiaAfghanistan
Armenia
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Cambodia
India
Indonesia
Korea, Democratic People's Republic (DPRK)
Kyrgyzstan
Lao PDR
Myanmar
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Sri Lanka
Tajikistan
Timor-Leste

Middle EastIran
Iraq
Jordan
Palestine, State of 
Syria
Yemen


Get InvolvedJoinOur Community
Receive Email Updates
Facebook
Twitter

Ways to HelpTake the Hunger Quiz
Add a Banner to Your Site
Play Freerice
Meet Molly

DonateDonate Online
Become a Monthly Donor
Donate Offline
Where Your Money Goes


 











Stories
Story



Philippines: WFP Dispatches High Energy Biscuits For Typhoon Survivors


11 November 2013








 

Boxes of High Energy Biscuits being prepared at the UN Humanitarian Response Depot in Dubai on Saturday for shipment to the Philippines. The biscuits are destined for the typhoon-ravaged city of Tacloban, in the eastern province of Leyte.
(Copyright: WFP/Mariko Hall)


	    Copyright:  
 A cargo of special biscuits designed for emergency situations arrived in the Philippines on Monday as part of WFP’s contribution to the Typhoon Haiyan response. As the enormity of the damage becomes clear, WFP is mobilizing food supplies and providing logistics and telecommuncations support to the overall relief operation. | Donate at wfp.org/typhoon

Some 44 tons of High Energy Biscuits (HEBs), enough to feed 120,000 people for a day, are now in the Philippines capital Manila, ready for airlift to the storm-ravaged city of Tacloban, in the eastern Leyte province. HEBs (see picture below) are precious in the early stages of an emergency as they are nutritious, need no cooking and are easy to transport.
WFP has allocated 200 tons of the biscuits for the first phase of the response. A further 160 tons will be arriving in Manila in coming days.
	As well as mobilizing food supplies, WFP is also using its logistics expertise in support of the government-led relief effort for the hundreds of thousands of people in desperate need.
	“The main challenges right now are related to logistics. Roads are blocked, airports are destroyed,” said WFP Representative Praveen Agrawal, who took part in an assessment mission in the affected areas at the weekend.
'Organize airlifts'
	“We’re working with the government to set up operational hubs and organize airlifts of supplies,” he continued.
	WFP is working to fly food, logistics and communications equipment to Cebu airport in Leyte. At 150 km, it is the closest functioning airport to Tacloban.
	WFP currently has 10 staff on the ground in Tacloban to mobilize assistance. There is no food, water or electricity in the city and many roads are impassable due to debris. All airports but one in the affected area are unusable.
	WFP, which is leading the logistics side of the international humanitarian response, is also mobilizing logistics supplies.
	Mobile storage units, pre-fabricated offices and generators are being sent from the UN Humanitarian Response Depot in Malaysia. This will allow aid workers to set up operational hubs at Tacloban and Cebu airports. Meanwhile, IT equipment including digital radios is on its way from Dubai.
Incredible story
	The devastation in Tacloban has shocked aid workers and journalists who have visited, underlining the immense power of the storm that raged through the city.
	WFP Country Director Agrawal, who took part in an assessment mission on Saturday, said he met one man who was caught up in the sudden flood of seawater and rain which hit Tacloban but, incredibly, survived.
	“He was caught by the first surge [of the storm] in his village that first flushed him inland and then, as the waters swung back out, he was dragged out to sea and brought back 12 kms away near the airport.”
If you want to donate to WFP operations in the Philippines, go to wfp.org/typhoon.






Thanks for reading this story. Please tell others about it.











 





Hunger can be eliminated in our lifetimes
This requires comprehensive efforts to ensure that every man, woman and child enjoy their Right to Adequate Food; women are empowered; priority is given to family farming; and food systems everywhere are sustainable and resilient.
 


 





Follow World Food Programme on social networks

















2015 © World Food Programme


Donate
Privacy
Terms of Use
Executive Board
WFP Alumni
Mobile Site








