
	Earthquake in Nepal - IFRC


	Earthquake in Nepal - IFRC















































        
        IFRC.org
    

FedNet


DMIS



Home |
Appeals |
Careers |
News |
Contact us |
Sitemap


English
		
		     | français
		
		     | español
		
		     | العربية












Who we are

History

Our vision and mission

The IFRC

RCRC Movement

Federation-wide Databank and Reporting System

Directory

Working with us

Performance and accountability



What we do

Development work

Health 

Migration

Risk reduction

Shelter

Recovery

Capacity building

Promoting principles and values

Humanitarian Diplomacy

Disaster and crisis management

Disaster law

Humanitarian logistics

Beneficiary communications

Volunteers

Youth



Where we work

Africa

Americas

Asia Pacific 

Europe and Central Asia

Middle East and North Africa



Get involved

Donate

IFRC Social Media

Learning | Education | Training

Become a volunteer

Asia Pacific Fundraisers' Network



News and media

News stories

Blogs

Social media

Opinions and positions

Meetings and events

Image library

Video Newsroom

Press releases

Press Contacts



Appeals

Publications

General publications

World Disasters Report

IFRC Annual Report – 2013

Disaster Law Database

Appeals

Evaluations

Code of conduct

Donor response





You are here: Home / ... / Asia Pacific / Nepal / Earthquake in Nepal
Text size: 
-A 
A 
+A










News stories

Africa

Americas

Asia Pacific

Afghanistan

Australia

Bangladesh

Brunei Darussalam

Cambodia

China

Cook Islands

Fiji

India

Indonesia

Japan

Kiribati

Korea, Democratic People's Republic Of

Korea, Republic Of

Lao People's Democratic Republic

Malaysia

Maldives

Marshall Islands, Republic of the

Micronesia, Federated States Of

Mongolia

Myanmar

Nepal

Red Cross expands emergency appeal to reach 700,000 survivors following recent earthquakes in Nepal

How the mountains hid the disaster – reaching the remote communities after the earthquake in Nepal

Nepal: New earthquake strikes double blow to communities struggling to recover 

Shattered dreams and spiraling debt. Nepal’s earthquake survivors struggle to make ends meet

Broken bones and chronic illness – Red Cross field hospital treats hundreds in Chautara

Quake hero’s tribute to school teacher who perished 

Red Cross workers killed in Nepal earthquake honoured by colleagues

Tents, tarpaulins and tigers: mountain communities in Nepal struggle to cope after the earthquake

For Mangal Kalasula, 25 April brought back distant memories

Medical aid is reaching more remote areas, and so are the patients

Earthquake wounded face gruelling journeys on foot to find treatment

Defiant survivors step in to support earthquake wounded in Nepal

Japanese Red Cross medical teams reach communities beyond Kathmandu

Search and rescue continues as the scale of needs begins to come clear

Krishna lost his home three days ago – Now he is focusing on helping others

Training and awareness lead to hard choices for a Red Cross worker during Nepal earthquake

Concern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquake 

In pictures - Nepal earthquake

A Red Cross volunteer, prepared and able to help where it was needed most

Earthquake in Nepal

President Konoé's Nepal visit focuses on auxiliary role and risk reduction

Families hoping for a quick return to homes following landslide in Nepal

IFRC appeals for assistance as floods and landslides leave thousands homeless in Nepal

Nepal:  Thousands displaced by floods and landslides



New Zealand

Pakistan

Palau

Papua New Guinea

Philippines

Samoa

Singapore

Solomon Islands

Sri Lanka

Taiwan

Thailand

Timor-Leste

Tonga

Tuvalu

Vanuatu

Vietnam



Europe and Central Asia

Middle East And North Africa

International news



Blogs

Social media

Opinions and positions

Meetings and events

Image library

Video Newsroom

Press releases

Press Contacts















                    Red Cross volunteers in action following 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal






Published: 25 April 2015 15:12 CET










 
The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) has launched a major emergency response operation following the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal on 25 April. Authorities report over 3,000 people have been killed and many buildings have collapsed in the capital, Kathmandu.
33.4 million Swiss franc appeal
In response to significant humanitarian needs following the earthquake, the IFRC has launched a 33.4 million Swiss franc emergency appeal to provide vital services including food, shelter and water and sanitation assistance for 75,000 vulnerable people. The appeal was launched following an initial Disaster Relief Emergency Fund allocation of 500,000 Swiss francs, which was activated to ensure resources are available immediately.


As search and rescue efforts continue, hospitals in the capital continue to function but are stretched to the limit. Powerful aftershocks continue to be felt, so further damage is a risk, increasing the climate of fear amongst the local population. 
“I was in my fifth floor apartment and the shaking was extremely violent. We could see dust rising from the hills around the city and luckily we were able to evacuate," said a British Red Cross staff member working closely with Nepal Red Cross Society colleagues in Kathmandu. 
The epicenter was 80km for Kathmandu in Lamjung, Gorkha district. Most casualties reported so far were in the Kathmandu valley where buildings have collapsed in densely populated areas, including historic buildings such as the Darahara Tower.

“We are extremely concerned about the fate of communities in towns and villages in rural areas closer to the epicenter,” said Jagan Chapagain, the IFRC’s Director for Asia Pacific. “Access roads have been damaged or blocked by landslides and communications lines are down, preventing us from reaching local Red Cross branches to get accurate information. We anticipate that there will be considerable destruction and loss of life.”
The Nepal Red Cross Society has extensive experience in responding to natural disasters and plays a lead role in the government’s contingency plans. Emergency responders from the Red Cross trained in first aid and search and rescue have been mobilised to affected areas. The organization's blood bank in Kathmandu is also providing blood supplies to the main medical facilities in the capital.
The IFRC is mobilising resources from its hubs in New Delhi, Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok and is releasing funds from its Disaster Response Emergency Fund to support the initial emergency response. International assistance is currently hindered by the closure of the Kathmandu airport.  
Nepal’s National Society for Earthquake Technology had previously estimated that a large-scale earthquake in mid-Nepal could displace over 1.8 million people, kill over 100,000 and injure a further 300,000.  
“We do not yet know the scope of damage, but no doubt this is the most deadly and devastating earthquake since the 1934 tremor which devastated Nepal and Bihar,” said Chapagain. “People will need considerable support including food, water, medical care and emergency shelter.”
The tremor was felt nationwide and as far as Pakistan Tibet and Bangladesh. It is not clear how it has affected neighbouring Sikkim, Bihar and West Bengal.
You can donate to support the IFRC's vital work in Nepal here.

























Related stories


Training and awareness lead to hard choices for a Red Cross worker during Nepal earthquakeConcern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquake A Red Cross volunteer, prepared and able to help where it was needed mostIn pictures – Volunteers in action following the earthquakeFrequently asked questions about the earthquake response·         Concern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquakeConcern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquake















Press releases




Nepal: Red Cross rushes help to quake affected population as needs escalate

                        Delhi/ Kuala Lumpur/ Geneva, 27   April 2015 – The Nepal Red Cross Society emergency teams are...


Nepal: Red Cross on the front lines responding to massive quake 

                        Delhi/ Kuala Lumpur/ Geneva, 25 April 2015 –  The International Federation of Red Cross and Red...









Map

























RSS



Did you find an error on this page? Please tell us!






Home

Appeals

Careers

News

Contact us

Sitemap




            Go to top




The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) is the world's largest humanitarian organization, with 189 member National Societies. As part of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, our work is guided by seven fundamental principles; humanity, impartiality, neutrality, independence, voluntary service, unity and universality. About this site & copyright









