
	Concern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquake  - IFRC


	Concern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquake  - IFRC
















































        
        IFRC.org
    

FedNet


DMIS



Home |
Appeals |
Careers |
News |
Contact us |
Sitemap


English
		
		     | français
		
		     | español
		
		     | العربية












Who we are

History

Our vision and mission

The IFRC

RCRC Movement

Federation-wide Databank and Reporting System

Directory

Working with us

Performance and accountability



What we do

Development work

Health 

Migration

Risk reduction

Shelter

Recovery

Capacity building

Promoting principles and values

Humanitarian Diplomacy

Disaster and crisis management

Disaster law

Humanitarian logistics

Beneficiary communications

Volunteers

Youth



Where we work

Africa

Americas

Asia Pacific 

Europe and Central Asia

Middle East and North Africa



Get involved

Donate

IFRC Social Media

Learning | Education | Training

Become a volunteer

Asia Pacific Fundraisers' Network



News and media

News stories

Blogs

Social media

Opinions and positions

Meetings and events

Image library

Video Newsroom

Press releases

Press Contacts



Appeals

Publications

General publications

World Disasters Report

IFRC Annual Report – 2013

Disaster Law Database

Appeals

Evaluations

Code of conduct

Donor response





You are here: Home / ...
Text size: 
-A 
A 
+A










News stories

Africa

Americas

Asia Pacific

Afghanistan

Australia

Bangladesh

Brunei Darussalam

Cambodia

China

Cook Islands

Fiji

India

Indonesia

Japan

Kiribati

Korea, Democratic People's Republic Of

Korea, Republic Of

Lao People's Democratic Republic

Malaysia

Maldives

Marshall Islands, Republic of the

Micronesia, Federated States Of

Mongolia

Myanmar

Nepal

Red Cross expands emergency appeal to reach 700,000 survivors following recent earthquakes in Nepal

How the mountains hid the disaster – reaching the remote communities after the earthquake in Nepal

Nepal: New earthquake strikes double blow to communities struggling to recover 

Shattered dreams and spiraling debt. Nepal’s earthquake survivors struggle to make ends meet

Broken bones and chronic illness – Red Cross field hospital treats hundreds in Chautara

Quake hero’s tribute to school teacher who perished 

Red Cross workers killed in Nepal earthquake honoured by colleagues

Tents, tarpaulins and tigers: mountain communities in Nepal struggle to cope after the earthquake

For Mangal Kalasula, 25 April brought back distant memories

Medical aid is reaching more remote areas, and so are the patients

Earthquake wounded face gruelling journeys on foot to find treatment

Defiant survivors step in to support earthquake wounded in Nepal

Japanese Red Cross medical teams reach communities beyond Kathmandu

Search and rescue continues as the scale of needs begins to come clear

Krishna lost his home three days ago – Now he is focusing on helping others

Training and awareness lead to hard choices for a Red Cross worker during Nepal earthquake

Concern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquake 

In pictures - Nepal earthquake

A Red Cross volunteer, prepared and able to help where it was needed most

Earthquake in Nepal

President Konoé's Nepal visit focuses on auxiliary role and risk reduction

Families hoping for a quick return to homes following landslide in Nepal

IFRC appeals for assistance as floods and landslides leave thousands homeless in Nepal

Nepal:  Thousands displaced by floods and landslides



New Zealand

Pakistan

Palau

Papua New Guinea

Philippines

Samoa

Singapore

Solomon Islands

Sri Lanka

Taiwan

Thailand

Timor-Leste

Tonga

Tuvalu

Vanuatu

Vietnam



Europe and Central Asia

Middle East And North Africa

International news



Blogs

Social media

Opinions and positions

Meetings and events

Image library

Video Newsroom

Press releases

Press Contacts















                    Concern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquake 






Published: 28 April 2015 15:41 CET


    The Nepal Red Cross has been distributing tarpaulins across Kathmandu to provide families with emergency shelter. Palani Mohan/IFRC 







By Patrick Fuller, IFRC
As the relief operation increases in areas of central Nepal devastated by Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake, hundreds of thousands of families face the prospect of another night in the open air, fearful of returning to their homes due to aftershocks. A priority for the Nepal Red Cross Society has been to distribute emergency tarpaulins which provide basic shelter. Kathmandu is home to 2.5 million people and distributing emergency relief has its challenges.
“The difficulty we face here is that everyone is in need,” said Dev Ratna Dhakwa, Secretary General of the Nepal Red Cross Society. “Every day we have had crowds coming to office asking for tarpaulins, it’s a supply and demand problem, we simply cannot help everyone. Hopefully when the aftershocks subside many people will be able to return to their homes. We are planning the next phase of the response. Thousands of people have no homes to return to, and will need to be moved into tents.”
The scale of this disaster is still unfolding and assessing the humanitarian situation in rural areas of the 11 most severely affected districts is not easy. Of the estimated six million people affected by the earthquake, three-quarters live outside the Kathmandu Valley.  
“We have a presence in every district and some pre-positioned relief stocks, but reaching these areas is extremely challenging. Some of the high altitude regions in the Himalayas close to the border area with Tibet are only accessible by helicopter,” Mr Dhakwa said.
In Sindhupalchok district, considered to be one of the worst affected areas, there are reports that thousands of homes have been destroyed. One Red Cross volunteer, Drishya Gurung, who was in a village in the district had a narrow escape when the earthquake struck.  Despite being injured, she managed to reach safety and later sent a Facebook message: ‘I know that many rescue teams have been mobilized but I haven’t heard of any team reaching Sindhupalchok. The village I was in is totally destroyed; people are in dire need of help.’
Due to Nepal’s mountainous terrain and poor road infrastructure, reaching affected villages often means using Sherpa’s to carry the materials on foot up narrow mountain paths.
In Kathmandu itself, everyday life for residents isn’t easy. While much of the city remains undamaged, everyone is feeling the effects of the earthquake.  Many shops remain closed and supplies of dried food staples such as rice are running low. Moreover, water supply is erratic and there is no electricity in many areas.
Bijay Dahal, a staff member of the Red Cross, is struggling to cope with the demands of his day job while also looking after his father and disabled son. “The water tank in our house is empty and our food supplies are running out,” he said. “My son is distressed at having to sleep outdoors in the cold every night under plastic sheeting. We can’t take much more of this but everyone’s in the same situation.”




























Donate online



Save lives by supporting our work in Nepal and around the world























                        IFRC in partnership with ammado
                    
















Map

























RSS



Did you find an error on this page? Please tell us!






Home

Appeals

Careers

News

Contact us

Sitemap




            Go to top




The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) is the world's largest humanitarian organization, with 189 member National Societies. As part of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, our work is guided by seven fundamental principles; humanity, impartiality, neutrality, independence, voluntary service, unity and universality. About this site & copyright









