
	Training and awareness lead to hard choices for a Red Cross worker during Nepal earthquake - IFRC


	Training and awareness lead to hard choices for a Red Cross worker during Nepal earthquake - IFRC
















































        
        IFRC.org
    

FedNet


DMIS



Home |
Appeals |
Careers |
News |
Contact us |
Sitemap


English
		
		     | français
		
		     | español
		
		     | العربية












Who we are

History

Our vision and mission

The IFRC

RCRC Movement

Federation-wide Databank and Reporting System

Directory

Working with us

Performance and accountability



What we do

Development work

Health 

Migration

Risk reduction

Shelter

Recovery

Capacity building

Promoting principles and values

Humanitarian Diplomacy

Disaster and crisis management

Disaster law

Humanitarian logistics

Beneficiary communications

Volunteers

Youth



Where we work

Africa

Americas

Asia Pacific 

Europe and Central Asia

Middle East and North Africa



Get involved

Donate

IFRC Social Media

Learning | Education | Training

Become a volunteer

Asia Pacific Fundraisers' Network



News and media

News stories

Blogs

Social media

Opinions and positions

Meetings and events

Image library

Video Newsroom

Press releases

Press Contacts



Appeals

Publications

General publications

World Disasters Report

IFRC Annual Report – 2013

Disaster Law Database

Appeals

Evaluations

Code of conduct

Donor response





You are here: Home / ...
Text size: 
-A 
A 
+A










News stories

Africa

Americas

Asia Pacific

Afghanistan

Australia

Bangladesh

Brunei Darussalam

Cambodia

China

Cook Islands

Fiji

India

Indonesia

Japan

Kiribati

Korea, Democratic People's Republic Of

Korea, Republic Of

Lao People's Democratic Republic

Malaysia

Maldives

Marshall Islands, Republic of the

Micronesia, Federated States Of

Mongolia

Myanmar

Nepal

Red Cross expands emergency appeal to reach 700,000 survivors following recent earthquakes in Nepal

How the mountains hid the disaster – reaching the remote communities after the earthquake in Nepal

Nepal: New earthquake strikes double blow to communities struggling to recover 

Shattered dreams and spiraling debt. Nepal’s earthquake survivors struggle to make ends meet

Broken bones and chronic illness – Red Cross field hospital treats hundreds in Chautara

Quake hero’s tribute to school teacher who perished 

Red Cross workers killed in Nepal earthquake honoured by colleagues

Tents, tarpaulins and tigers: mountain communities in Nepal struggle to cope after the earthquake

For Mangal Kalasula, 25 April brought back distant memories

Medical aid is reaching more remote areas, and so are the patients

Earthquake wounded face gruelling journeys on foot to find treatment

Defiant survivors step in to support earthquake wounded in Nepal

Japanese Red Cross medical teams reach communities beyond Kathmandu

Search and rescue continues as the scale of needs begins to come clear

Krishna lost his home three days ago – Now he is focusing on helping others

Training and awareness lead to hard choices for a Red Cross worker during Nepal earthquake

Concern grows for thousands stranded in Himalayas after Nepal earthquake 

In pictures - Nepal earthquake

A Red Cross volunteer, prepared and able to help where it was needed most

Earthquake in Nepal

President Konoé's Nepal visit focuses on auxiliary role and risk reduction

Families hoping for a quick return to homes following landslide in Nepal

IFRC appeals for assistance as floods and landslides leave thousands homeless in Nepal

Nepal:  Thousands displaced by floods and landslides



New Zealand

Pakistan

Palau

Papua New Guinea

Philippines

Samoa

Singapore

Solomon Islands

Sri Lanka

Taiwan

Thailand

Timor-Leste

Tonga

Tuvalu

Vanuatu

Vietnam



Europe and Central Asia

Middle East And North Africa

International news



Blogs

Social media

Opinions and positions

Meetings and events

Image library

Video Newsroom

Press releases

Press Contacts















                    Training and awareness lead to hard choices for a Red Cross worker






Published: 29 April 2015 12:18 CET


    Volunteers from the Bhaktapur district Red Cross chapter are bringing more tarpoulins (tents) to the storage to be delivered for the people who suffered the most in the coming days. Picture by Aapo Huhta / Finnish Red Cross  







By Nichola Jones, British Red Cross
Father-of-two Bijay Dahal was upstairs in his two-storey home in Baneshwor, Kathmandu with his family on Saturday when his chair started to shudder.
“Suddenly, the house started shaking, I could feel it swaying – I knew what was happening,” he said. “I grabbed my kids and dragged them to the door.  I could hear my wife in the other room crying and praying.”
Dahal, a Nepalese Red Cross worker trained in disaster management, knew they had to escape the house as soon as the shaking subsided.  But 20 years’ experience could not prepare him for the heart-rending decision he had to make as he was fleeing to open ground.
“As I was running down the stairs with my boys, my elderly parents were clinging to each other in the bedroom,” he said.  “My dad is 79 and paralysed – she would not leave his side.
“In that moment, I had to make a choice – to get my kids to safety or to stay with my parents with no guarantee that the house would withstand the earthquake. My mum told me to go.”
Dahal’s eldest son, who is 15 and has Down’s syndrome, was begging his dad to save his grandparents but the disaster expert knew he couldn’t do both. “I am normally my son’s protector, his friend. But in that moment, I had to shout and drag him out – I could see the confusion in his face. That was very painful,” Dahal said.
The family were joined outside by crowds of bewildered neighbours, but  Dahal had to wait 30 agonising minutes before he knew his parents were safe.
“I wore my motorbike helmet to reenter the house to check on them after the shaking stopped. It was amazing to find them both okay.”
Dahal, his wife and sons were forced to sleep outside in the driving rain as powerful aftershocks continued to crumble buildings around the neighbourhood.
“A seven-storey guest house collapsed in my neighbourhood and I know there are still bodies buried under the rubble,” he said.
Dahal is now back to work and at the heart of the Nepal Red Cross Society relief effort  both inside the city and across difficult-to-reach areas across the country. He said the priority for the moment was immediate relief. “Food, water and shelter for the many families who continue to live outside are our priority right now, and we will be striving to reach those community that desperately need our help,” he said.




























Donate online



Save lives by supporting our work in Nepal and around the world























                        IFRC in partnership with ammado
                    
















Map

























RSS



Did you find an error on this page? Please tell us!






Home

Appeals

Careers

News

Contact us

Sitemap




            Go to top




The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) is the world's largest humanitarian organization, with 189 member National Societies. As part of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, our work is guided by seven fundamental principles; humanity, impartiality, neutrality, independence, voluntary service, unity and universality. About this site & copyright









