A Scene of Destruction After Ice Thunders Into Everest Base Camp - NYTimes.com 



A Scene of Destruction After Ice Thunders Into Everest Base Camp - NYTimes.com







NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version









Asia Pacific|A Scene of Destruction After Ice Thunders Into Everest Base Camp
 

Advertisement





 Search
 
Log In
0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1HOgcvW




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 







Advertisement





Asia Pacific 
A Scene of Destruction After Ice Thunders Into Everest Base Camp

By CHRIS BUCKLEY and NIDA NAJARAPRIL 27, 2015
 
Inside



Supported By








Continue reading the main story
Video

Witness Videos on Everest After Quake

A compilation of witness videos shows the frantic moment Saturday’s earthquake touched off an avalanche at Mount Everest and the days after as rescue crews tried to reach survivors.

Publish Date April 28, 2015.
                            

                                    Photo by 6Summitschallenge.Com/Reuters.
                            





Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story

 
KATMANDU, Nepal —  Even for Lakpa Rita, a revered Nepalese mountaineer who has reached the summit of Mount Everest 17 times, the roaring wall of boulders, rocks, ice and debris that pulverized much of the mountain’s base camp over the weekend signified a malign new twist in the peak’s destructive powers.“Nothing like this has happened before at Everest base camp,” Mr. Rita said by telephone Monday from the camp in eastern Nepal, in the aftermath of the earthquake that set off the avalanche and geological convulsions there. At least 18 people died in the area of the camp, which is 18,000 feet above sea level. “This is a huge, huge avalanche,” he said.The search for victims’ bodies around the camp, where mountaineers gather before trying to reach Everest’s summit, is likely to be long and difficult. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    






Q&A: A Photographer in Katmandu Assesses the Earthquake’s DamageAPRIL 27, 2015












Nepal Villages Cut Off by Earthquake Wait for Aid as Death Toll Passes 4,000APRIL 27, 2015












Google and Facebook Help Nepal Earthquake Survivors and Contacts ConnectAPRIL 27, 2015








Nepal Earthquake: Where to DonateAPRIL 26, 2015










map



Maps of the Damage From the Nepal EarthquakesAPRIL 25, 2015










video



Survivors Rescued From Mount EverestAPRIL 26, 2015










slideshow



Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the EarthquakeAPRIL 25, 2015







Rescue efforts stalled on Monday because of bad weather, after 20 stranded climbers had been evacuated and 11 bodies had been retrieved, Jhankanath Dhakal, the chief district officer of Solukhumbu District, which includes Nepal’s part of Everest, said in a telephone interview. That was after 60 people were evacuated from Everest on Sunday, he said.
Photo






The earthquake in Nepal unleashed a wall of snow and debris that flew toward Everest base camp Saturday.

Credit
            Roberto Schmidt/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        


For many tourists and adventurers, visiting Everest — even at the relatively low base camp — fulfills an intensely personal, and expensive, quest to test extremes. But for many ethnic Sherpas employed as local guides, who often take immense pride in their skills, the most urgent motivation is a good income.Last year, an avalanche killed at least 13 Sherpa guides on Mount Everest, and left three others missing, probably dead. The number of Sherpas among the fatalities at base camp this time was unclear, but Mr. Dhakal, the district official, said the 11 bodies retrieved on Monday included seven Nepalis. Yet even the two successive seasons of tragedy appeared unlikely to deter Sherpa men from taking jobs as paid guides and load-bearers on mountain expeditions.In Nepal, where the average income is about $700 a year, Sherpas can make $3,000 to $5,000 in a season on Mount Everest, plus bonuses if they reach the summit.“They still do it, especially for the money,” said Jangba Shankar, an employee of a Himalayan mountain guide company who was at the Katmandu Medical College hospital, helping to care for a guide who had been flown down from the base camp with head and neck injuries.
Photo






A rescue helicopter ferried injured people from the camp a day later.

Credit
            Roberto Schmidt/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        


“Some people are not happy because they lost their jobs because of the avalanche,” said Mr. Shankar, referring to the disaster last year. “Some people worry the earthquake will scare away people.”Even hardened climbers acknowledged being terrified by the wave of destruction.“I heard a really big thump and then I knew, O.K., the avalanche is coming,” Mariusz Malkowski, a 42-year-old Polish-American engineer and an experienced climber, said on Monday after finding his way out of base camp and to New Delhi. But he said he was not prepared for what he saw: a wave of snow and ice, accompanied by a tremendous gust of air. “Imagine a tsunami,” he said.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
“Mountains and glaciers shook all around us,” Sean Wisedale, a South African climber and expedition leader, recounted on his blog. “A massive ice slab sheared and thundered into base camp. It lifted rocks and boulders ahead of it, slamming into hundreds of tents in the center of the camp and spilling over onto the Khumbu glacier on the other side.”
Photo






Critically injured people being evacuated from Everest Base Camp in Nepal on Sunday.

Credit
            Nima Namgyal Sherpa/Associated Press        


Members of his team dived into their tents, and then emerged to a different world. “Base camp was the site of post Armageddon,” he wrote.There seems little chance, however, that successive disasters will seriously dull the luster of Mount Everest among visitors. Some foreign trekkers who had left Everest after the earthquake, or had their plans to visit stymied by the disaster, said in interviews in Katmandu that they hoped to return to the mountain. Others said they had seen enough.“Emotionally, I felt like this trip was so much bigger than the actual physical journey,” Rob Besecker, who lives in Chicago, said in an interview. He has muscular dystrophy and heart problems, and said he had trekked to the Everest base camp, and other famous or forbidding parts of the world, to show people that illness should not govern their lives. He had already left the base camp when the earthquake struck.“I felt there were so many eyes on me that you just got to do it,” Mr. Besecker said. “So there was a physical battle, and an emotional battle.”When memories of this year’s trauma subside, mountain enthusiasts will return to Everest with the same zeal as before, according to Jiban Ghimire, the managing director of Shangri-La Nepal Trek, a company in Katmandu that provides support to mountaineering teams.“My experience is that every year something goes wrong,” he said. “But when you cross three months, six months, eight months, people start asking me, ‘Hey Jiban, I want to go back.’ ”


Chris Buckley reported from Katmandu, and Nida Najar from New Delhi. Hari Kumar contributed reporting from New Delhi.
A version of this article appears in print on April 28, 2015, on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: A Scene of Destruction After Ice Thunders Into Everest Base Camp.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe










Loading...








Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 












