British families endure wait for news of loved ones missing after Nepal earthquake | Daily Mail Online
British families endure wait for news of loved ones missing after Nepal earthquake | Daily Mail Online
































 













 Home




 U.K.



 
 

News




 Sports




 U.S. Showbiz




 Australia




 Femail




 Health




 Science




 Money




 Video




 Travel




 Columnists







Latest Headlines


News


Arts


Headlines


Pictures


Most read


News Board


Wires



My Profile
Logout



Login












Feedback








DailyMail






 


Home
Top







 show ad

























	44
      
shares






Home
Top









Columbia University student takes her rape-protest mattress to graduation because the student she accuses of assaulting her    was also there





EXCLUSIVE: The 'party-hard' multimillionaire Waco 'breastaurant' owners who ignored police warnings against hosting biker gathering which turned into bloodbath





Three bikers 'involved in Waco gun battle' are mistakenly RELEASED from jail as authorities name nine gang members who were killed





'I feared for my life': Father weeps as he relives 'horrifying' moment biker gang attacked him, his wife and child in road rage clash as undercover COP who took part in melee is pictured





Pictured: The moment lone cop kept at least seven gang members on the ground during shoot-out as it emerges battle began 'when biker ran over rival's FOOT' following year-long turf war





Court battle over four-year-old boy's circumcision continues after mother is arrested for going on the run with child





CIA officer went 'under the radar' in Iran while six of his colleagues were rescued in daring mission immortalized in Argo movie 





Men FAKE working hard in the office, but still get promoted - and women should do the same to get ahead, claims research 





Iowa mom who was stranded in Hong Kong after premature birth is finally set to return home - as well-wishers help her pay $24k medical bills that go up by $3,000 a DAY





Revealed: American doctor's first-hand account of how he saw Dachau's SS guards being tortured and shot dead by GIs in 'cold blood' because they 'so had it coming'





KFC bringing back Colonel Sanders for new ad campaign tapping Saturday Night Live star Darrell Hammond to play the chicken chain's iconic founder





No bananas please, we're vegetarian! The foods you think are safe to eat but actually contain SECRET animal products 





Man who shot George Zimmerman was 'fixated' on him and had a history of mental illness





Man wrongly imprisoned for nearly 40 years sues city of Cleveland and police officers 'who helped frame him'





From Modern Family's $1.5million mansion to Rosanne's modest $112,000 house: Here's what famous TV homes would be worth in the real world





Robert Kraft announces New England Patriots will NOT appeal Deflategate decision and team will 'reluctantly' accept $1million fine and loss of draft picks





Kraft defends quarterback Brady in deflategate scandal: 'I've known Tommy 16 years, almost half his life. He's a man, he's always been honest with me, and I trust him' 





Warren Sapp avoids jail after solicitation charge for Super Bowl night arrest is dropped and ex-NFL star agrees to counseling for assaulting a prostitute





Returning to face the music! Tom Brady keeps a low profile as he heads home from luxury Bahamas vacation with wife Gisele





Celebrity chef Sandra Lee now in recovery after double mastectomy for breast cancer with boyfriend New York Governor Andrew Cuomo by her side





Don't worry about ISIS being on the road to Baghdad and storming into Ramadi in an orgy of beheadings, we're succeeding in Iraq says White House





U.S. intelligence agencies investigate whether slain ISIS leader was captor of 24-year-old American hostage





The 7 embarrassing health symptoms you should NEVER ignore, from bloating to profuse sweating and a low sex drive





Former Congressional candidate admits plotting firebombing and school massacre in attack to destroy Muslim enclave Islamberg in New York




Previous
Next








Race against time to save UK student in Nepal after friend says her group is trapped without food and water… as Foreign Office investigate separate report of a British national being killed Susannah Ross, from Bath, is among  trekkers stranded in Langtang valleyTweeters are re-tweeting her location: '28.154815 long 85.398595'It's been revealed that a fourth American has been killed by the earthquakeDeath toll from Saturday's 7.8 magnitude quake is now more than 5,000 By

Ted Thornhill for MailOnline


and 
Sam Greenhill for the Daily Mail


Published:
  04:25 EST, 28 April 2015

 | 
Updated:
  10:01 EST, 28 April 2015





















44
shares

 
          45
View  comments



The family of missing Bath woman Susannah Ross has received an SOS message saying her group is trapped in Nepal without food and water and in desperate need of medical assistance.Dozens of other families are also enduring an agonising wait for news about loved ones after Saturday's devastating earthquake.The Foreign Office is currently probing reports that one British national has been killed by it, as the death toll from the disaster topped 5,000.Towns and villages across Nepal have been flattened and communications problems in the worst-affected areas has meant friends and families of foreigners staying there have been left in the dark about their well-being. 
 
Susannah Ross (pictured), 20, from Bath, is among a group of trekkers left stranded in the Langtang valley in the north of the country  
 The GPS co-ordinates of the spot from where Susannah Ross's group of travellers issued a distress call  
 The Langtang National Park lies just to the north of Kathmandu. Ms Ross's family have spoken of their distress over her plight, as they have yet to hear from her directly  
 Lucky Tom Southgate (right), 23, had a lucky escape on Saturday because illness prevented him from travelling to Everest Base Camp 
 
Samuel Becket from Leicester (left) has not been heard of since the disaster unfolded and Matt Carapiet (right) from Maidstone, Kent, is also still missing 
 
James Grieve (pictured), 52, speaking over a satellite phone from Camp One on the world's highest peak said that the rescue effort was being hampered by storms  
 British climber Dan Mazur (pictured) had tweeted on Saturday 'massive earthquake just hit Everest. Basecamp severly damaged… Please pray for everyone'  
 Martin Gattuso, 38, from Warwickshire, has not been in touch with relatives since the quake struck  
 Jake Whyles (pictured), of Spalding, Lincolnshire, is said to be mentally exhausted after seeing a lot of bodies and collapsed buildings  
 Honeymooners Sam and Alex Chappatte were airlifted to safety from Base Camp One on EverestYoga student Susannah hasn't contacted her family and friends since she left for a trek into the remote valleys in the Langtang National Park on Friday.One of her fellow walkers - a youngster from South Africa - managed to send a message to his mum revealing his group is in desperate need of help.


RELATED ARTICLES

Previous
1
2
Next






EIGHT MILLION people have been hit by Nepal's earthquake, UN...



Trapped on Everest: Australian woman tells how she survived...



Saved! British newlyweds among last Everest climbers to...








Snap unhappy: Tourists and locals flock to ancient Nepalese...



Kathmandu brings out their dead: Nepal holds mass cremations...








Share this article
Share
44 shares



Susannah's sister Nina, 25, from Bath, Somerset, said: 'Someone has managed to text or something saying they are stuck in an area with 15 other trekkers.'Basically they have sent the coordinates but said in the message that some are injured and that they don't have any food or water and that they really need to be rescued.'They have said they need a helicopter to get out. All the roads around them are ruined and they can't get out.'We only found out five minutes ago and are frantically trying to work out a way of reaching her and getting her help.'Susannah - also known as Soozie - left home a month ago to take part in a yoga retreat and work at an ecological farm after saving up money by waitressing and working at the Bell pub in Walcot Street.She called Nina on Thursday to say she was planning to set off on a 20 day trek the next day and was due to stay in Nepal until June 20.One of her group managed to send an SOS message to his mother on Monday with their coordinates - 28.154815 and 85.398595.It also contained the names and emails of fellow trekkers' parents and the mother posted it on a forum used by the missing peoples' families.It was spotted by Susannah's mum Judy, 62, who made contact with the mother and got further details about her daughter's group's condition.  
 A rescue dog belonging to the group of ISAR Germany (International Search And Rescue) searches the rubble following Saturday's earthquake, in Kathmandu  
 Dogs sleep beside rubble in a street of Khokana, some seven miles south of Kathmandu  
 Temporary shelters in Kathmandu  following the 7.8 earthquake which struck the Himalayan nation on Saturday  
 Locals take snapshots with their cell phones at the historic Dharahara Tower, a city landmark that was almost completely destroyed by Saturday's earthquake




Nepal quake reduces town of Bhaktapur to a mass of rubble













But her family are worried because, while the other walkers seemingly gave their parents' email addresses, the message only contained Judy's name.Nina, a metal worker, added: 'We don't know why she is the only person that hasn't put an email address. Mum thinks she knew it.'It makes us wonder if she is one of the ones who are injured and she can't speak.'Basically we just want her out of there as soon as possible.'Tweeters are re-tweeting her location: '28.154815 long 85.398595 near bamboo village in desperate need of helicopter assts. Pls RT.'Jake Whyles, 24, of Spalding, Lincolnshire, meanwhile, who was feared to be missing after the earthquake has turned up safe. His mother Maria Whyles, 48, said: 'He has managed to Skype us to say he is OK. He is mentally exhausted after seeing a lot of bodies and collapsed buildings. 'It is a huge relief for us and his friends.' Jake, who works for a company which provides vegan food at music festivals, travelled to India last month on a backpacking trip before heading to Nepal. Mrs Whyles said that he was now flying home after cutting short his trip. Lee Tuddenham, 33, of South Creake, Norfolk, who was feared missing also contacted his family on Monday to say that he was safe. His sister Clare Tuddenham, 32, said: 'We were really worried because we knew he was in the area and he had not been in touch. 'But we have just had a message from him to say that he is OK. It is great news.' A graduate had a miracle escape from the Nepal earthquake after he pulled out of a trip to the doomed base camp at Mount Everest at the last minute - because he was ill.Lucky Tom Southgate, 23, was planning to head out to the mountain on a hiking trip but was kept behind with a suspected stomach bug. 
 
Fatalities: Dr Marisa Eve Girawong (left), 29, a medic on the base camp, and Google engineer Dan Fredinburg, 33, (right) were the first American identified fatalities in the Everest avalanche, which killed at least 18 climbers  
 Vietnamese American Vinh B Truong has confirmed as the fourth US citizen to be killed on Mount Everest at the time of Saturday's Nepal earthquakeHis family spent the weekend fearing the worst after news emerged that 18 climbers had been killed by an avalanche at Everest which was triggered by the huge earthquake.But they finally received a message from Tom on Monday saying he was safe and hadn't moved on to Everest before the disaster struck.Samuel Becket from Leicester has not been heard of since the disaster unfolded, with his father saying that all they could do was scour social media sites for news.Matt Carapiet, 23, from Maidstone, Kent, has also not been in touch with family or friends. His parents left a message for him on Google People Finder that said: 'Hi Matts, hope you are safe and well, contact us know as soon as you can. Mum and Dad x.'Sam and Alex Chappatte had been tweeting about their ordeal up on Everest Base Camp One, but were finally airlifted down to Base Camp on Tuesday, describing the aftermath as a 'bombsite'. The Foreign Office is investigating claims a British national was killed by the Nepalese earthquake, Philip Hammond has said.The as-yet unconfirmed report related to a Briton not living in this country, the Foreign Secretary said. Speaking in London, Mr Hammond said: 'We are urgently investigating unconfirmed reports of a non-UK resident British national having been killed and our teams on the ground will report back as soon as they have any further information on that.'He added: 'We have a C-17 loaded with British Army Gurkha engineers and equipment in the region. We also have a Department for International Development (DFID) chartered Boeing 767 loaded with rescue teams and supplies. They're both waiting for landing slots when the weather at Kathmandu permits. They will be in and operating as soon as possible.'In the meantime, we have already got some UK personnel in on other flights and there are 60 British personnel, search and rescue teams and other experts already on the ground delivering assistance.'The fourth American  to have died following Saturday's devastating earthquake has been confirmed as Vinh B Truong, who had been enjoying a hiking holiday when the tragedy happened.The Victnamese American from California was among the fatalities at Mount Everest's base camp, the State Department confirmed on Monday.American Google executive Dan Fredinburg, 33, was the first confirmed fatality on the mountain. New Jersey-born Dr Marisa Eve Girawong, 29, was also killed when ice and rock crushed the 18,000-foot-altitude base camp where she worked as a medic for Madison Mountaineering.  
 A search party sifts through rubble at the earthquake damaged Durbar Square in Kathmandu  
 Durbar Square in Kathmandu was left partially in ruins by the earthquake  
 Patan Durbar is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, but will now need to be completely rebuilt  
 Soldiers search through rubble of a destroyed building in KathmanduA third American, Tom Taplin, 61, who owned TET Films & Photography, was making a documentary when the earthquake hit.Taplin was working on a film about the community of climbers at base camp and had been there only a short time when the magnitude-7.8 quake struck, his wife, Cory Freyer, told The Associated Press on Monday.'His passions were adventure travel and extreme landscape types of films,' Freyer said in a telephone interview. The couple lived in Evergreen, Colorado, most of the year, she said.Freyer said Taplin was passionate about mountaineering and was on his fourth trip to Nepal.'He was very much a mountaineer,' she said. 'He incorporated his filming with his mountaineering.'Taplin did not screen his documentaries publicly, although his latest project about the base camp at Mount Everest might have been a candidate for film festivals, Freyer said.'That community and how it evolved over time was really what Tom wanted to create a film about,' Freyer said. Dozens more Americans are believed to be missing in the Himalayas.Tales of escape have emerged from survivors of the earthquake despite the difficulties with communication.   
   
 Dozens of climbers are stranded on Mount Everest awaiting helicopters after an avalanche blocked off all access points




Drone footage from April shows the scale of devastation in Nepal













Climber Alex Staniforth, 19, from Chester, said he was 'emotionally trashed' and 'very lucky to be alive' after being evacuated to base camp.Entire villages have been wiped out and more than 1.4 million people are in need of food and water in Nepal, according to the latest reports. The death toll in the worst earthquake to hit the country for more than 80 years has risen to more than 5,000 and thousands more are injured and homeless.According to the most up-to-date figures from the UN, eight million people in 39 districts have been affected.British and Irish medical staff, experts and volunteers have been dispatched to the worst-affected areas, with the RAF, firefighters from the UK International Search and Rescue Team, Gurkha engineers and medics from the Doctors Of The World charity among those involved.Saleh Saeed, chief executive of the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC), said a quake of this kind had been forecast to happen in the area for many years.He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme entire villages had been wiped out and, close to the earthquake's epicentre, whole villages had been completely destroyed.'Now we are seeing tens of thousands of homeless people sleeping in makeshift camps,' he said. 'Those who are lucky have got tents, others are now having to sleep in the open air, in the cold, in the wet.'  
 A rescue helicopter is shown at the Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal on Sunday  
 A person critically injured in the avalanche is carried on a stretcher to be evacuated out of Everest Base Camp  
 A rescue chopper prepares to land, carrying people from higher camps to Everest Base Camp in Nepal




Terrifying moment avalanche hits Everest base camp













Mr Saeed said that always after such disasters there was some degree of 'chaos and confusion' but he stressed aid was 'getting in' by road and plane, adding that over the next few days people would see an intense increased activity to make sure all those who need help are being reached.He said he expected the death toll to rise, adding: 'What we really need to do is focus on those who are still living and need the help - that's tens of thousands of people who have been made homeless, 7,000 people who have been injured.'Eighteen people died on Mount Everest after an avalanche swept through its Base Camp, and more climbers are stranded higher up the mountain.A horrifying video of an avalanche hitting Base Camp was taken by climber Jost Kobusch, who worked in the Special Forces in the German Mountain Army. He said he felt the ground shaking and saw people sprinting away from the cloud of snow.Dutch climber Eric Arnold described in a moving blog the horror of walking through Base Camp afterwards, which he described as a 'crash site'.He wrote: 'We walk through the base camp and see if we can help somewhere. We can not do anything. In the morning the weather is equally clear. At that time, 35 wounded by helicopter to Kathmandu transported. Seventeen people have sadly deceased by the disaster. The camps of Adventure Consultants and Summit Climb are particularly badly hit.  
 The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after the huge earthquake struck  
 A rescue helicopter at the Mount Everest south base camp  
 A C17 aircraft from 99 Sqn RAF Brize Norton prior to its take off for Kathmandu. A team of Gurkha engineers will fly out to Nepal on an RAF flight to join the aid efforts in the earthquake-stricken country'I see very personal stuff - a log book, shampoo, slippers, reading glasses, everything. It reminds me of the images of a crashed plane. BC is nothing more than a crash site at this time. Some deaths have a face, a cameraman who walked two days in our camp is no longer alive.'The Foreign Office said it had not received reports of any Britons being killed or injured but embassy staff have assisted 200 people.The DEC will make a televised appeal for public donations today, launched across all the major broadcasters and fronted by Absolutely Fabulous star and Gurkha campaigner Joanna Lumley. The appeal is due to be broadcast on BBC One at 5:55pm and 10:50pm, BBC Two at 8pm and ITV at 6:51pm.The UK has already pledged a £5 million package of support, including £3 million released under the Rapid Response Facility (RRF) to address immediate needs on the ground and £2 million to the British Red Cross.Aid workers on the ground have reported 'huge logistical difficulties' as road closures and communication problems have thwarted some efforts.Leigh Daynes, UK director of medical charity Doctors Of The World, said Nepal's health system was already vulnerable even before the earthquake, especially in rural areas.'Now hospitals are utterly incapacitated, infrastructure has been decimated and thousands of people are sleeping on the streets. With monsoon season only weeks away, this is a catastrophe of the highest order and demands an urgent medical response,' he said.'We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.'The 7.8-magnitude quake struck just before midday on Saturday, sending tremors through the Kathmandu Valley and the nearby city of Pokhara.Mike Adamson, chief executive of the British Red Cross, said while many newer buildings in the Kathmandu valley had survived, older ones had not been able to withstand the force of the shock.'As the death toll continues to rise, it is our absolute priority to continue the search and rescue operations and get aid to those left stranded,' he said.Disaster experts believe the earthquake will leave Nepal dependent on aid from countries such as the UK for years, and that recovery from the devastation could take a decade.Anyone who is caught up in the incident or worried about a family member should call the Foreign and Commonwealth Office on +44 (0) 207 008 0000. To donate, call 0370 60 60 900 or visit the website dec.org.uk.  





Share or comment on this article

























44shares














MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS

Previous
1
2
3
Next

 



Five-year-old begs his mum to buy homeless man dinner





Baseball fan caught on camera groping woman's breast





Teacher uses belt to break up classroom brawl





Hillary's motorcade hits 95 mph to get to dinner party on...





Peel garlic the easy way with this amazing life hack!





'Person of interest' in DC murders caught on camera





Royals fan filmed demanding fly ball back from little boy





Incredible moment paddle boarder encounters killer whale





Burly Phillies fan snatches home run ball from older woman





Hillary's mystery machines have a maroon little brother





Terrifying moment plane struggles to land due to high winds





Dolores Hart played Elvis Presley's love interest in 'Loving...





















Murdered CEO, wife, son, and maid were 'bound and tortured'...





EXCLUSIVE: Hillary hides from reporters with SECOND secret...





America's biggest ranch, which is larger than New York City,...





Touching moment five-year-old boy begged his mother to buy a...





The MANY mugshots of the Waco bikers: 170 gang members have...





Former Denver Broncos star Adrian Robinson Jr. dead aged 25...





Bristol Palin's wedding CALLED OFF: Sarah Palin announces...





Boston Marathon bomber Tsarnaev's enraged mother says...





Revealed: American doctor's first hand account of how he saw...





EXCLUSIVE PICTURES: Redmond O'Neal, druggie son of Farrah...





Senior staff quit charity foundation because of 'difficult'...





White wife of black NFL player says she was repeatedly...




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
Next

●
●
●


 















Comments (45)

                                	Share what you think
                                







Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated




 View all



The comments below have not been moderated.





 View all


                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.


Who is this week's top commenter?
Find out now







More top stories










Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search


























Like
DailyMail




Follow
MailOnline




Follow
DailyMail




+1
DailyMail







 
 
Femail Today







          What a comeback! Aishwarya Rai strikes a pose in stunning claret gown at Cannes Film Festival photocall for her first movie in five years
          









          Nicki Minaj throws shade at Tyga in 'Pervert 17' jersey while slim Beyonce shows off her bikini body for new Feeling Myself music video
          









          Bradley's golden girl Irina Shayk looks sensational in a metallic dress with thigh-high split at Sicario premiere in Cannes
          
          She stole the limelight
        








          Bethenny Frankel's 'divorce documents reveal she spent over $35K per month on toys, clothes, and holidays... and was FAR wealthier than Jason Hoppy'
          









          Mama June gets booed by The Doctors' studio audience during intervention for obese daughter Honey Boo Boo
          
          They returned to the CBS programme
        













          'I don't want to be 50 with a baby': Sofia Vergara's dilemma at 42 as she reveals Joe Manganiello wants children... amid frozen embryo row with her ex
          









          Emily Blunt leads the Cannes criticism after women are turned away from a red carpet event because they were not wearing high heels
          
          Star was disappointed
        








          From Modern Family's $1.5million mansion to Rosanne's modest $112,000 house: Here's what famous TV homes would be worth in the real world
          









          Married at First Sight star hits out at her groom for shying away from physical intimacy as the pair turn to therapy in an attempt to save their marriage
          









          'Why am I not raping you right now?' Bachelorette contestant Ryan McDill kicked off show after grabbing Kaitlyn Bristowe's bottom and being drunk
          












          Celebrity chef Sandra Lee undergoes double mastectomy for breast cancer after boyfriend NY Governor Andrew Cuomo walks her to the operating room
          









          'She liked me fat!': Chris Pratt reveals what wife Anna Faris thinks about his transformation from chubby funnyman to slim action hero
          
          Down to earth couple
        








          All that shimmers: Emily Blunt shows off her stunning figure in tight crystal studded dress at Cannes premiere of Sicario
          
          She glittered in gold
        








          AWKWARD! One Direction's Louis Tomlinson and Niall Horan pose with Taylor Swift and beau Calvin Harris - but there's no sign of Harry Styles...
          









          Dip it low: Cate Blanchett shows some cleavage in her low-cut black gown as she dazzles the Cannes premiere of Sicario
          
          Stunned in classic LBD
        








          Model Ashley Graham launches 'sexy and supportive' plus-size lingerie line inspired by Fifty Shades of Grey
          
          The bondage-inspired bras and underwear
        








          Tweeting from the stars! Rumer Willis gets A-list support as Gwyneth, Miley, Ashton, and Courtney Love all urge fans to vote
          
          She has celebrity fans
        








          Patricia Arquette, 47, is effortlessly elegant in black kaftan dress as she attends CBS Summer Soiree 
          
          The 47-year-old actress was in Hollywood
        








          Riddle me this! Jim Carrey spotted hand-in-hand with new mystery woman in New York as he continues to grow out his bushy beard
          









          Is it her Millionaire Match? Dina Lohan, 52, dating 'tech entrepreneur' Kevin Jensen, 49, ... who also calls himself a 'part-time farmer'
          












          NASCAR driver Kyle Busch and his wife welcome their first child - a son named Brexton - after long public journey with IVF
          
          Baby weighed 7lbs 10oz
        








          'You can do an awful lot down there': Bruce Jenner discusses gender reassignment surgery with daughters
          
          The 65-year-old was frank about surgery
        








          Styles stalker! One Direction star's toddler doppelganger turns into overnight social media celebrity with lookalike photos of himself and Harry Styles
          









          'I believe in having sex': Gwyneth Paltrow, 42, divulges her fitness secrets... and reveals she's more comfortable in a bikini now than 20 years ago
          









          EXCLUSIVE PICTURES: Redmond O'Neal, the druggie son of Farrah Fawcett appears shockingly thin as a judge has ordered a warrant for his arrest
          









          Now that's one hot couple! Zac Efron and Blurred Lines model Emily Ratajkowski hook up in new trailer for DJ drama We Are Your Friends
          









          EXCLUSIVE: 'Us little guys fight back.' Beleaguered ABC News anchor George Stephanopoulus was a fighter (and a rocker) back in high school 
          









          In a celebratory mood! Ariel Winter, 17, glows alongside TV mom Julie Bowen at Modern Family event just days after being awarded emancipation
          









          Better Man for Letterman by Vedder, man! Pearl Jam frontman plays grunge anthem for Late Show host's final week
          
          It's the end of an era
        








          Jane Fonda discusses being a 'fashion icon' at 77 and recalls her lusty liplocks with Warren Beatty and Robert Redford
          
          Still sexy in her seventies
        








          Meshy night out! Joe Simpson, 57, wears netted and leather ensemble as he leaves the club Greystone Manor in LA
          
          Jessica Simpson's dad
        








          'If you want to go to Australia this is what you have to do': Hugh Jackman teaches Jimmy Fallon a very important tradition - how to eat Vegemite on toast
          









          Doting father Ashton Kutcher holds baby daughter Wyatt close to his chest as he enjoys family day out with wife Mila Kunis and her parents
          









          'Study session!': Alec and Hilaria Baldwin leave little Carmen behind as they enjoy a working breakfast at a cafe near their NYC home
          









          Robin Thicke, 38, and girlfriend April Love Geary, 20, touch down in France as they prepare to join in the fun and festivities at Cannes Film Festival
          









          Jennifer Lopez, 45, shows off her curves as she models new collection for Kohl's... after revealing she would like to have 'four or five more kids'
          









          Former glamour model says her daughter, six, wants to follow in her footsteps and become a topless pin-up (and she thinks the little girl will be 'great')
          









          Bruce reveals he stole clothes from Kim and Kris... as Mrs West rebuffs Jenner's attempt to call her his stylist
          
          Amid gender transition
        








          'I had a baby!': Claire Coffee and Chris Thile introduce their son to the world in a sweet Instagram snap... as she reminds fans to watch Grimm
          









          Woman whose boyfriend convinced her to have THREE boob jobs admits she wouldn't have had them if he hadn't paid (but says they are 'empowering')
          









          Kelly Brook keeps abreast of the Cannes Film Festival  as she steps out in cleavage-enhancing top and figure-hugging hotpants
          
          TV series was canned
        








          'Yes, I have gained weight': Kylie Jenner responds to body-shamers on Instagram after posting a bathing suit photo
          
          Hit back at her critics
        








          In this together! Tom Brady seen with Gisele Bundchen and daughter Vivian for the first time since deflategate game ban as they prepare to jet out of the Bahamas 
          









          Strutting with the stars! Demi Moore, 52, walks the studio lot in sexy thigh-high suede boots as she cheers on daughter Rumer
          
          Still fabulous in her fifties
        








          'I'm still your friend': Kendall Jenner shares throwback photo of father Bruce with supportive message after his heart-wrenching special
          









          'I don't want Kylie to emotionally go away': Bruce Jenner worries as youngest daughter struggles with his transition during family ski trip in KUWTK 
          









          Kris Jenner left sobbing on her own as she tells ex Bruce 'you lied to me the longest' over his transition to be a woman on KUWTK
          
          It was a raw exchange
        








          EXCLUSIVE: 'She saw herself on the wall and came in!' Kate Moss surprised gallery owners in Toronto after spotting her OWN portrait through window
          









          FIRST LOOK: Dylan O'Brien discovers he's still a prisoner after escaping the Glade in the post-apocalyptic trailer for Maze Runner: Scorch Trials
          









          Rumer Willis earns two perfect scores and brings her famous parents Bruce and Demi to tears in Dancing With The Stars finals
          
          They're proud parents
        








          Teri Hatcher keeps it casual in a baggy sweater and skinny jeans as she and her lookalike daughter Emerson enjoy a day out
          
          Ladies went to market
        








          Bristol Palin pictured in Alaska without her engagement ring after calling off her wedding to Marine FIVE DAYS before ceremony amid 'secret wife' claims
          









          Tom Hanks looks besotted with wife Rita Wilson as they enjoy a cosy city stroll after it's revealed she is cancer free
          
          Couple were in New York
        








          Self-confessed 'gender bender' left with 'deformed' nipples after having breast implants removed asks surgeons for new pecs so she can look male or female
          









          'So happy!': Sofia Vergara, 42, is joined by fiancé Joe Manganiello as she attends college graduation of son Manolo, 22
          
          She's a proud mom
        








          Missing your leading lady? Bradley Cooper arrives for The Elephant Man's final London rehearsals while new girlfriend Irina Shayk parties in Cannes
          









          'It was hard carrying 200lbs on my frame': Entourage's Jerry Ferrara reveals he was warned by doctors to lose weight
          
          He plays Turtle in series
        








          Duchess of Cornwall attempts a Gaelic phrase during Irish school visit... but delighted locals say the 'pitch-perfect' Queen speaks it better
          









          Michelle Rodriguez looks worse for wear after partying the night away at Chopard's Cannes bash  
          
          Actress went wild in the French Riviera
        








          Sienna Miller oozes class in understated blue ensemble as she enjoys rare day without daughter Marlowe in Cannes
          
          American Sniper star
        








          'I think it's powerful': Laverne Cox praises Bruce Jenner for 'speaking the truth' in his two-part KUWTK special
          
          She's an LGBT advocate
        








          Miley Cyrus steps out in a see-through blouse and satin mini after crying her way through her performance of new song dedicated to her dead pet blowfish
          









          Emily Blunt wows in an unusual patterned dress at Cannes photocall... as she greets newly engaged co-star Josh Brolin with a hug 
          
          Joined by A-listers
        








          No bachelor blues here! Newly-single Cody Simpson enjoys late night out with the boys following breakup with model Gigi Hadid
          
          He's back on the market
        








          'I love being 40... it's comfortable': Drew Barrymore couldn't be happier as she FINALLY feels her age
          
          She's a mother-of-two and successful actress
        








          Cara Delevingne displays her abs in a bold crop top as she makes her first appearance in Cannes with girlfriend St. Vincent
          









          But can he play anything by Queen? Prince William reveals hidden talent for bass guitar... and has already been 'signed up' by '80s pop group Aswad
          









          Mary J Blige shows off her slimmer figure as she models denim shorts and a plunging blouse while enjoying a stroll in Cannes  
          
          Showed off her pins
        








          'You've worn me out!' Victoria Beckham collapses on to a lounge chair as she bids goodbye to Singapore following whirlwind trip
          
          Busy mom of four
        








          Out of hiding! Twilight vet Taylor Lautner is seen exiting restaurant with leather-clad male friend months after split from Marie Avgeropoulos
          









          'We're in the Kardashian era and it's slightly scary': Naomi Watts talks about the world's most famous reality TV stars as she stuns in plunging dress
          









          Tamara Ecclestone flashes her bikini in a plunging boho dress as she enjoys a family day out in Cannes
          
          Alongside her husband and daughter
        








          Bonding with a blonde: Tom Cruise, 52, puts on an animated display as he chats up his pretty Mena co-star Sarah Wright, 31, on Atlanta set
          









          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Bethenny Frankel is seen holding hands with a mystery man just weeks after Michael Cerussi split
          
          Back in love again?
        








          Kendall Jenner is pictured texting on her phone while behind the wheel of her car in Beverly Hills
          
          Texting behind the wheel is illegal
        








          George Clooney keeps it cool in a denim shirt and leather jacket as he pulls animated faces at Tomorrowland press call in Spain
          
          He's on a promo tour
        








          Before he was famous! George Clooney is almost unrecognizable as a 28-year-old unknown actor in 1989 with long curly hair and side-burns
          









          Friendly exes Jennifer Lawrence and Nicholas Hoult make low-key arrivals at Montreal airport... as they prepare to start filming X-Men: Apocalypse in Canada
          









          'People just looked right through me': Chris Pratt recalls how actors used to hit on wife Anna Faris before he became famous too
          
          Who's laughing now?
        








          It's official... Rebel Wilson is 35! Business records reveal actress' REAL age after it was previously thought she was 29
          
          Her true age is revealed
        








          Hailey Baldwin highlights her model figure in a plunging silver gown as she attends glamorous Cannes Film Festival bash
          









          Pregnant Brooklyn Decker dazzles in a fitted white dress as she swaps baby prep for a light-hearted appearance on Watch What Happens Live
          









          Emma Watson oozes effortless style as she hides her willowy frame beneath off-duty layers and roll leg trousers
          
          Harry Potter actress was out in London
        








          'I'm in a good place': Mariah Carey talks about the next chapter of her life and says she's 'been through so much in the last five years'
          









          Sexy Scorpion star Katharine McPhee flashes her toned stomach in a daring dress slashed to the thigh at CBS event
          
          Sizzled in scarlet
        








          Who Jackman? Hugh is barely recognizable as he swaps his pearly whites for some wonky brown rotten teeth for his role as Blackbeard in new film Pan
          









          That's one way to fool them! Victoria Beckham pretends to be a mannequin on her fun-filled business trip to Singapore
          
          Busy mother-of-four
        








          Nina Agdal shows off her bronzed legs in a simple white playsuit the morning after the Inside Out premiere in Cannes
          
          She's a 23-year-old swimsuit model 
        








          That's one way to chill out! Lindsay Lohan takes freezing cold ice bath in a bikini to speed up her metabolism
          
          The 28-year-old is not afraid of getting cold
        








          Well, he does play heroes! Smouldering Hunger Games hunk Liam Hemsworth unveiled as the first celebrity face of Diesel scent Only The Brave
          









          Not a gem out of place! Paris Hilton checks on her fashion details as she protects her modesty with a clever crystal dress design
          
          Socialite was in Cannes
        








          We're still standing! Sir Elton John joins former classmates at school reunion... 57 years after they all first met
          
          The 68-year-old had a nostalgia-filled trip
        








          Nicole Scherzinger accentuates her shape in a fishtail gown as she puts on a glittering display at the Chopard party in Cannes
          
          Stole the show in France
        








          Kourtney Kardashian enjoys a relaxed date night with Scott Disick after TV special about Bruce Jenner's transition airs
          
          Star looked relieved 
        








          Jessica Lowndes shows some skin in a seriously plunging white dress as she continues to party at Cannes Film Festival
          
          All white on the night
        








          Rita Wilson and Tom Hanks grin after it's revealed she is cancer free... as they stop by final week of Late Show With David Letterman
          
          Survived breast cancer
        








          Bradley Cooper's new love Irina Shayk channels Marilyn Monroe in a plunging white halterneck jumpsuit as she flies solo at Cannes
          









          Married couple lose 168lbs after being left red faced when they accidentally flashed hotel guests in hot tub because they were too fat for dressing gowns
          









          Kesha shows off bright green hair in a dramatic makeover after admitting she's embracing a new 'raw and real' look
          
          Hair-raising new look
        








          Newly-single Calum Best shows off his impressive physique as he strips down to black boxers for calendar shoot
          
          George Best's son
        








          Harry Styles sports his trademark up-do as he steps out with a coffee after Billboard Music Awards 
          
          The musician was seen with a man bun
        








          How to contour like Kim Kardashian: Binky Felstead reveals how she achieves amazing sculpted cheekbones using the latest make-up trend
          









          Date night! Jennifer Connelly and husband Paul Bettany make for a stylish pair at a special screening of her film Aloft
          
          Pair looked content
        








          'We've been infantalized by our own taste': Simon Pegg slams 'childish' superhero movies for 'dumbing down' the film industry
          









          Make-up free Emma Stone reveals her black bra under a semi-sheer T-shirt as she arrives at Los Angeles airport 
          
          Turned heads at the terminal 
        








          Robert Pattinson joins Chloe Sevigny and Natasha Lyonne at  Heaven Knows What screening... as FKA twigs performs in concert
          









          Three's a charm! The Voice finalists perform a trio of songs as voting kicks off to determine season eight champion
          
          They're the final four competitors 
        








          Making a splash! James Van Der Beek takes his kids on a water ride at Disneyland while Kelly Ripa larks about with a traffic cone
          
          Show has been axed 
        








          'I'm getting legal advice': Blake Fielder-Civil sensationally claims Amy Winehouse's signature was FORGED on their divorce papers
          









          Sea-ing double! Cara Delevingne turns ethereal goddess to play TWO mermaids in a new trailer for fantasy film Pan
          
          Making waves in film
        








          Walking the boards! Taye Diggs returns to Broadway to replace Darren Criss in lead role of musical Hedwig And The Angry Inch
          
          New direction for hunk
        








          'Boy or girl? Or burrito?': Brandon Jenner's wife Leah wears white lingerie while joking about her growing baby bump in Instagram photo
          









          'It's family love': Kris Jenner cries in new promo for heart-wrenching Keeping Up With The Kardashians: About Bruce special
          
          Testing times for family
        








          Rachel Bilson steps out for the first time after reports ex Adam Brody is having a baby
          
          For three years they were the ideal couple for teens everywhere
        








          Kelly Brook turns on the glamour as she puts on a busty display in a low-cut red and gold fishtail gown at Cannes Film Festival Chopard bash 
          









          Cara Santana's laid-back style is spot on as she steps out for some shopping in ripped skinny jeans 
          
          The 31-year-old actress was in West Hollywood
        








          Hangin' Tough! New Kids On The Block's Donnie Wahlberg, Danny Wood and Joey McIntyre show off their impressive six packs
          
          Fit in their forties
        








          Don't smudge them! Talon-ted actress Elle Fanning leaves the salon with wet nails as she steps out in workout gear
          
          She's nailed it
        








          Orange Is The NEW Black star Taylor Schilling trades prison jumpsuit for chic white mini-dress as she showcases slim legs at Women's Rights Awards
          









          Glam sisters Jessica and Ashley Hart make the most of finally being in the same country as each other... and are joined at the hip at Qantas event
          









          Slipping into something less comfortable! Rebel Wilson wears a leather dress as Dakota Johnson sports a mini-skirt on How To Be Single set
          









          Sexy Entourage! Adrian Grenier relaxes on the beach with a bevy of beautiful women after enjoying a swim in Miami
          
          He's currently single
        








          No Scandal here! Kerry Washington and Christina MIlian cover up in modest outfits at Disney International Upfronts
          
          38-year-old star stunned
        








          Wild thing! Mariah Carey slips into a silver leopard print mini-dress for Jimmy Kimmel Live performance... as her four-year-old twins join her on stage
          









          Solid as a rock! Sting and wife Trudie Styler step out to support off-Broadway theater at the Obie Awards in NYC
          
          They've been together for over 20 years
        








          Historic handshake for peace: Prince Charles  face to face with Gerry Adams for the first time during visit to Ireland after Sinn Fein leader requested to meet
          









          'I was struck by the poetry of it': Jon Hamm talks about the ending of his hit series Mad Men, where his character Don Draper finally has clarity
          
          Show came to an end
        








          'The last 10-15 pounds of baby weight is a B****H': Alyssa Milano talks body struggles eight months after welcoming second child
          
          Her honest account
        



















 
 
DON'T MISS







          Raising the barre! New mother Coco Rocha, 26, and Sigourney Weaver, 65, wow in jewel toned gowns at American Ballet Theater Gala
          
          Red carpet stunners
        








          Beyonce smiles as she leaves New York club after husband Jay Z's attack on critics of their Tidal streaming service
          
          Beyonce looked like one satisfied customer 
        








          Tina Fey looks fantastic at 45 as she celebrates her birthday with a charity comedy performance
          
          Hit the stage to mark the milestone
        








          Casual commando! Rosario Dawson dresses down in khaki and citrus for a Manhattan stroll
          
          Stars treat stepping outside as a show
        








          Wild women! Taylor Swift wears a boa and wraps a man in chains with the help of Hailee Steinfeld after the Billboard Music Awards
          
          25-year-old singer 
        








          Rihanna  dresses down in baggy jeans... as her entire glamorous Dior campaign is released
          
          The 27-year-old also wore a black hat and a matching jacket
        








          Chris Brown and Nicki Minaj lead the pack with six BET Awards nominations each ahead of next month's ceremony
          
          They're feeling hopeful
        








          Day off from the kids! Elsa Pataky enjoys a pamper session in London without husband Chris Hemsworth and their brood of three
          
          Actress had down time
        








          New digs! Robin Thicke leaves the city behind and buys a multi-million dollar compound in Malibu
          
          The 38-year-old singer  is moving on
        








          Kiss Or Kill? Margot Robbie is savagely hit by Jared Leto's The Joker before pair share a passionate embrace as they film new scenes for Suicide Squad
          









          New film about the final days of Tupac Shakur's life seeking $300,000 in online crowd-funding campaign
          
          About rapper and  his final days 
        








          A model friendship: Michelle Rodriguez enjoys a lazy day in Cannes with new BFF Toni Garrn 
          
          Move over Taylor Swift and Karlie Kloss
        








          George Stephanopoulos' $105m contract with ABC revealed amid questions over his $75k donation to the Clintons
          
          Called into question
        








          That was close! Taylor Swift has a near miss when a stunt on her Bad Blood video goes horribly wrong
          
          The 25-year-old dubbed her accident a '#stuntfail' 
        








          'He's all boy with a really tender heart!': Sandra Bullock tells Ellen DeGeneres about the man in her life, son Louis
          
          Actress and mom is 50
        








          Her sanctuary! Emotional Khloe Kardashian makes another dash to the gym... after Bruce Jenner special aired about gender transition
          









          'It's baby Seewald!': Jessa Duggar shares image of her bump and notes she's at '16 weeks and 1 day'... is due on her first wedding anniversary
          









          Lean on me! Anne Hathaway is chic in embroidered wrap as she nuzzles up to husband Adam Shulman during loved-up NYC stroll
          









          Ben Affleck's family shame revealed in historical documents which show how the actor's great-great-great grandfather came to own 24 slaves
          









          Mischa Barton gets set to make a TV comeback as she lands role in  series Recovery Road
          
          Show is based on the young adult novels by Blake Nelson
        








          Ready for battle! Chris Evans suits up as Captain America to take on Frank Grillo's villain Crossbones while filming Civil War
          
          Donned his uniform 
        








          Now she's just showing off! Juliette Lewis, 41, flaunts her bikini body in new snap days after flashing abs and guns in gym photo
          
          Used to date Brad Pitt
        








          At home with Chris Pratt and Anna Faris: Couple share sweet snaps of their 'happy life' with son Jack 
          
          The actors are loving parenthood
        








          Cheeky chick! Gwyneth Paltrow, 42, wears shorts so short they show off her bottom as she steps out for lunch in Venice Beach
          
          Works hard for her figure
        








          Iggy Azalea's jaw- dropping 'plastic surgery' transformation in pictures:  Before and after slider shows the rapper's nose and chin have changed 
          









          Amanda Seyfried reveals she sought counseling for anxiety after THAT 'drunk' interview with David Letterman 
          
          Dealt with her demons
        








          Juggling act! Jennifer Garner takes her three kids (one in sleepwear) out on same day it's announced she'll launch children's craft line
          
          Tiring times for the star
        








          New OITNB star Ruby Rose makes a bold statement using her T-shirt she strolls around LA looking pensive
          
          Australian star in LA
        








          Uma Thurman bares her cleavage in a plunging gown while Adriana Lima flashes legs in a thigh-high slit dress as they hit  glamorous Cannes party
          









          Bill O'Reilly forced to deny accusations he physically assaulted his ex-wife prior to 2010 split by dragging her 'down a staircase by the neck'
          









          Fashion battle! Eva Longoria looks ready for the arena in her thigh-high gladiator sandals as she slips into a LBD at Cannes 
          
          Star looks fab at 40
        








          'She is the girl of the moment': Karl Lagerfeld praises Kendall Jenner as the pair star in behind-the-scenes clip from his brand's latest eyewear campaign
          









          Mario Balotelli sparks rumors of a rekindled romance with ex-fiancée Fanny Neguesha as they're spotted together in Milan 
          









          Lena Dunham's artist mother Laurie Simmons captures portraits of models with eerily-detailed eyes and lashes painted on closed eyelids
          









          Bristol Palin's wedding CALLED OFF: Sarah Palin announces cancelled nuptials days after ex-Marine groom's 'secret ex-wife was revealed'
          









          One's still got it! As he flirts outrageously at 93, friends say Prince Philip's bond with a blonde aristocrat keeps him young. But what DOES the Queen think? 
          









          Bi-costal baby! Lara Bingle covers up her post-pregnancy figure in a long coat and jeans as she and Sam Worthington introduce their  new baby to NYC
          









          Third time's the charm! Josh Brolin engaged to his former assistant-turned-girlfriend Kathryn Boyd
          
          Was married to Diane Lane for eight years
        








          FIRST LOOK: Jared Leto's full Joker costume is revealed on set of Suicide Squad... and he DOES have those tattoos
          
          He slipped into character
        








          Kourtney Kardashian is somber at the park with Mason and Penelope ahead of Bruce Jenner special where she says she doesn't want to tell kids about transition
          









          EXCLUSIVE: From a Russian mining town to love with Bradley Cooper - how Irina Shayk was too poor for heels & had an 'affair' with a sugar daddy before her fame
          









          Ireland Baldwin gets a kiss on her naked shoulder by a mystery man in Malibu a month after split from girlfriend Angel Haze and rehab visit
          









          Eva Longoria goes bare under a daring silver sheer dress as she steps out for the Cannes premiere of Inside Out
          
          Eva's red carpet look
        








          Baby news! Gossip Girl star Leighton Meester and Adam Brody 'expecting their first child together'
          
          The couple secretly wed last year
        








          The doomed love behind Cate Blanchett's new film: The bisexual novelist who has a chance encounter with a socialite at Bloomingdale's in 1948
          









          Pamela Anderson, 47, strips naked again for Peta... as she recreates Psycho shower scene to campaign against meat trade's water waste
          
          Inspired by Hitchcock
        








          Champion skier Bode Miller's wife gives birth to a son - his third baby by a third woman
          
          His wife and the new mom is volleyball player Morgan Beck
        








          9021-Ooh! Jessica Lowndes shows off her enviably toned frame in a turquoise bikini as she soaks up the sunshine in Cannes
          
          In the South of France
        








          She's worth it! Andie MacDowell, 57, shows some sideboob in daring plunging dress at Cannes premiere of Inside Out
          
          Stole the limelight in red
        








          Curtis Stone juggles work with daddy duties on set... While his mini-me son Hudson shows off a hilarious cooking pun emblazoned T-shirt
          









          EXCLUSIVE: How the Patriots' Rob Gronkowski partied like a rock star at his Vegas birthday celebration - and reveals his new Tinder dating strategy
          









          Glamour gone wrong! Neon suits, giant puffball skirts and a leather TROUSER dress... the worst dressed stars on the weekend's red carpet at Cannes 
          









          Terrific trio: Lingerie models Sara Sampaio, Lily Donaldson and Nina Agdal light up the red carpet at Inside Out premiere in Cannes
          
          Victoria's Secret models
        








          Couldn't Carey less! Jennifer Lopez caught texting throughout Mariah's performance at the Billboard Awards (as they continue their long-standing feud)
          









          A smiling Rita Ora silences speculation of a split from Ricky Hil as she jets from Las Vegas to London with her boyfriend in tow
          
           24-year-old singer 
        








          Caped crusader Jaden Smith dresses in custom white Batman suit as he coordinates with his prom date
          
          Will Smith's son loves to dress up
        








          Ouch! Mariah Carey slams the door on Nick Cannon 'lookalike' in feisty new video for Infinity (rumored to be about her divorce)
          
          Inspired by her own life
        








          Nate Berkus and husband Jeremiah Brent share first photo of newborn daughter Poppy on Instagram
          
          Welcomed their baby girl via surrogate 
        








          The newest Mouseketeer! Christina Aguilera shares photos of her daughter Summer Rain's first trip to Disneyland
          
          Even wore a pair of ears









          Royal seal of approval! The Queen says Prince Harry should be 'very proud' of his garden at The Chelsea Flower Show... after her grandson was 'nervous' 
          









          'I'm actually 100': Rebel Wilson tries to laugh off claims she lied about being 29 ...as she films new movie with Dakota Johnson in NYC
          
          Allegedly she's 36
        








          Rihanna makes her own style rules by wearing a white gown with streetwear sneakers and cap on night out in NYC
          
          She's the face of Dior
        








          Bonjour Cannes! Kelly Brook makes a chic arrival in the French Riviera in a smart dress suit after jetting in from Turkey
          
          TV show was canned
        








          'Tough job but someone has to do it!' Mother-of-two Doutzen Kroes shows off her INCREDIBLE bikini body as she soaks up the sunshine in Cannes 
          









          Chris Pine plants a kiss on new reality TV star girlfriend Vail Bloom as they enjoy a romantic lunch date in the sunshine
          
          Star Trek heartthrob
        








          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Pets win prizes at Charles's stately home 
          
          Prince Charles and Camilla are to hold their first ever dog show
        








          Now that's animal magnetism! Ryan Reynolds plants a kiss on giraffe's nose during safari park visit
          
          Blake Lively's husband is an animal lover
        








          'You stole my outfit?' Kim Kardashian reacts in shock as Bruce Jenner confesses to wearing her dresses on KUWTK
          
          Bruce is transitioning
        








          Former Spice Girl Geri Halliwell shows off her toned stomach in leopard print bikini as she honeymoons in Cannes with Christian Horner
          









          VIDEO EXCLUSIVE: Ed Sheeran leans in for a kiss with mystery woman on night out in Las Vegas with Niall Horan and Calvin Harris
          
          Romance in the club
        








          Has she got a stage age? Rebel Wilson's former classmate claims the actress is actually 36 NOT 29... and was  known by a different name
          









          Pictured: The Big Sur retreat with $7,000 spiritual workshops on which Mad Men based its final scenes
          
          The spot where Draper goes soul-searching
        








          'We knew Bruce was a cross-dresser': Khloe Kardashian delivers shocking information during About Bruce special as sister Kendall sobs
          









          Pot-US! Snoop Dogg reveals he was high when he visited President Obama at the White House... and he got a staff member stoned too
          









          A family affair! Zara and Peter Phillips visit London's Flower Show... as their cousin Prince Harry flies in from New Zealand to see his Africa-inspired garden  
          









          Now YOU can dress like Kendall Jenner! Balmain designer Olivier Rousteing (and the model's BFF) to release fall clothing line with H&M
          









          'You've been nothing but nasty and rude': Stephanie Pratt lays into best friend Lucy Watson on UK reality show Made In Chelsea as their feud continues
          









          MAD MEN SPOILER ALERT: Don Draper's fate is finally revealed as the curtain falls on hit show after eight years
          
          He had one last big slogan in him
        








          Kendall and Kylie Jenner get booed at Billboard Music Awards before introducing brother-in-law Kanye West's very censored closing performance 
          









          Dissed? Giuliana Rancic has an awkward moment on live TV when Kendall Jenner refuses to air kiss her at the Billboard Music Awards in Las Vegas 
          









          'We won't be apart for more than a week': George Clooney reveals promise he has made to his wife to ensure future happiness
          
          Making marriage work
        








          Former Denver Broncos star Adrian Robinson Jr. dead aged just 25 after committing suicide by hanging
          
          Robinson Jr. was a standout linebacker 
        








          George Clooney rocks a leather jacket and jeans as co-star Britt Robertson dazzles in a cute checkered dress during London press call for Tomorrowland
          









          Game, set, match! Ivanka Trump gives her daughter Arabella a tennis lesson - while one-year-old Joseph tries desperately to get in on the action
          









          House Of Cards star Robin Wright parades her toned legs in short-shorts on shopping trip
          
          Last month she celebrated her 49th birthday
        








          The final countdown! Rumer Willis heads into last ever rehearsal ahead of Dancing With The Stars finale... as eliminated contestants return
          









          Are you dating him now?' Ellen teases Mariah Carey about her friendship with model-turned-Chippendale Tyson Beckford
          
          Sought after male model
        








          That's paternity leave over, then! Prince William resumes royal duties with wildlife experts in Switzerland... as Kate stays at home with their kids
          









          Kisses from her man! Taylor Swift flashes plenty of flesh in low-cut jumpsuit before getting close to Calvin Harris at Billboard Music Awards
          
          Not coy about romance
        








          MAD MEN SPOILER ALERT: How 'I'd Like to Buy the World a Coke' ad featured in masterful Mad Men finale was dreamed up by Don Draper-esque executive
          









          Chest is best! Jennifer Lopez, Taylor Swift, Chrissy Teigen, and Mariah Carey all showcase their ample charms for the Billboard Music Awards
          









          Mellow yellow! Sienna Miller dons pretty sundress and straw hat as she enjoys outing with daughter Marlowe in Cannes
          
          33-year-old actress
        








          Mom's night out! Molly Sims looks sexy and chic in all-black ensemble as she parties at a Samsung event in West Hollywood
          
          She has her figure back
        








          EXCLUSIVE: Stephanie Pratt admits feud with BFF Lucy Watson has got 'nasty'... as boyfriend Josh Shepherd reveals wedding bells are on the horizon
          









          Grandaddy cool! Mick Jagger takes his daughter Karis and her two children for a shopping trip in Beverly Hills
          
          The rocker is now 71
        








          Taylor Swift steals the show at Billboard Music Awards... taking home EIGHT gongs and debuting her star-studded music video Bad Blood
          









          Leather-clad red-head Taylor Swift is backed up by bazooka-toting Gigi Hadid as she confronts Selena Gomez in racy star-studded Bad Blood music video
          









          Comedy duo Amy Poehler and Mindy Kaling are glamorous in Cannes as they promote Pixar film Inside Out
          
          The comedy duo laughed and joked 
        








          Her favorite Craft! Neve Campbell dotes on her cute son Caspian as the pair wear coordinating outfits to the Farmers Market
          
          Party of Five actress
        








          'She looked really beautiful': Kim Kardashian claims she has seen Bruce  as a woman... and reveals Mr Jenner has a new name
          
          Bruce has family support
        








          'Reliving this is harder than I imagined': Kim and Khloe Kardashian react on Twitter after emotional KUWTK About Bruce special airs
          
          Bruce is transitioning
        








          Proud papa! Chris Brown dotes over daughter Royalty as he takes his tot on the red carpet at Billboard Music Awards
          
          Showed his softer side
        








          La Da Dee! Newly-single Cody Simpson is swarmed by female admirers as he enjoys a beer on the beach in Barcelona following split with Gigi Hadid
          









          Nigella Lawson confirms she will read out this year's Eurovision Song Contest results.... after her American TV show gets the axe
          









          Mad Men ends in triumph as fans take to Twitter to hail finale as 'pure genius'
          
          Fans flocked to social media to praise last episode of 8 year series
        








          Power couple Jay Z and Beyoncé 'wired tens of thousands of dollars in bail money' to cover protesters in Baltimore and Ferguson
          
          Biographer claims
        








          Fans furious after ABC censors Kanye West's Billboard performance due to offensive language, with almost a full minute being broadcast in SILENCE
          









          Irina Shayk makes a stylish arrival in tight black skirt and satin blazer as she touches down in Cannes... while Adriana Lima covers up in a tailored jacket 
          









          Dominatrix diva! Britney Spears struts in a sheer catsuit with latex boots as she performs Pretty Girls with busty Iggy Azalea at the Billboard Awards
          









          Jennifer Lopez slips into a flirty playsuit as she joins Nick Jonas and his girlfriend Olivia Culpo at the Billboard Music Awards after-party
          









          Scarlett Johansson slips into skin-tight jeans as she gets stuck into action scenes alongside her body double on Captain America: Civil War set 
          









          Woman who was born a man is inspired by Princess Diana to launch the UK's first transgender beauty pageant
          
          Became a woman at 18
        








          Steve Irwin's father reveals his devastation over broken pact of silence around the Crocodile Hunter's death after cameraman detailed final moments
          









          Rita Ora puts on a VERY daring display in a deeply plunging cutaway gown with thigh-high slit as she hints at split from Ricky Hil at Billboard Music Awards
          









          Hey sweet thing! Justin Bieber and model Jayde Pierce stroll through a Beverly Hills park while cooling down with snow cones
          
          Writing a breakup album
        








          Jay Z slams Google, YouTube, Spotify, the police, and hypocrites who buy iPhones and Nikes in blistering freestyle defense of Tidal during show
          









          Jennifer Lopez, 45, displays plenty of cleavage in a daring gown at the Billboard Awards... and toyboy beau Casper Smart, 28, looks rather impressed
          










 
 
Today's headlines


 
 
Most Read









Columbia University student takes her rape-protest mattress to graduation because the student she accuses of...





EXCLUSIVE: Revealed - the 'party-hard' multimillionaire 'breastaurant' owners who ignored police warnings...





Three bikers 'involved in Waco gun battle' are mistakenly RELEASED from jail as authorities name nine gang...





'I feared for my life': Father weeps as he relives 'horrifying' moment biker gang attacked him, his wife and...





Pictured: The moment lone cop kept at least seven gang members on the ground during shoot-out as it emerges...





Court battle over four-year-old boy's circumcision continues after mother arrested for going on the run with...





CIA officer went 'under the radar' in Iran while six of his colleagues were rescued in daring mission...





Men FAKE working hard in the office, but still get promoted - and women should do the same to get ahead,...





Iowa mom who was stranded in Hong Kong after premature birth is finally set to return home - as well-wishers...





Revealed: American doctor's first hand account of how he saw Dachau's SS guards being tortured and shot dead...





KFC bringing back Colonel Sanders for new ad campaign with SNL star Darrell Hammond as iconic chicken...





No bananas please, we're vegetarian! The foods you think are safe to eat but actually contain SECRET animal...





Man who shot at George Zimmerman was 'fixated' on him and had a history of mental illness





Man wrongly imprisoned for nearly 40 years sues city of Cleveland and police officers 'who helped frame him'





From Modern Family's $1.5million mansion to Rosanne's modest $112,000 house: Here's what famous TV homes...





Robert Kraft announces New England Patriots will NOT appeal Deflategate decision and team will 'reluctantly'...





Kraft defends quarterback Brady in deflategate scandal: 'I've known Tommy 16 years, almost half his life....





Warren Sapp avoids jail after solicitation charge for Super Bowl night arrest is dropped and ex-NFL star...





Returning to face the music! Tom Brady keeps a low profile as he heads home from luxury Bahamas vacation...





White wife of black NFL player says she was repeatedly harassed over her interracial relationship at 'Wolf...





Former Congressional candidate admits plotting firebombing and school massacre in attack to destroy Muslim...





U.S. intelligence agencies investigate whether slain ISIS leader was captor of 24-year-old American hostage





The 7 embarrassing symptoms you should NEVER ignore, from bloating to profuse sweating and a low sex drive





Woman whose boyfriend convinced her to have THREE boob jobs admits she wouldn't have had them if he hadn't...





Celebrity chef Sandra Lee now in recovery after double mastectomy for breast cancer with boyfriend New York...





Hillary meets the press -- at last! After four weeks without taking questions she opens up for four minutes...





Federal court rejects State Department plan to release Hillary Clinton's emails all at once in January and...





Senior staff quit charity foundation because of 'difficult' Chelsea Clinton who has an entourage nearly as...





As Hillary Clinton avoids bruising media questions on the campaign trail, one colorful Iowa activist says...





MORE HEADLINES







 
            Murdered CEO, wife, son, and maid were 'bound and tortured' overnight in DC mansion by attackers who 'knew the family and wanted something from the father' 
            



 
            EXCLUSIVE: Hillary hides from reporters with SECOND secret party of the day as her security forces race across Iowa at 95 MPH to dodge pursuing journalists
            



 
            America's biggest ranch, which is larger than New York City, goes on sale for $725million in Texas
            



 
            Touching moment five-year-old boy begged his mother to buy a homeless man dinner... and then brought the entire restaurant to tears when he said grace with him
            



 
            The MANY mugshots of the Waco bikers: 170 gang members have to be processed in batches after shoot-out that left nine dead as police investigate whether deadly brawl was sparked by argument over a parking space
            



 
            Former Denver Broncos star Adrian Robinson Jr. dead aged 25 after committing suicide by hanging
            



 
            Bristol Palin's wedding CALLED OFF: Sarah Palin announces cancelled nuptials in Facebook post days after ex-Marine groom's 'secret ex-wife was revealed'
            



 
            Boston Marathon bomber Tsarnaev's enraged mother says America will burn in 'flames of an eternal and terrifying fire' for sentencing son to death
            



 
            Revealed: American doctor's first hand account of how he saw Dachau's SS guards being tortured and shot dead by GIs in 'cold blood' because they 'so had it coming'
            



 
            Iraq braced for the Battle of Baghdad: Chilling images show ISIS victory parade after fanatics seize key city of Ramadi - just 60 miles from the capital - in an orgy of violence and beheadings
            



 
            Steve Irwin's devastated father reveals fury after cameraman broke 'pact of silence' to describe Crocodile Hunter's final gruesome moments
            



 
            EXCLUSIVE PICTURES: Redmond O'Neal, druggie son of Farrah Fawcett and Ryan O'Neal, appears zombie-like and shockingly thin as it's revealed a judge has ordered a warrant for his arrest
            



 
            Senior staff quit charity foundation because of 'difficult' Chelsea Clinton who has an entourage nearly as big as her father's
            



 
            White wife of black NFL player says she was repeatedly harassed over her interracial relationship at 'Wolf of Wall Street'-style investment firm 
            



 
            Bill O'Reilly forced to deny accusations he physically assaulted his ex-wife prior to 2010 split by dragging her 'down a staircase by the neck'
            



 
            'It's degrading and disgusting': Tobacco tycoon who calls himself The Candyman leads his wife around their mansion on a LEASH - as grandparents fear for the young children growing up in a house where guests party naked
            



 
            EXCLUSIVE: From filthy Russian mining town where she was too poor for high heels to love with Bradley Cooper - Irina Shayk's 'affair' with a sugar daddy and how she nearly didn't get a visa because of her Muslim roots
            



 
            Tears on her wedding day: Heartbreaking pictures capture moment forlorn teenage bride was forced to marry a polygamous Chechen police chief after 'he threatened her with kidnap' 
            



 
            It's really off! Bristol Palin pictured in Alaska without her engagement ring after calling off wedding to Marine five days before ceremony amid 'secret wife' claims
            



 
            Emily Blunt leads the Cannes criticism after women are turned away from a red carpet event because they were not wearing high heels
            



 
            Columbia University student takes her rape-protest mattress to graduation because the student she accuses of assaulting her was also there
            



 
            'Go cry somewhere': Hateful words of black Boston University professor to a white rape survivor written on Facebook three months before she claimed white men are 'THE problem for America's colleges'
            



 
            'It was a setup': Warring biker gangs 'planned Waco deadly parking lot gun battle' as police say confrontation that killed nine and led to 170 arrests left 'most violent crime scene' they've ever seen
            



 
            'I feared for my life': Father weeps as he relives 'horrifying' moment biker gang attacked him, his wife and child in road rage clash as undercover COP who took part in melee is pictured for the first time
            



 
            Shocking video shows American schoolkids running in terror as teacher whips 'unruly' children with his belt
            



 
            New York Mets fan caught on camera repeatedly groping woman's breast despite her protests 
            



 
            EXCLUSIVE: 'We had sex standing in the classroom after he wouldn't stop kissing me': Teacher, 29, reveals how she began her relationship with eighth-grader, 15, at her middle school
            



 
            Touching moment a Sikh man breaks strict religious protocol and removes his turban to help save life of a five-year-old boy who was hit by a car 
            



 
            EXCLUSIVE: How the Patriots' Rob Gronkowski partied like a rock star at his Vegas birthday celebration - and reveals his new Tinder dating strategy
            


MOST READ IN DETAIL




















From the Makers of Candy Crush
Farm Heroes Saga, the #4 Game on iTunes. Play it now!



more
































Next story



      Columbia University student takes her rape-protest mattress to graduation because the student she accuses of assaulting her was also there
    







140 comments
    






2 videos
    










	SHARE PICTURE
      














Copy link to paste in your message



















Find out more...






Find out more...























 
 
Back to top






Home




U.K.




News




Sports




U.S. Showbiz




Australia




Femail




Health




Science




Money




Video




Travel




Columnists







Sitemap
Archive
Video Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Our Papers
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
Evening Standard
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
US Careers at DailyMail.com
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies









 











 
 

















