Potent New Nepal Earthquake Compounds Relief and Rebuilding Challenge - NYTimes.com 



Potent New Nepal Earthquake Compounds Relief and Rebuilding Challenge - NYTimes.com




Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content












                Dot Earth            

|
        Potent New Nepal Earthquake Compounds Relief and Rebuilding Challenge        
    



Advertisement





Search
 
Log In

 0
Settings




Close search

search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 













 




Search

 







earthquakes

Potent New Nepal Earthquake Compounds Relief and Rebuilding Challenge


				By Andrew C. Revkin 
May 12, 2015 7:39 am
May 12, 2015 7:39 am
 




PhotoLocations of the 7.8-magnitude earthquake on April 25 and the May 12 7.3 aftershock. (Data are from the U.S. Geological Survey.)Credit The New York Times
PhotoPeople run for open space as a strong earthquake hit east of Kathmandu, Nepal, on May 12.Credit Mast Irham/European Pressphoto Agency
Updates in brackets | Demonstrating the widespread tectonic hazard in the Himalayas, a potent new earthquake, still technically an aftershock, has struck halfway between Kathmandu and Mount Everest. Ellen Barry has a solid roundup in The Times.
Population density over the epicenter of today’s quake is similar to that where the 7.8-magnitude struck to the west on April 25. (See the helpful GeoHazards International map showing population densities.) This new temblor will surely stretch relief efforts, with so much need for housing, clean water and medical care already to the west. The Times has a useful list of reliable relief groups seeking donations.
[11 a.m. | As I sketched on Twitter earlier, in the Himalayas and other regions with big, poor populations and profound seismic hazards, you end up with a cascade of shocks and aftershocks, creating a dangerous superimposition of rescue, relief, assessment, rebuilding and research.
2:50 p.m. | Defense Department officials reported that a Huey helicopter carrying two Nepalese soldiers and six Marines in an area hard hit by the first earthquake is missing.]
The U.S. Geological Survey, as always, has an incredibly thorough summary of the seismic situation and Twitter, as always, is the best source of moment-by-moment updates. Here’s a CNN map comparing the two locations: 
29 dead in Nepal, 3 in India following today’s quake, officials say; more than 1,000 injured. http://t.co/YhRwiCgFX3 http://t.co/TVMLDR5fMQ
— CNN Breaking News (@cnnbrk) 12 May 15
Here’s an apparent landslide under way in the region near Everest, photographed from a relief helicopter by a physician connected with the nonprofit group Doctors For Nepal:
Another #EarthquakeInNepal shocking images from helicopter heading towards #Everest region http://t.co/lrDzaL6mAX
— DOCTORS FOR NEPAL (@DoctorsForNepal) 12 May 15
Various Twitter updates will be added below. Particularly helpful is the stream (also on Facebook) from Nepal’s National Society for Earthquake Technology, which deals risk reduction through resilient building, advancing seismology capacity and tracking relief efforts:
Recording of M7.4 from instrument operated by National Society for Earthquake Technology-Nepal. http://t.co/SY12sTGRCU
— Susan Hough (@SeismoSue) 12 May 15
Kit Miyamoto, a structural engineer who’s been in the region since the first earthquake, has posted an incredibly important video showing how a poorly constructed school in one village pancaked while a well-built school within sight stood firm:
As we enter the assessment phase, we can learn from what has happened and move forward. https://t.co/u771YAQyR3
— Miyamoto Int’l (@miyamotointl) 11 May 15
Luckily, schools across the country were closed for 30 days after the first earthquake, meaning that any classroom collapses today were unlikely to claim many victims.
Here’s a Tweet of mine, focused on reducible seismic threat to schools worldwide:
When Nepal rebuilding resumes, #saferschools key! Avoidable Nepal damage https://t.co/YwmgpVkqwJ echoes ’08 Sichuan: http://t.co/hTZIGb468K
— Andy Revkin (@Revkin) 12 May 15


 

 
Asia, disasters, earthquakes, Geology, 
CNN, Disasters and Emergencies, Earthquakes, GeoHazards International, himalayas, Mount Everest, Nepal 


 


Loading...










Previous Post




				Scientists Praise Contributions of Two Dutch Explorers Who Perished on Arctic Sea Ice			


Next Post




				A Film Explores Curaçao’s Effort to Become a Caribbean Haven for Coral			





About

By 2050 or so, the human population is expected to pass nine billion. Those billions will be seeking food, water and other resources on a planet where humans are already shaping climate and the web of life. In Dot Earth, which moved from the news side of The Times to the Opinion section in 2010, Andrew C. Revkin examines efforts to balance human affairs with the planet’s limits. A Times reporter for 14 years, Revkin is the Senior Fellow for Environmental Understanding at Pace University's Pace Academy for Applied Environmental Studies. 
Conceived in part with support from a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship, Dot Earth tracks relevant developments from suburbia to Siberia. Click for a narrated slide show on the roots of Revkin's journalistic journey.

More: Twitter | Facebook | YouTube | Google+ | Books | Music
 
Archive 
Select Month
 May 2015 
 April 2015 
 March 2015 
 February 2015 
 January 2015 
 December 2014 
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 


Recent Posts 




resilience

Study Finds Sun Belt Population Growth and Warming Climate Could Quadruple Exposure to Extreme Heat



 

			A study finds that climate change and the Sun Belt boom will contribute equally to an enormous rise in potential exposure to extreme heat.Read more…






invasive species

Pressure Builds for Swift U.S. Action Against Spreading Salamander Threat



 

			Federal wildlife officials say they are prepared to act swiftly in the face of a threat to American salamanders.Read more…






oceans

A Film Explores Curaçao’s Effort to Become a Caribbean Haven for Coral



 

			A documentary explores how Curacao is trying to lead the Caribbean in building an economy around its coral reefs, instead one that threatens them.Read more…






earthquakes

Potent New Nepal Earthquake Compounds Relief and Rebuilding Challenge



 

			A new and potent earthquake strikes Nepal halfway between Kathmandu and Mount Everest.Read more…






arctic

Scientists Praise Contributions of Two Dutch Explorers Who Perished on Arctic Sea Ice



 

			A closer look at the lives and deaths of two polar adventurers who helped gather valuable data for Arctic ice scientists.Read more…






Follow us on
@dotearth on twitter

Twitter
Follow 

 







Advertisement







Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


New York


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015

 The New York Times Company




Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 











