Typhoon casualties rise in Davao Region - CNN iReport
Typhoon casualties rise in Davao Region - CNN iReport






Our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy have changed.
By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the new Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.








You've selected the U.S. Edition. Would you like to make this your default edition? YES | NO
 


Close 







EDITION: U.S. 
CNN INTERNATIONAL
MÉXICO
CNN ARABIC









News
Video
TV
Opinions
More...




























SIGN UP

|
 LOG IN





































































































Share this on:



 Twitter

 Tumblr

 E-mail 




















 Tweet 











 









4,789VIEWS
2COMMENTS
 SHARES




About this iReport
Approved for CNN



 
Posted             December 4, 2012
 by 

bentesiorna Follow





                                    Location  
                                    Mati City, Philippines
                                

Assignment





                                            This iReport is part of an assignment: 
Severe weather








More from bentesiorna


Province fetes ‘kiddie fun’ holiday theme Christmas party
Food trip: Hong Kong
Ampatuan scion ambushed, blames relatives
Two dead in Toril V/A
NoCot guv orders police no-nonsense probe on bombing incidents


 









More iReports you should see













                        Protests in Paris after terrorist attack/…
                 
            

By anerota22













Place de la Republique demonstration 
            

By yadray













Place de la Republique 
            

By yadray













Happy 80th Birthday Elvis Presley 
            

By KCRep













To the attention of Henry Hanks 
            

By unclaimed




 



                    Typhoon casualties rise in Davao Region
                

                    By bentesiorna  |  Posted             December 4, 2012
 |  Mati City, Philippines 
                
                


 
 Share





 



CNN PRODUCER NOTE     iReporter bentesiorna went to Mati City in the Philippines to capture the aftermath of Typhoon Bopha on his cell phone. "It hit around 5am and was the first time in many decades we'd had a typhoon," he said. "It was frightening but we tried to prepare, we stayed inside our houses and those living along the coastal areas were evacuated." He said the typhoon has now passed and the sun is shining already on the area. Several people have been killed and considerable damage has occurred in the area, for more information please read  the latest CNN news story. Please note CNN has not confirmed the death toll detailed below.
- sarahbrowngb, CNN iReport producer



By Ben O. Tesiorna As reports have started coming in from the affected areas, the number of casualties in the onslaught of Typhoon Pablo (international code Bopha) has risen to at least 50 people. Compostela Valley Governor Arturo Uy confirmed Tuesday evening that about  33 people died in New Bataan, Compostela Valley during the onslaught of Typhoon Pablo. Six others were reported to have died as well in the town of Montevista, Compostela Valley by municipal information officer Edwin Antia but this has not been confirmed yet by the National Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council. In Davao Oriental where the typhoon made a landfall early morning Tuesday, 17 were confirmed dead. As of five in the afternoon of Tuesday, December 4, the Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council reported that one died in Manay town, one in Tarragona, three in Caraga, one in Baganga, and eleven in Cateel -- all in Davao Oriental. Three persons were also reported injured in the said province as four more were reported missing. The missing were identified as Aliser Antigo, Tata Lamusao, Dodoy Depos and Nelson Pabadura, all residents of Banaybanay, Davao Oriental. Mati City meanwhile has evacuated a total of 1,600 people from the different affected villages within the city. City Administrator Richard Villacorte said they have no reported injuries or casualties in Mati due to Typhoon Pablo. "We took lessons to the past two tsunami scares that hit Mati in the recent past. Most of our emergency responders ay mas mahusay na magrespond sa mga sakunang ganito," said Villacorte. The official however admitted that most residents of Mati were surprised with the Typhoon Pablo since it was their first time to experience such a strong typhoon. "People are generally surprised, not because they are unprepared but because they have never seen such a phenomenon in Mati in their entire lives. It's unprecedented to have winds like that, to have a real typhoon in Mati," said Villacorte. Marcel Son, a member of the Dosmart Responders Group, said "we had never experienced a real typhoon in Mati ever since", until Pablo came. Mati City Mayor Michelle Rabat meanwhile ordered the City Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council to convene to assess the actual damages to infrastructure, properties and agriculture. She also requested to the City Council to declare Mati under a state of calamity while village officials were ordered to assist affected families in returning to their homes. Marikit Quiñones, head of the Housing and Resettlement Division of Mati City, said that majority of the evacuees are those living in marine zones and are informal settlers or squatters. Alex Boyles, a member of the City Engineering team, meanwhile reported that 90% of the roads are still passable while the remaining 10% are already being cleared of debris like fallen trees.    



TAGS:

GROUPS:
News, 
Weather




What do you think of this story?
Select one of the options below. Your feedback will help tell CNN producers what to do with this iReport. If you'd like, you can explain your choice in the comments below.
Be and editor! Choose an option below: 








More from this assignment - Severe weather

 







 

Heavy rain floods Limassol streets 12 december 2014












 

Santa Monica Storm












 

Limassol Rain












See all 12,918 iReports










Comments 

Log in to comment




                 iReport welcomes a lively discussion, so comments on iReports are not pre-screened before they
                 post. See the iReport community guidelines
                 for details about content that is not welcome on iReport.
            



























iReport 101




About
 |

Blog





Awards


 
 Community Guidelines
 
 Meet the Team
 
 Terms of Use
 

We are Everywhere

 
 Facebook
 
 Twitter
 
 Tumblr
 
 Flickr
 

Get Help

 
 StoryTelling Toolkit
 
 FAQs
 
 Contact Us
 
 Advertising Contacts
 

Tools

 
 How to post iReports
 
 CNN Mobile apps
 





















Welcome! Let's get started.












Member Log In


Reset Successful
Log in now.






Forgot password? 







Remember me for two weeks











Forgot Password
Enter your e-mail address below and we will send you an e-mail with a link and reset code to reset your password.









Continue if you already have the reset code 





Password Selection

Grab the reset code we e-mailed to you.Type it in, and create your new password.


Create your new password





























Sign Up
 Be sure to fill in everything with an *









Providing your contact information helps us verify your stories to include in CNN coverage.





Can't read this?





By clicking on "sign up" you agree with CNN's Terms of Service, CNN iReport's Terms of Service, and CNN's Privacy Policy and consent to the collection, storage and use of this information in the U.S. subject to U.S. laws and regulations. 
(learn more) 


For our international users, please be aware that the information you submit when registering for our services is collected in the United States of America. In addition to being subject to our Privacy Policy, the collection, storage, and use of your data will be subject to U.S. laws and regulations, which may be different from the laws and regulations of your home country. By registering for this service, you are consenting to this collection, storage, and use. 

























































Create your screen name
Please create a screen name. This screen name will be associated with your
iReport stories and comments on this site.
It cannot be changed once you make a selection.





Select one with 3-12 characters, numbers and letters only













































