BBC News - Philippine Typhoon Bopha death toll passes 300







BBC News - Philippine Typhoon Bopha death toll passes 300












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Asia







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada



















6 December 2012
Last updated at 06:22


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Philippine Typhoon Bopha death toll passes 300









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























A three-year-old boy was among those rescued from the mud



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


'200,000 in shelters' Watch


Philippines typhoon toll rises


In pictures: Typhoon Bopha hits Philippines 



More than 300 people have died and hundreds more are missing in the wake of Typhoon Bopha, which cut a swathe of devastation across the southern Philippines. 
The Civil Defence Office said at least 325 people were confirmed dead and another 379 missing. 
People were killed in eight provinces but eastern Mindanao was worst-hit. 
In Compostela Valley province alone at least 184 people died, many when flash floods hit emergency shelters.  
"We have 325 dead and this is expected to rise because many more are missing," civil defence chief Benito Ramos told a news conference early on Thursday.
"Communications are bogged down, there is no electricity, roads and bridges have been destroyed," he said. "We're still on a search-and-rescue mode." 
'Like a waterfall'
The storm struck Mindanao island on Tuesday, bringing very high winds and heavy rain. Roofs were blown off houses and the rain led to both landslides and flooding. 



Tens of thousands of people were moved to shelters ahead of the typhoon, but in one town in Compostela Valley the shelters themselves were swept away by flash floods. 
"According to [survivors], there is a small lake on the mountain that gave way so the waters flowed down, not just along the rivers... but all across, like a waterfall, bringing a slurry that covered the whole town," Interior Secretary Mar Roxas said.
Rescue teams are still working to reach communities in some isolated areas.  
One injured man was found alive in a river in New Bataan on Thursday morning. 
Carlos Agang said he had been swept away when flash floods hit his home, ending up pinned down by boulders and debris downstream. He said he did not know where his wife and children were. 
"I was shouting for help all the time, but no one came. I don't know what happened to [my family]. Perhaps they are all dead," Mr Agang told AFP news agency. 
'Cause for distress'
The typhoon came almost a year after Typhoon Washi struck northern Mindanao with devastating consequences. More than 1,300 people died when that storm struck, as rivers burst their banks and swamped communities. 









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























The UN's Luiza Carvalho says 200,000 people are in evacuation shelters



 The UN said that improved early warning systems had saved lives this time. 
But President Benigno Aquino said more needed to be done. 
"Any single casualty is a cause for distress. Our aim must always be about finding ways to lessen them," he said. 
The typhoon is now moving past the Philippines into the South China Sea. 
The US has offered help to both the Philippines and Palau, which was also hit by the storm earlier in the week. 
"Our embassies in Manila and Koror have offered immediate disaster relief assistance, and we are working closely with authorities in both countries to offer additional assistance as needed,"  deputy State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in a statement.




More on This Story


Related Stories



'200,000 in shelters' Watch

06 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                ASIA



Philippines typhoon toll rises

05 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                ASIA



In pictures: Typhoon Bopha hits Philippines 

05 DECEMBER 2012,    
                                                ASIA



Human cost of Philippines floods Watch

23 DECEMBER 2011,    
                                                ASIA



A Philippine Christmas to forget

19 DECEMBER 2011,    
                                                ASIA



In pictures: Philippine flood devastation

18 DECEMBER 2011,    
                                                ASIA











Related Internet links


Philippines National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Asia stories
RSS




Sri Lanka leader faces crucial poll

Sri Lankan leader Mahinda Rajapaksa faces an unexpected battle to hold on to power, as millions begin voting in a tightly fought election.



Sony Pictures hackers 'got sloppy'




Tail of crashed AirAsia plane found












Top Stories



Manhunt for French magazine gunmen


Charlie Hebdo attack - latest Live


Tesco joins supermarket price war


'Game-changing' antibiotic find


Parents 'quit work over care costs'









Features




Monster of the sea

The world's biggest ship - for 53 days 	
				  




'I love you' Watch

How a dog helped an autistic boy open up  	
				  




'So much pain'

The animals killed and maimed in Australia's bushfires 	
				  




America, really?  Watch

What baffles foreigners about the American way 	
				  




Tables turned 

The fiery US lawyer in an unwanted spotlight 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Massacre at French magazine office



2: 'Game-changing' antibiotic find



3: The recurring Facebook privacy hoax



4: Why hasn't Japan banned child-porn comics?



5: Dumped dog's belongings in suitcase



Read




1: 
    Charlie Hebdo attack - latest  



2: 
    Charlie Hebdo: Major manhunt for Paris gunmen  



3: 
    Tesco joins price war as supermarket plots recovery course  



4: 
    Antibiotics: US discovery labelled 'game-changer' for medicine  



5: 
    Cargo ship: Stricken Solent vessel 'held' overnight off Isle of Wight  



6: 
    Parents 'consider quitting work over childcare costs'  



7: 
    More Bill Cosby accusers come forward  



8: 
    Islamic State crisis: Religious police 'kidnapped' in Syria  



9: 
    The world's biggest ship - for 53 days  



10: 
    Sony Pictures hackers 'got sloppy', FBI says  




Video/Audio




1: "Americans, this is pointless" Watch



3: Rooftop video of Paris shooting Watch



4: Paris gunfire caught on video Watch



5: Video shows gunmen fleeing attack Watch



6: Reporter at scene of the attack Watch



7: Massacre at French magazine office Watch



8: Farmer forced to cull 'Nazi' cattle Watch



9: What baffles the world about the British?  Watch



























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       Copyright © 2015 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  




































    













