
	Typhoon Bopha Kills 74 In Philippines
 
	Typhoon Bopha Kills 74 In Philippines
       

































VOASites by Language   Top Stories:   

    








English WorldwideEnglishvoanews.comLearning Englishlearningenglish.voanews.comEastern & Central EuropeShqipZeriamerikes.comBosanskivijestiglasaamerike.comΕλληνικάgr.voanews.comМакедонскиmk.voanews.comSrpskiglasamerike.netУкраїнськаchastime.comEurasiaՀայերենamerikayidzayn.comAzerbaijaniamerikaninsesi.orgქართულიamerikiskhma.comРусскийgolos-ameriki.ruCentral AsiaO‘zbekamerikaovozi.comEast & Southeast AsiaBurmeseburmese.voanews.com粵語voacantonese.com中文voachinese.comBahasa Indonesiavoaindonesia.comខ្មែរkhmer.voanews.comKhmervoacambodia.com한국어voakorea.comລາວlao.voanews.comไทยvoathai.comབོད་ཡིགvoatibetan.comTibetanvoatibetanenglish.comTiếng Việtvoatiengviet.comSouth Asiaবাংলাvoabangla.comدریdarivoa.comپښتوpashtovoa.comوی او اې ډيوه ريډیوvoadeewaradio.comاردوurduvoa.comAfricaAfaan Oromoovoaafaanoromoo.comአማርኛamharic.voanews.comFrançaislavoixdelamerique.comHausavoahausa.comKinyarwandaradiyoyacuvoa.comKirundiradiyoyacuvoa.comNdebelevoandebele.comPortuguêsvoaportugues.comShonavoashona.comSoomaaligavoasomali.comKiswahilivoaswahili.comትግርኛtigrigna.voanews.comZimbabwevoazimbabwe.comMiddle East / North Africaفارسیir.voanews.comكوردیdengiamerika.comKurdidengeamerika.comTürkçeamerikaninsesi.comLatin AmericaCreolevoanouvel.comEspañolvoanoticias.com




                            VOA
                        





                                            Log in
                                        

                                            Sign up
                                        



                                                Log out
                                            












Home
USA
Africa
Asia
Mideast
Europe
Science & Tech
Health
Entertainment
Economy
Programs













                                    Listen


Listen




   Africa LiveAfrican Music Mix     Latest NewscastGlobal LiveAfrica Live     Latest NewscastVOA 1 – The HitsAfrica LiveAfrican Music Mix          Africa LiveAfrican Music Mix     Global Live     Music MixLatest Newscast       

 


News / Asia


            Typhoon Bopha Kills 74 In Philippines
        





Print



Share:







Residents saw an uprooted tree to clear the road after Typhoon Bopha hit Tagum City, southern Philippines December 4, 2012.








Tweet










                                    Related Articles
                                

Hundreds Evacuate as Typhoon Approaches Philippines
  








William Gallo

                    December 04, 2012 4:35 AM
                



		A powerful typhoon has caused floods and set off mudslides that killed at least 74 people in the Philippines and forced thousands to flee their homes.

Typhoon Bopha, the strongest storm to hit the nation this year made landfall on the east coast of Mindanao island early Tuesday packing winds of more than 200 kilometers per hour that toppled trees and cut power lines.  Floods swept away an army truck full of soldiers many of whom drowned.

Some 41,000 residents were evacuated to government shelters ahead of the landfall.  At least 80 domestic flights have been cancelled, while ships were ordered to stay in port..

Joe Curry, the head of Catholic Relief Services in the Philippines, said authorities seem more prepared to deal with this storm compared to last year's Tropical Storm Washi, which killed more than 1,200 people.

Watch related video of Typhoon Bopha


   


                                          Video of Typhoon Bopha lashing the southern Philippinesi        ▶   ▶ || 0:00:00   ... ⇱        🔇     ▶       ▶     X    December 04, 2012 4:47 PM   Reports from the southern Philippines say at least 40 people are dead as powerful Typhoon Bopha pummels the area with winds about 200 kilometers per hour, in one of the biggest storms to hit the area this year.       



"So far there's been more preparedness efforts at this time, but I think we're going to see the damage [reports] come out later today and tomorrow," said Curry. "I know there's been a lot of efforts at evacuating, but we'll have to see how the infrastructure holds up."

Forecasters say the storm is expected to weaken and move into the South China Sea by Thursday. Philippines authorities say they have stockpiled food supplies and rescue equipment in the storm's predicted path.

During last year's Tropical Storm Washi in December 2011, major flash floods and landslides wiped out entire villages on Mindanao. The archipelago country is vulnerable to severe flooding caused by heavy rains and tsunamis.

  


			Relatives grieve as they view bodies recovered from floods in New Bataan, Compostela Valley province, southern Philippines, December 5, 2012.
		


			A rescuer covers bodies recovered from a flash flood in New Bataan, Compostela Valley province, southern Philippines, December 5, 2012. 
		


			Filipino soldiers search for victims and survivors amid the devastation left by Typhoon Bopha, in the village of Andap, New Bataan township, Compostela Valley in southern Philippines, December 5, 2012. 
		


			Residents cross a river in the flash flood-hit village of Andap, New Bataan township, Compostela Valley in southern Philippines, December 5, 2012. 
		


			Residents cross a river using suspended ropes at Andap, New Bataan township, Compostela Valley in southern Philippines, December 5, 2012, a day after Typhoon Bopha made landfall.
		


			Residents wait for relief supplies at the flash flood-hit village of Andap, New Bataan township, Compostela Valley in southern Philippines, December 5, 2012, a day after the devastating Typhoon Bopha made landfall. 
		


			Residents make their way through a flooded area of New Bataan township, Compostela Valley in southern Philippines, December 5, 2012, a day after Typhoon Bopha made landfall.
		


			Philippine National Police clear a highway of toppled coconut trees after Typhoon Bopha made landfall in Compostela Valley, December 4, 2012.
		


			Workers clear a highway of toppled trees after Typhoon Bopha made landfall in Compostela Valley, Philippines, December 4, 2012.
		


			Residents retrieve their belongings after their house was destroyed by a fallen tree caused by Typhoon Bopha in Cagayan de Oro City, Philippines, December 4, 2012.
		


			Residents saw an uprooted tree to clear the road after Typhoon Bopha hit Tagum City, Philippines, December 4, 2012.
		


			A dog is chained near a damaged house after Typhoon Bopha made landfall in Compostela Valley, December 4, 2012.
		

  ◀  ▶     < ▶ || >  1/12   ... ⇱   Disable Captions Enable Captions     










Print



Share:




Tweet












You May Like          With Saudi King Ailing, Stakes, Anticipation Run High   Hospitalization of Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah comes at a time of nervousness over threat of terror from without and within, and speculation over whether it's time for younger generation of princes to take over.  More           Countering HIV's Disguise Inches Scientists Toward Cure   Researchers have a new lead on why HIV has been so hard to cure, and potential new strategy for driving it from one of its last major hiding places in the body  More           Uganda Introduces First LGBT Magazine   'Bombastic' aims to cover LGBT-related topics, give voice to those who are too fearful to come out in the socially-conservative East African country  More       
      Featured Videos









                    Your JavaScript is turned off or you have an old version of Adobe's Flash Player. Get the latest Flash player.
                







  






      Libya Seeks Arab Help as Terrorism Concerns Growi        ▶   ▶ || 0:00:00   ... ⇱      270p / 5.0MB   360p / 7.0MB   486p / 62.0MB       🔇     ▶       ▶     X  Henry Ridgwell   January 07, 2015 1:21 AM   As Libya’s official government asks for military help to tackle rival militias, analysts warn the country is on the verge of breaking apart. There are also fears over Libya’s role as an exporter of terror, amid reports of growing links between Islamist militants in the country and the Islamic State group. VOA's Henry Ridgwell reports from London.       







                        Video
                    

 Libya Seeks Arab Help as Terrorism Concerns Grow


                        As Libya’s official government asks for military help to tackle rival militias, analysts warn the country is on the verge of breaking apart. There are also fears over Libya’s role as an exporter of terror, amid reports of growing links between Islamist militants in the country and the Islamic State group. VOA's Henry Ridgwell reports from London.
                    





                        Video
                    

 Smartphones Becoming Tools for Diagnosing Malaria


                        Doctors fighting malaria - one of the deadliest diseases on the planet - may soon have a new affordable weapon in their smart phones.  Researchers have found a way to use the phone’s camera to detect the microorganism in the patient's blood that causes the disease. VOA’s George Putic reports.
                    

Comment (0)




                        Video
                    

 Obstacles Remain in Obama’s Goal of Guantanamo Closure


                        The Obama administration ended the year with the release of more detainees from the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. On December 30, the Pentagon announced that three Yemenis and two Tunisians were flown to Kazakhstan for resettlement. VOA correspondent Aru Pande takes a look at whether President Barack Obama will be able to realize his goal to shut down the facility during his last two years in office
                    

Comment (0)




                        Video
                    

 Political Wrangling Heats Up Over Keystone Pipeline


                        Top officials with the U.S. oil industry are urging Congress and the president to approve a controversial oil pipeline that would bring crude from Canada to refineries on the U.S. Gulf coast.  The new business-friendly Republican majority in the Senate favors the project, but White House officials say President Obama, a Democrat, may veto the program.  VOA's Jim Randle reports.
                    

Comment (1)




                        Video
                    

 Governments, Competitors Cooperate to Produce Ebola Vaccine


                        The worst Ebola outbreak in history is in its second year, and scientists around the world are working to develop a vaccine against the virus.  Since December of 2013, when the Ebola outbreak began in West Africa, the World Health Organization reports more than 20,000 people have been infected with the virus, and of those, more than 8,000 people have died.  VOA's Carol Pearson reports on two vaccines that are being developed.
                    

Comment (0)




                        Video
                    

 US Defends Cuba Policy in Wake of Dissident Arrests


                        Cuban dissidents say last week’s detention of activists by Cuban authorities demonstrates what they call the fallacy of U.S. President Barack Obama’s recent decision to re-establish diplomatic relations with the communist nation and relax some restrictions on travel and trade.  As VOA’s Bill Rodgers reports, the Obama administration maintains its new policy eventually will help bring change to Cuba.
                    

Comment (0)




                        Video
                    

 Simple New Test Detects Early Signs of Diabetes


                        People with Type 1 diabetes, usually diagnosed in children and young adults, must take insulin injections and watch their diet to keep their blood sugar levels balanced. Diagnosing the disease usually requires taking blood samples, a frightening experience for many youngsters. Researchers in the United Kingdom say they have developed a simple, non-invasive initial test, which requires only a whiff of the patient’s breath. VOA’s George Putic reports.
                    

Comment (0)




                        Video
                    

 No Cheating in Exam Finals Marks Sea Change for Cambodia


                        Cambodia’s final exam results for 2014 were disastrous, with more than half of the 90,000 students failing. The reason? The authorities stamped out cheating - the first of a series of reforms designed to fix the impoverished country’s broken education sector. Robert Carmichael reports for VOA from Phnom Penh.
                    

Comment (1)




































 Circumventing Censorship        An Internet Primer for Healthy Web Habits  As surveillance and censoring technologies advance, so, too, do new tools for your computer or mobile device that help protect your privacy and break through Internet censorship.  More   All About America
                          previous       next    Day in Photos          More Asia News       World Bank Expects Global Trade to Grow at Slower Pace         Australian Wildfires Threaten to Produce ‘Ashtray’ Wine Vintage         US, Indonesia Expand Military Cooperation Agreement          N. Korea Condemns New Leaflet Launches from S. Korea         Pakistani Kidnapper of American Sentenced to Death          Group Warns of Eradication of Christians in Muslim Countries         Cambodian Ruling Party Criticizes Opposition On Contentious Holiday         FBI: Sony Hackers 'Sloppy,' Used North Korean Servers         McDonald's Japan Apologizes After Objects Found in Food         Pakistan President Signs Bill Allowing Military Courts for Terror Suspects   More ArticlesBlogs Science WorldNASA’s Dawn Spacecraft Begins Approach to Dwarf Planet Ceres 5 days ago Science Images of the Month – December, 2014 7 days ago Science Scanner: Venus Mission Ends, Organic Chemistry on Mars, Hormone Changes in Expectant Dads, New High in CO2 Output 21 days ago The Student Union“Study Abroad” Confronts Stereotypes of Foreign Students in US 30 days ago Thanksgiving in the US: Friends, Food, and Freezing Weather  “All About America”: China Soars, US Stalls in Study Abroad  Most Viewed 1 of 3 Suspects in Paris Shootings SurrendersDASH Named Best Overall Health Diet Crews Set to Look for More Bodies in AirAsia Jet SectionChinese Moviegoers React to 'The Interview'Iran Accuses Saudis of Oil Conspiracy Most EmailedDASH Named Best Overall Health DietUS, Indonesia Expand Military Cooperation Agreement  January 6, 2015Iran Accuses Saudis of Oil Conspiracy Obama Threatens Veto on Canada-US Oil PipelineMost Discussed1 of 3 Suspects in Paris Shootings Surrenders (24)Iran Accuses Saudis of Oil Conspiracy  (7)Chinese Moviegoers React to 'The Interview' (7)HRW Calls on Germany to Pressure Ukraine on Civilian Casualties (7)US: Unaware of Taiwan Flag-raising at Washington Residence (7) 














Services:PodcastRSSMail SubscriptionMobile


















VOANews.com
USA
Africa
Asia
Mideast
Europe
Americas

Science & Technology
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Business & Economy
Blogs
Video
Editorials
About VOA
Media Relations
Contact Us
Job Opportunities
Terms of Use/Privacy Policy
Our Languages
Usage Requests
Our Partners
RFE/RL
Radio Free Asia
MBN
Radio Marti
Our Broadcasts
Frequencies and Schedules
Pronunciation Guide
Broadcast Programs










 