Typhoon Haiyan feared to have killed TEN THOUSAND | Daily Mail Online
Typhoon Haiyan feared to have killed TEN THOUSAND | Daily Mail Online



























 













 Home




 U.K.



 
 

News




 Sports




 U.S. Showbiz




 Australia




 Femail




 Health




 Science




 Money




 Video




 Travel




 Columnists







News Home


Arts


Headlines


Pictures


Most read


News Board


Wires



My Profile
Logout



Login













Feedback








DailyMail






 






 show ad


































Teenage suspect 'arrested after handing himself into police' over Paris magazine massacre that left 12 dead - as anti-terror unit raids building in hunt for two brothers 'trained in Yemen as assassins'





Je suis Charlie! The cry of defiance: Vast crowds rally across the world to condemn the gun massacre as Francoise Hollande declares tomorrow a day of mourning





They shouted out names... then fired: Minute by minute, how the horror unfolded in magazine newsroom





New York City steps up security for French Consulate and media organizations after Paris terror attack





They stood defiantly for freedom of speech... and paid the highest price: Slain cartoonists who were called out by name and slaughtered for 'insulting Prophet'





Charlie Hebdo cartoonist reveals terrorists threatened to murder her toddler unless she let them in - how she cowered with child under desk as massacre took place





'Religion deserves our fearless disrespect': Salman Rushdie condemns Charlie Hebdo attack as a sign of the 'deadly mutation in the heart of Islam' 





'We have the right to make dumb jokes': Tina Fey defends free speech in wake of Charlie Hebdo massacre





Obama condemns 'cowardly evil' attack on French newspaper two years after the White House slammed the publication for its caricatures





Is this the answer to doctors' prayers? Super-antibiotic that could wipe out diseases from MRSA to TB is hailed as a 'game-changer' by scientists 





Veterans' clinic shooter named as ex-employee and Iraq veteran who had verbally threatened his victim before at a nearby supermarket





How women perfect their hairstyle at 32 but will have tried 50 different styles before finally deciding which suits them best 





What happens if your wife always says YES to sex? Three brave couples take part in a unique and revealing experiment





'It's no fun without her': Devoted husband, 88, said final goodbye to wife dying after 69 years of marriage - then returned to his room and pulled out all his IV tubes so he could join her





How man's best friend followed us to the Americas: Researchers say dogs may have first migrated 10,000 years ago, thousands of years after the first human migrants





Pictured: Prince Andrew surrounded by topless women on Thai holiday with pedophile Epstein as friend says Duke 'has always been a t***s and bums man'





Andrew's sex abuser pal left a pregnant writer in fear: Journalist probing Epstein's sex life tells how he 'intimidated' her 





New lives of the girls in Andrew sex claim row: Epstein's aides who refused to testify are now a pilot and a designer





'Prince Andrew did NOT have sex with underage girls': Playboy model 'who dated Duke' attacks sex slave claims and says 'there's not an ounce of truth' to it





Lawyers for Prince Andrew accuser Virginia Roberts COUNTER-SUE Harvard law professor for defamation after he accused them of 'deliberate misconduct' 





120 million people warned they could get frostbite in MINUTES as 'dangerously cold air' descends on Northeast





Four people arrested after a meth lab and a bucket of human waste were found in a home with no running water where three young children had been living





Aaron Hernandez's solemn fiancee appears in court to determine if she will receive immunity in football star's murder case





Girlfriend, 22, dies in car crash after her boyfriend bought an engagement ring so he could propose on Valentine's Day




Previous
Next








Typhoon Haiyan feared to have killed TEN THOUSAND Filipinos as Vietnam and China now prepare for the worstTyphoon Haiyan was a maximum category-five storm with ground winds of up to 235mphRed Cross today estimates 1,200 people have been killed, 1,000 of those in the city of Tacloban, LeyteAround four million people are said to have been affected, according to the the country's national disaster agencyBodies were seen floating in flooded streets with rescue workers saying the aftermath was similar to the 2004 Tsunami 800,000 evacuated before gales whipped up 19ft waves that battered the islands of Leyte and Samar Storm has now passed majority of the islands and is set to move inland towards Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and ChinaHundreds of thousands of people in South East Asia have been evacuated and moved to shelters170,000 Vietnamese soldiers are brought in as aid agencies predict 6.5 million people will be affected Thousands of British nationals are thought to have been left stranded by the ferocious weather Britain has pledged £6 million in aid and US Secretary of State John Kerry has said America 'stands ready to help' UN says 2.5 million people are in need of food aid and UNICEF have estimated 1.5 million children live in affected areasWeather forecasts have also predicted that high winds and rain could return to the Philippines on Monday
By

Lizzie Edmonds


and 
Wills Robinson


Published:
  04:59 EST, 9 November 2013

 | 
Updated:
  05:37 EST, 11 November 2013




















 

View  comments



The death toll from one of the most powerful storms on record could reach 10,000 according to officials. So far Typhoon Haiyan is said to have killed 1,200 people in the Philippines and left many more injured, but the figure could rise dramatically after the full devastation of the ferocious storm was realised. According to the Red Cross, 1,000 have been left dead in the devastated city of Tacloban on the island of Leyte with a further 200 casualties in Samar Province. Regional police chief Elmer Soria said he was briefed by Leyte provincial Govenor Dominic Petilla late last night and told there were about 10,000 deaths on the island, mostly by drowning and from collapsed buildings. About four million people are believed to have been affected by the category five storm, according to the country's national disaster agency. This figure includes 800,000 who had to be evacuated before the storm struck.SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS  
Loss: A mother weeps beside the dead body of her son at a chapel in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan in Tacloban
   
Operation: A Vietnamese soldier carries a young girl from a lorry as villagers are evacuated to a safe place by the military  
Braced: Residents in Phu Yen, Vietnam, prepare sandbags in preparation for the storm which is expected to reach the coast on Sunday morning  
Strengthen: Soldiers and workers reinforce a dyke with weather experts predicting sea surges to hit the Vietnamese coast  
Bolster: Troops help prepare a house for the arrival of typhoon Haiyan at a village in the central province of Quang Tri
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Winds of up to 235mph and gusts of 
170mph left a trail of destruction - triggering major landslides, 
knocking out power and communications and causing catastrophic 
widespread damage. Hundreds of homes have been flattened and scores of 
streets flooded.The storm 
is now moving towards mainland Asian and is expected to reach Vietnam 
coastal areas on Sunday morning while humanitarian experts estimate the 
number of casualties will rise considerably. Weather
 forecasts have also predicted more bad weather could be on the way to 
the Philippines at the beginning of next week, with high winds expected 
to arrive on Monday.The Foreign Office in the Philippines’ capital Manila has had no reports of British casualties but it is feared thousands have been left stranded as a result. About 15,000 British nationals are said to live on the islands and every year 65,000 visit tourist hotspots like northern Cebu Province and Boracay Island, both of which have been savaged by the storm.


RELATED ARTICLES

Previous
1
Next






Is a snowstorm headed for the East Coast? Forecasters say...



Sun unleashes its most powerful solar flare of the year -...





Share this article
Share



Vietnamese authorities have begun 
evacuating 100,000 people as they prepare to face the full force of the ferocious weather. 'The evacuation 
is being conducted with urgency,' disaster official Nguyen Thi Yen Linh 
said from central Danang City, where some 76,000 were being moved to 
safety.Around 300,000 others have 
been taken to shelters in the provinces of Quang Ngai, Quang Nam and 
Thua Thien Hue. Schools were closed and two deputy prime ministers were 
sent to the region to direct preparations.The army has been brought in to provide emergency relief with some 170,000 soldiers assisting people after the typhoon hits.Haiyan
 is likely to be a category two or three storm when it hits the 
Vietnamese coast, but the Red Cross has warned some 6.5 million people 
in in the country could be affected.It is expected to reach Da Nang province tomorrow morning before 
moving up the country's west coast and eventually making its way to the 
capital, Hanoi.    




Footage released as typhoon Haiyan hits China








more videos










1


2


3


4


















Watch video
                
Terrifying video shows trained terrorists gunning down...






Watch video
                
Adorable moment twin babies lock eyes for the first time






Watch video
                
It's pug vs baby in power struggle over dog bed










Watch video
                
Harrowing Instagram video captures audio of gunfire in Paris






Watch video
                
Two best friends: Monkey and baby in adorable friendship






Watch video
                
Cute Siberian Husky scared of talking toy Furby










Watch video
                
Kai the abandoned dog settles in at rehoming centre






Watch video
                
Terrifying sounds of gunshots from rooftop above Paris...






Watch video
                
Has Bigfoot been caught on camera in the Maine forest?










Watch video
                
Moment off-duty cop accidentally shoots himself in front of...






Watch video
                
Meet 23-year-old Augusto Deoliveira the magical dog trainer






Watch video
                
Biden compliments Orrin Hatch's granddaughter on her looks















  
Desolation: This picture shows an flattened area of the destroyed Tacloban city covered by debris and flood water  
Damage: More ruined buildings in Tacloban city, Leyte, can be seen lining the coast of the devastated area  
Debris: A Philippine flag lies in the rubble of damaged houses  
Loss: Around four million people in the Philippines are said to have been affected, according to the the country's national disaster agency
 
   
Joint effort: Villagers throw up sandbags to the roof of a house in Quang Nam province, Vietnam
   
Gusts: Palm trees show the wind has already picked up along the coast of Vietnam, prompting fisherman to move their boats from the beach  
Wind: The boats have been moved onto a road as a safety precaution
 
  
  
 
 
   
Braced: Red Cross staff in Danang Province, Vietnam, fill sandbags  in preparation for the coming storm  
Protection: Local volunteers dig a trench to provide shelter from the typhoon which is heading for mainland Asia
 
 
   
Flattened: A Filipino boy stands among the debris in Tacloban, Leyte - one of the worst areas hit by category five storm Typhoon Haiyan
    
Death: It has been estimated by the Red Cross that 1,000 of the 1,200 people killed by the typhoon were residents of Tacloban
   
Widespread: This picture shows acres of flooded rice fields in the Iloilo Province, another area devastated by the typhoon
 Weather experts predict the country will experience sea surges, strong winds and up to two feet of rain, triggering massive floods.Chinese authorities have also issued a level three emergency response throughout the country, ordering fisherman to shelter their boats to prevent any damage.It will be the 30th typhoon to hit China this year with the central and southern parts of Hainan and Sansha city expected to be hit by downpours in the next 24 hours. Officials in neighbouring Laos and Cambodia are also taking precautions in an attempt to soften the impact of the ferocious storm. Humanitarian experts say they expect 
the number of casualties to be 'massive'. A Red Cross spokesman said: 
'We now fear that thousands will have lost their lives.'The UK has sent a team of three experts 
to the country today to assess the extent of the damage, after which the
 Government will decide upon its response, a spokesman for the 
Department for International Development (Dfid) said.International Development Secretary Justine Greening has also pledged £6 million worth of 
emergency aid. She said: 'My thoughts are with the people of the Philippines, in particular those who have lost loved ones. UK support is now under way.'Many thousands of people in remote, hard-to-reach communities have lost their homes and everything they own. They are living in the open and completely exposed to the elements.'The absolute priority must be to reach them with shelter and protection as soon as possible.'UK support will provide urgently needed access to clean water, shelter, household items and blankets,'We are also sending additional humanitarian experts from the UK to work with the DfID team and international agencies, including ensuring partners are prioritising the protection of vulnerable girls and women.'The
 category-5 super typhoon Haiyan – Chinese for ‘sea bird’ – smashed into
 the eastern islands of the Philippines with winds nearly 150mph 
stronger than the St Jude storm which struck the UK in late October.Roofs were ripped from houses, ferocious 20ft waves washed away coastal villages, power lines came down and trees were uprooted.  
Pragmatic: Villagers dig a makeshift shelter to protect themselves from the ferocious weather which is expected to impact 6.5 million people in Vietnam
   
Precautions: Fisherman anchor their boats in Vietnam in preparation for the arrival of one of the worst storms on record
  
 

 

 
Plans: An elderly woman is taken from her home in Danang, Vietnam, as the government begins to evacuate 100,000 people lying in the path of typhoon Haiyan  
Properties: Volunteers place sand bags on the roof of a house  
Sheets are draped over the boats in an effort to soften the impact of the storm
 
 
   
From above: An aerial view shows badly damaged houses, including many without a roof, and blocked roads in the Philippine province of Iloilo
   
 

 

 
Recovery: A child is lifted to safety from a house in Tacloban, left, and two residents sit on the pavement in front of their home in the same city, right
 
   
Badly hit:  A group of houses in a coastal community in Iloilo Province, central Philippines, that have been destroyed. Boats lie thrown along the coastline also
 Capt.
 John Andrews, deputy director general of the Civil Aviation Authority 
of the Philippines, said he had received 'reliable information' by radio
 that more than 100 bodies were lying in the streets of Tacloban on 
hardest-hit Leyte Island.Regional
 military commander Lt. Gen. Roy Deveraturda said that the casualty 
figure 'probably will increase' after viewing aerial photographs of the 
widespread devastation caused by the typhoon. Cabinet
 Secretary Rene Almendras, a senior aide to President Benigno Aquino 
III, said that the number of casualties could not be immediately 
determined, but that the figure was 'probably in that range' given by 
Andrews. Government troops were helping recover bodies, he said.Interior Secretary Mar Roxas said it was too early to know how many people had died in the storm.In the aftermath, Filipinos have taken to social media in an attempt to find missing loved ones by posting photos on Twitter.   
Wreckage: An image from footage shot by Philippine broadcaster ABS-CBN shows a man carrying a child through the debris in Leyte, Philippines  
Flattened: The typhoon has ravaged most of the city of Tacloban and destroyed the airport 
 
 
  
Ruins: A resident sifts through rubbish inside his ruined home, flattened by 235mph winds in the devastated city of Tacloban
   
  
Scale: This image shows the enormous Typhoon Haiyan taken by Astronaut Karen L. Nyberg aboard the Internatioal Space Station  
Satellite: A picture posted on Twitter by NASA at 8.00pm GMT shows the centre of the moving across the South China Sea towards the coast of Vietnam
   
Path: Once the typhoon has reached the coast of Vietnam it is expected to moved towards the capital, Hanoi, with parts of Laos and Cambodia also likely to be affected
  
 

 

 
Loss: A pregnant woman, left, walks around the remains of her home while a young boy, right, walks past a crushed car in the destroyed town of Tacloban
   
Shock: A woman stands amidst the devastation. Flood water can be seen in the background covering most of the area around the demolished building
   																																																																																																																														In Tacloban, a city of more than 
200,000 believed to be one of the worst hit cities, corrugated 
iron sheets were ripped from roofs before crashing into buildings, 
according to video footage taken by a resident.Flash
 floods also turned Tacloban's streets into rivers, while a pictures 
from an ABS-CBN television reporter showed six bamboo houses washed away
 along a beach more than 200 kilometres to the south.Civil
 aviation authorities in Tacloban, about 360 miles southeast of Manila, 
reported the seaside airport terminal was 'ruined' by storm surges.U.S.
 Marine Col. Mike Wylie, who surveyed the damage in Tacloban prior to 
possible American assistance, said that the damage to the runway was 
significant. However, military planes were still able to land with 
relief aid.  
 

 

 
Temporary: Bodies of victims lay in a deserted chapel in Tacloban. A woman and child, right, view the distressing scene
  
Flooding: Locals in Coron, Palawan, walk among damaged buildings and flooded streets after the typhoon - one of the most powerful to ever hit land 
Terrifying: Filipino children are seen in the city of Tacloban, Leyte. Behind them is a scene of devastation with homes flattened and debris lying in the street  
Picking up the pieces: Some residents try to go about their daily business despite the large-scale destruction
 
   
 

 

 
Tragedy: Bodies of residents can be seen in the 
streets of Tacloban, while one local is forced to transport a body in a 
wheelbarrow
 
    
Collapsed: A resident walks past her destroyed home - flattened by piles of wood and branches from nearby trees - in Tacloban city  
 

 

 
Aftermath: A lorry that had been picked up by the wind and slammed in to a tree, is pictured left, while residents attempt to move their belongings across a fallen branch
 Vice mayor Jim Pe of Coron town on Busuanga, the last island battered by the typhoon before it blew away to the South China Sea, said most of the houses and buildings there had been destroyed or damaged. Five people drowned in the storm surge and three others are missing. He said: 'It was like a 747 flying just above my roof.' adding that his family and some of his neighbours whose houses were destroyed took shelter in his basement.ABS-CBN also showed fierce winds whipping buildings and vehicles as storm surges swamped Tacloban with debris-laden floodwaters.In the aftermath, people were seen weeping while retrieving bodies of loved ones inside buildings and on a street that was littered with fallen trees, roofing material and other building parts torn off in the typhoon's fury. All that was left of one large building whose walls were smashed in were the skeletal remains of its rafters.ABS-CBN television anchor Ted Failon, who was able to report only briefly Friday from Tacloban, said the storm surge was 'like the tsunami in Japan'.'The sea engulfed Tacloban,' he said, explaining that a major part of the city is surrounded on three sides by the waters between Leyte and Samar islands.  
Workers: Local Red Cross staff place sand bags on the roof of a house in  Danang, Vietnam
 Before he left Tacloban today, Failon said he saw people like a 'pack of rats' looting a department store taking whatever they could lay their hands on including refrigerators and TV sets. TV footage showed a group of men smiling as they walked away with a large ice cream freezer and other goods.Relief workers today said they are having
 difficulties delivering food and other supplies, with roads blocked by 
landslides and fallen trees. The Philippines is made up of more than 7,000 islands, so delivering aid can take up to two or tree days.  
 Red Cross chief Gwendolyn Pang said they struggled to deliver aid in the adverse conditions.She said: 'We've had reports of uprooted trees, very strong winds and houses made of light materials being damaged'We
 have put rescue teams and equipment at different places, but at the 
moment we can't really do much because of the heavy rain and strong 
winds. There is no power'.Mrs Pang added the death toll, which is said to have exceeded 1,000, was just an 'estimate'.  Interior Secretary Mar Roxas said the enormous rescue operation was still ongoing. He added: 'We expect a very high number of fatalities as well as injured. All systems, all vestiges of modern living - communications, power, water - all are down. Media is down, so there is no way to communicate with the people in a mass sort of way.' Ben Webster, disaster response 
manager for the Red Cross, added: 'Preparedness is strengthening over the
 years as agencies become more proficient at preparing for disasters, 
technology is improving so we can forecast a bit more reliably, so it is
 getting better in terms of preparation.'But
 there are still hundreds of thousands of families likely to have been 
impacted, and even if the loss of life isn't as high as it usually is, 
these are still people who need homes and livelihoods which will have 
been impacted by this huge storm. 
  
Debris: Helicopters hover over the damaged area of Tacloban city, which was battered with strong winds yesterday
 
   
Destroyed: Typhoon Haiyan also badly damaged an airport, pictured, in battered Tacloban city - which could affect deliveries of essential aid supplies
  
Disaster zone: This map shows the trajectory of the devastating storm as it heads towards Vietnam 
  
Washed up: Filipino soldiers disembark from a plane stopped at the devastated airport in Tacloban city, Leyte  
Ruin: A man wipes his face while surveying the damage to one area of Tacloban. Branches from trees can be seen strewn across the land
  
Victim: A resident walks past dead bodies that lie on the street in Tacloban city, Leyte province'The
 British Red Cross launched an appeal yesterday which the public can 
support. We have already released £100,000 yesterday which will support 
relief items, 10,000 tarpaulins were sent from Kuala Lumpur, and 2,000 
hygiene parcels as well.'The
 whole international Red Cross movement will be mobilising to support 
the Philippines Red Cross and the International Federation in country to
 be able to respond to the situation.'Marie Madamba-Nunez of Oxfam, which 
has already dispatched aid to the Philippines, said: 'Making sure people
 have clean water, safe sanitation and a roof over peoples heads will be
 an immediate priority.'These
 disasters compound the burden of Philippines' poorest people. Small 
scale farmers and those relying on fishing to make a living will be 
hardest hit. Their fields and their boats and tackle will be badly 
damaged and they will need help not only today but in months to come.'Economic
 solutions to root out poverty and inequality must be paired with 
minimising the risk of poor communities to the vagaries of weather and 
climate change.' 
  
Under water: Residents wade through a flooded street in Mindoro, Philippines this morning following the typoon
   
Pile up: Vehicles and rubbish are pictured strewn across a flooded street in Tacloban, Leyte  
Upside down: A devastated airport in Tacloban city, Leyte province - where roofs were ripped on hundreds of houses
    
 

 

 
Shock: These two pictures show the devastation in Coron, Palawan where buildings have been flattened, left and right, leaving residents helplessly walking the streets.
 
  




'We thought is was a Tsunami' - panic as storm lashes Philippines








more videos










1


2


3


4


















Watch video
                
Terrifying video shows trained terrorists gunning down...






Watch video
                
Adorable moment twin babies lock eyes for the first time






Watch video
                
It's pug vs baby in power struggle over dog bed










Watch video
                
Harrowing Instagram video captures audio of gunfire in Paris






Watch video
                
Two best friends: Monkey and baby in adorable friendship






Watch video
                
Cute Siberian Husky scared of talking toy Furby










Watch video
                
Kai the abandoned dog settles in at rehoming centre






Watch video
                
Terrifying sounds of gunshots from rooftop above Paris...






Watch video
                
Has Bigfoot been caught on camera in the Maine forest?










Watch video
                
Moment off-duty cop accidentally shoots himself in front of...






Watch video
                
Meet 23-year-old Augusto Deoliveira the magical dog trainer






Watch video
                
Biden compliments Orrin Hatch's granddaughter on her looks















Save the Children said up to 7,000 
schools could have been damaged by Haiyan, as the aid agency battles to 
reach the hardest hit areas.The charity's country director Anna Lindenfors said: 'We
 are very concerned for the poorest and most vulnerable children in some
 of the hardest hit places like Tacloban where there is likely to be 
catastrophic damage, especially to the homes of the poorest people who 
live in buildings made from flimsy materials.''While
 the immediate focus must be on saving lives, we are also extremely 
worried that thousands of schools will have been knocked out of action 
or badly affected by the typhoon.'In
 the worst hit areas this will have a terrible impact on children's 
education and it will be important that we help them back to school as 
quickly as possible.'Speaking in the aftermath of the 
storm Paul Knightley, forecast manager at MeteoGroup, described Haiyan 
as 'one of the strongest typhoons ever seen before on the planet in the 
modern age'. 
Space: A digital composite of Typhoon Haiyan approaching the Philippines, made using images captured geostationary satellites of the Japan Meteorological Agency 
Rebuilding their lives: Two men in Iloilo move some of their belongings through flood waters covering the streets 
Assessment: A resident of Manila looks at the damage to his home. Poorer families with less stable houses were the worst affected, according to reports  
Carrying on: Despite the devastation Filipinos have emerged from their shelters today to begin the recovery effort. Some used motorcycles to ford the flood waters
  
Devastation: Debris which was washed in by the storm litters the road by the coastal village in Legazpi city. Residents now face a long clean up operation
  'It is an 
incredibly powerful storm, which has now moved through the Philippines. 
No doubt we will see all sorts of damage has been caused.'As
 far as tropical storms go, this is about the top of the ladder. To get 
winds approaching 200mph as an average wind speed within the storm - 
you're talking the top few percent of all storms that have ever 
occurred. 'It may be one of the - if not the - strongest land-falling storm we've seen for many years, possibly in recorded history.'The
 storm brought further misery to thousands of residents of Bohol who had
 been camped in tents and other makeshift shelters after a magnitude 7.2
 earthquake struck the island last month.At least 
5,000 survivors were still living in tents on the island, and they were moved
 to schools that had been turned into evacuation centres.  
Assistance: People queue for relief goods on the eastern island of Leyte this morning
 
 

 

 
Hanging on: A fisherman in Manila is forced to 
cling on to his equipment, left,  while there was little hope for other 
less stable buildings in the storm's path, right
    
Higher ground: Residents of  Legaspi, Albay province, south of Manila resident, were forced to flee the coast as Haiyan continued to pound the sea wall today
 Speaking yesterday, Roger Mercado, 
governor of Southern 
Leyte, an island off the coast off the popular tourist region of Cebu, 
told how dense clouds and heavy rains turned day into night.‘When
 you’re faced with such a scenario, you can only pray and pray and 
pray,’ he said, as weather forecasters warned of ‘catastrophic’ damage.The governor added: ‘My worst fear is that there will be many massive loss of lives and property.’In preparation for the typhoon, officials
 in Cebu province shut down electric services to the northern part 
of the province to avoid electrocutions in case power pylons are 
toppled, said assistant regional civil defence chief Flor Gaviola. 
   
     
Downpour: As well as strong winds, the typhoon brought with it torrential rain which caused landslides in rural parts of the country 
Terrifying: Residents run for their lives as the terrible gusts of the typhoon buffet the popular tourist city of Cebu. Trees and roofs were torn off by the storm 
Blocked: Residents clear the road in the island province of Cebu after a tree was toppled by strong winds during typhoon Haiyan 
  
  President
 Benigno Aquino assured the public of war-like preparations, with three 
C-130 air force cargo planes and 32 military helicopters and planes on 
standby, along with 20 navy ships.Authorities
 halted ferry services and fishing operations, while nearly 200 local 
flights had been suspended. Commuter bus services were also stopped as 
the storm dumped torrential rain and ripped iron roofs off buildings and
 houses.Schools, offices 
and shops in the central Philippines were closed, with hospitals, 
soldiers and emergency workers on standby for rescue operations.'We
 can hear the winds howling but the rains are not too strong. We have 
encountered several distress calls regarding fallen trees and power 
lines cut. We don't have power now,' Samar Vice Governor Stephen James 
Tan said in a radio interview yesterday.An average of 20 major storms or typhoons, many of them deadly, hit the Philippines each year.  
Aid effort: Volunteers pack relief goods inside a Department of Social Welfare and Development warehouse before shipping out to devastated provinces
  
  
  
Shelter: Filipino residents sleep on the floor of a gymnasium turned into an evacuation center in Sorsogon City in the Bicol region   The
 developing country is particularly vulnerable because it is often the 
first major landmass for the storms after they build over the Pacific 
Ocean.The Philippine government and some scientists have said climate change may be increasing the ferocity and frequency of storms.Others say Pacific waters were an important reason for the strength of 
Haiyan, but added it was premature to blame climate change based on the 
scanty historical data available.The
 poverty-stricken country has already endured a year of 
earthquakes and floods, with no fewer than 24 disastrous weather events.The Philippines 
suffered the world's strongest storm of 2012, when Typhoon Bopha left 
about 2,000 people dead or missing on the southern island of Mindanao.  
Helpless: People look on as their village hall in Iloilo province is washed into the flood waters
  
Evacuations: Residents living near the slopes of Mayon volcano are evacuated to public schools by police in anticipation of the powerful typhoon Haiyan
   
Looking for cover: Filipino residents climb into a makeshift shelter at a coastal village in Las Pinas city, south of Manila 
  The Philippines has known disaster at the hands of mother nature as recently as 2011 when typhoon Washi killed 
1,200 people, displaced 300,000 and destroyed more than 10,000 homes.In

 September, category-five typhoon Usagi, with winds gusting of up to 149
 mph, battered the northern island of Batanes before causing 
damage in southern China.Bopha
 last year flattened three coastal towns on the southern island of 
Mindanao, killing 1,100 people and wreaking damage estimated at $1.04 
billion. Cambodian 
authorities said they were closely watching the development of the 
world's biggest storm to materialise.Storm trackers have predicted the storm could reach China on Tuesday, but the wind speeds will have dropped to between 25 and 35mph.  
  
 


Share or comment on this article

























This isn't your main story, so god damn shameful
by One20ne

2408














MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS

Previous
1
2
Next

 



Terrifying video shows trained terrorists gunning down...





Adorable moment twin babies lock eyes for the first time





It's pug vs baby in power struggle over dog bed





Harrowing Instagram video captures audio of gunfire in Paris





Two best friends: Monkey and baby in adorable friendship





Cute Siberian Husky scared of talking toy Furby





Kai the abandoned dog settles in at rehoming centre





Terrifying sounds of gunshots from rooftop above Paris...





Has Bigfoot been caught on camera in the Maine forest?





Moment off-duty cop accidentally shoots himself in front of...





Meet 23-year-old Augusto Deoliveira the magical dog trainer





Biden compliments Orrin Hatch's granddaughter on her looks























Teenage suspect 'arrested after handing himself into police'...





Miss BumBum contestant and Brazilian TV presenter reveals...





Je suis Charlie! The cry of defiance: Vast crowds rally...





They stood defiantly for freedom of speech... and paid the...





A message from 'His Excellency' Sam Adams and 'The Most...





Father arrested for hosting drunken Playboy Mansion-themed...





Charlie Hebdo cartoonist reveals terrorists threatened to...





'We warned them': Shocking moment angry Mexican mob tired of...





Pictured: Prince Andrew surrounded by topless women on Thai...





Mother's shock as her baby girl is born with two front teeth





Death of a hero live on their mobile phones: Passersby...





'Miss you and all that goes with it': Racy messages 60...




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
Next

●
●


 












Comments (988)

                                	Share what you think
                                







Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated




 View all



The comments below have not been moderated.





                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.


Who is this week's top commenter?
Find out now







More top stories



























Next story



      Teenage suspect 'arrested after handing himself into police' over Paris magazine massacre that left 12 dead - as anti-terror unit raids building in hunt for two brothers 'trained in Yemen as assassins'
    







6.4k comments
    






9 videos
    










	SHARE PICTURE
      














Copy link to paste in your message





















Find out more...






Find out more...



























 
 
Back to top






Home




U.K.




News




Sports




U.S. Showbiz




Australia




Femail




Health




Science




Money




Video




Travel




Columnists







Sitemap
Archive
Video Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Our Papers
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
Evening Standard
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location
Villa Holidays


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies













 




 











 
 

















