Nepal earthquake: Bihar worst-hit with 45 deaths, 12 killed in UP and 3 in Bengal
Nepal earthquake: Bihar worst-hit with 45 deaths, 12 killed in UP and 3 in Bengal










Skip to main content




 












 





ePaper

 




 

 
 






 




Wednesday, May 20, 2015 | Last Update : 02:44 AM IST 

 






Search form

Search 





 




PrayersPrayersHijri CalendarRajjab 29,1436 AHPrayersFajar: 4.35 amZohar: 12.22 pmAsar: 4.44pmMaghrib: 6.47pmIsha: 8.02 pmSunset today 6.42 pmsunrise tomorrow 5.43 amMoonrise tomorrow 6.41 amMoonset today 7.56 pm 





Log In
Username *



Password *


Create new accountRequest new password

 

 





TRENDING TOPICS:#Rahul Gandhi#Telangana#Jayalalithaa#Narendra Modi#China#IPL 8 

 
 






Main menu

HomeNationCrimeCurrent AffairsPoliticsInterviewsEducationworldNEIGHBOURSASIAAFRICAAMERICASEUROPEMIDDLE EASTSouthTelanganaAndhra PradeshTamil NaduKarnatakaKeralaEntertainmentBollywoodHollywoodKollywoodMollywoodSandalwoodTollywoodTV/MusicMovie ReviewsSportsCricketFootballTennisMotor SportsOther SportsBusinessAUTOSCOMPANIESECONOMICSLATESTMARKETCorporate NewsOpinionTechnologyGADGETSLATESTMOBILES AND TABSSCIENCE and TRENDSLifestyleHealth & WellbeingRelationshipsFashion/BeautyFoodTravelAstroguideBooks/ArtPets/EnvironmentOffbeatGalleryMatrimonial 

 












You are hereHome » Nation » Current AffairsNepal earthquake: Bihar worst-hit with 45 deaths, 12 killed in UP and 3 in Bengal

PTI |   April 25, 2015, 21.04 pm IST











Share











Tweet











Printer-friendly version

Send by email





		A portion of a residential building collapses following a tremor in Siliguri (Photo: PTI)	
 New Delhi: At least 60 people have been killed and more than 100 people have been injured in India due to the powerful earthquake that struck neighbouring Nepal.A government official in Bihar said at least 45 were dead and 133 injured in the seven districts that share a border with Nepal. 12 people were killed in Uttar Pradesh and three in West Bengal. Five NDRF teams have been sent to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to aid rescue.Vacations for all government doctors have been cancelled to ensure that anyone injured gets adequate medical care, says UP official.Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar said all resources are being mobilised to help the Himalayan country.Live: Historic Dharahara Tower in ruins, at least 2 killed as 7.9 earthquake hits NepalHe said IAF has been pressed into service to take NDRF teams, doctors, clothes, medicines, water among others to Nepal, where nearly 1,500 people were killed after a powerful earthquake measuring 7.9 on Richter scale struck earlier in the day."As directed by Prime Minister, we have mobilised all resources to support Nepal. We have at present diverted three aircraft and two helicopters to carry NDRF team, doctors, food, water and medicine among others to Nepal," Parrikar said.Read: Nepal earthquake: Baba Ramdev has a narrow escape, to stay in Kathmandu for relief workHe added that Army chief Gen Dalbir Singh is in touch with his Nepalese counterpart to extend any help that the nation might need as part of search and rescue operations.Talking about the situation in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other affected states, Parrikar said he has directed all Army units and others to carry out rescue operation and extend full cooperation to local authorities.As the news of the tragic earthquake in Nepal came in, the Defence Ministry had immediately put the Army, BRO and IAF assets on standby.Read: Nepal earthquake: Flights to Kathmandu put on holdIndian Air Force's C-130J Super Hercules has already landed at Kathmandu carrying 39 NDRF personnel and 3.5 tonnes of relief material.Defence sources said two Indian Army field hospitals and two Engineers Task Force teams have been put on emergency standby to leave for Nepal.A C-17 heavy jet aircraft with 40 rapid action medical team (RAMT) personnel and paramedics has also being pressed into service.Indian Embassy in Nepal: 977-1-4410900 / 4414990 / 441169924x7, Emergency Contact Number - 977-1-4423702Mobile no: 9851107021New DelhiHigh intensity quake shook the national capital and adjoining areas prompting people to rush out of offices and homes and leading to restriction of metro services. However, no loss of life or property damage was reported in any part of the city.According to a senior Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) official, services were not suspended but were put on restricted mode by slowing the speed of the metro trains, causing a little delay in the services.The DMRC claimed that so far they have not received any reports of damage or crack in the metro line. We will carry out inspection to check if earthquake caused any damage to the property, the official said.Read: Tremors in coastal Andhra Pradesh after powerful quake hits Nepal and IndiaAccording to a senior government official, all emergency support functionaries including police, civic agencies, hospitals and fire services have been alerted.Civil defence volunteers have been alerted and instructed to do patrolling in their areas, the official said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed the people to maintain calm.Earthquake tremors in Delhi. I appeal to people to maintain calm. Officials out in the field to assess the situation.— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) April 25, 2015The netizens also shared their experiences on the social media and the hashtag #earthquake was trending.Some residents also complained of mobile network congestion as they were trying to reach their friends and relatives soon after the earthquake. Read: ‘Please stay safe,’ sporting world prays after 7.9-magnitude earthquake hits NepalUttar PradeshAt least 12 persons were killed and over a dozen injured as major parts of Uttar Pradesh felt tremors resulting in collapse of buildings and walls. While three deaths were reported from Barabanki district adjoining the state capital, two were reported from Gorakhpur and one from Sant Kabir Nagar. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav has announced a financial assistance of rupees five lakh to the kin of those killed in the earthquake, Rs 50,000 to grievously injured and Rs 20,000 to those having minor injuries, an official spokesman said here. Read: Nepal earthquake: Narendra Modi speaks to CM’s of various states, convenes high-level meeting According to reports from Barabanki district, a woman and two children were killed when an under-construction wall collapsed in Basantapur village in Mohammadpur Khala area. In Gorakhpur, two persons, including a two and a half year old child, were killed, police said. Similarly, an eight-year-old girl Khushboo was killed when a house collapsed in Purwa village in Mehdawal area in Sant Kabir Nagar. Besides, strong vibrations were felt in Etah, Farukkhabad, Noida, Pratapgarh, Mainpuri, Hathras, Aligarh, Varanasi, Sultanpur, Rae Bareli, Faizabad, Firozabad and several other districts.RajasthanIn Rajasthan, the tremors were felt in Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Ajmer, Sikar and Bundi. In Jaipur, people in Bapu Nagar, Barkat Nagar, Sodala and Jhotwara rushed out of their buildings in panic. However, no loss to life or property was reported. No loss of life or property was reported from anywhere in Haryana and Punjab, which also felt the tremors.Read: Historic Dharara Tower collapses in Kathmandu after 7.9 earthquakeWest BengalThe tremors of the earthquake which had its epicentre in Nepal region was felt in the city and other parts of the Eastern region. Hundreds of people ran out of their homes and offices and assembled on the streets. The tremors were felt in various parts of the city especially in Lake Town, Salt Lake, Dalhousie and Park Street area. Reports from the districts said it was also experienced in Purulia, Bankura, Burdwan, East Midnapore and Nadia district.Three persons were killed and atleast 69, including 43 school children, were injured while several buildings developed cracks in West Bengal after a high intensity earthquake rocked several parts of the country and Nepal today.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the "extensive damage" caused by the earthquake.The chief minister who chaired a high-level meeting to take stock of the situation at Nabanna, the state secretariat, told reporters that three persons lost their lives in the earthquake in north Bengal.A person identified as M Rai was killed in Jalpaiguri, while another Rukban Khatun was killed in Naxalbari in Darjeeling district. The third person, a construction worker was killed in Siliguri.Officials and crew in offshore rigs in Bay of Bengal including several places like Kakinada, P.Gannavaram, Amalapuram, Mummidivaram, Katrenikona and other places felt tremors. According to offshore sources, it occurred around 11.44 am about five to six seconds. The crew in offshore rigs and oil exploration company employees sent messages and whatsapp messages to their bosses and their colleagues on the earthquake. One of the message is that severe earthquake felt at filed by jack up rigs’.Read: Panic as earthquake jolts Bangladesh, 2 dead hundreds injuredN.Kiran Kumar, an offshore services businessman who is residing at Wood rose apartments. Some of the people felt that their blood pressure has been increased at once as they felt it.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that state government is monitoring the situation closely and urged people to stay calm in the wake of the earthquake.We are monitoring situation closely in Bengal specially in Darjeeling/Siliguri. Spoke to Sr Disaster Management team & others #earthquake— Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) April 25, 2015"My prayers with the people of Nepal and across India after the massive earthquake. Hope everyone is safe. Stay calm," she said in the micro-blogging site.My prayers with the people of #Nepal and across India after the massive #earthquake. Hope everyone is safe. Stay calm— Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) April 25, 2015BiharAt least 45 persons were killed and 133 injured in roof and wall collapse in Bihar. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar cut short his visit to New Delhi to reach state. Kumar spoke to Chief Secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, state police chief P K Thakur and directed them to alert people particularly of areas bordering Nepal.The DGP said that in deference of the CM's direction, all police heads of the districts have been directed to send alerts to police stations on wireless and assess the extent of damage.Speaker of Bihar Assembly Uday Narayan Choudhary and Minister Shyam Rajak ran out in the open during a programme at Kurji Holy Hospital in the state capital.KochiLow intensity tremor was also felt in some parts of Kochi, triggering panic among people residing in high rise buildings, officials said.Officials said experts in the Seismology Department are assessing whether it was an after effect of the high-intensity quake that rocked Delhi and many parts of East and North India."According to information, it was a low intensity earthquake of magnitude less than three on the Richter scale. Initial inputs say that mild tremors were felt some parts of Kochi city," Ernakulam Additional District Magistrate B Ramachandran said.OdishaTremors were felt in several parts of Odisha triggering panic among the people.The intensity in Odisha was about two MMI (Modified Mercalli Intensity) scale, about 875 km north-north-west of Bhubaneswar, MeT officials said.Apart from the state capital of Bhubaneswar, the tremor was felt in Cuttack, Balasore, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Kendrapara, Mayurbhanj, Berhampur, Khurda and Sambalpur, according to reports reaching here.People in high-rise buildings in the state capital and other places were seen moving out as they noticed furniture and ceiling fans were swaying.SikkimA series of minor landslides have been reported from various places in the state they said, but there was no report of any loss of life so far, officials said.Sikkim has been experiencing minor jolts continuously for the past three days, met department said.ManipurThe tremor, which shook the East and other parts of India, was also felt in Manipur also.There was no report of casualties or damage to property in the quake, a state official said. The quake was felt at 11:40 am. Pages12next ›last »Tags: Nepal earthquakeIndiaearthquakeWorld 
Nepal Earthquake: Indian Air Force rescues mountaineers 




Loading... Please Wait
 









 

1/41New Delhi: Relief material is loaded into an Indian Air Force aircraft headed to Nepal (Photo: PTI)






 

2/41A man approaches the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepa. An avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake in Nepal smashed into a base camp between the Khumbu Icefall, a notoriously treacherous rugged area of collapsed ice and snow, and the base camp where most climbing expeditions are, said Ang Tshering of the Nepal Mountaineering Association (Photo: AP)






 

3/41People approach the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal (Photo: AP)






 

4/41Nightfall after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal (Photo: AP)






 

5/41The scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp (Photo: AP)






 

6/41Tents are seen set up for climbers on the Khumbu Glacier, with Mount Khumbutse, center, and Khumbu Icefall, right, seen in background, at Everest Base Camp in Nepal. (Photo: AP)






 

7/41Climbers and guides carry an injured after an avalanche struck Everest Base Camp in Nepal (Photo: AP)






 

8/41People try to lift the debris from a temple at Hanumandhoka Durbar Square after an earthquake in Kathmandu, capital of Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley before noon Saturday, causing extensive damage with toppled walls and collapsed buildings, officials said. (Photo: AP)






 

9/41People gather beside damaged buildings after an earthquake in Kathmandu, capital of Nepal, Saturday, April 25, 2015. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley (Photo: AP)






 

10/41Laxmi Shristha, Marium Chhetri, left to right, Gayatri Sharma, Talence Dhakal and his mother, Karuna Dhakal, take part in a prayer service for victims of the Nepal earthquake Saturday, April 25, 2015 at International Nepali Church in Irving, Texas (Photo: AP)






 

11/41Sabnam Shmesth, right, is overcome with emotion as she takes part in a prayer service for victims of the Nepal earthquake Saturday, April 25, 2015 at International Nepali Church in Irving, Texas. (Photo: AP)






 

12/41A powerful earthquake struck Nepal Saturday, killing at least 686 people, as the violently shaking earth collapsed houses, leveled centuries-old temples and triggered avalanches in the Himalayas. It was the worst temblor to hit the nation in over 80 years. This is before and after pictures of the historic Durbar Square in Nepal. Photo: AP/PTI






 

13/41One hundred and eighty one people have died in Kathmandu, the Nepal government has said. Thirty people have died so far in neighbouring countries, over 20 in India.






 

14/41The quake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.9 struck before noon and was most severely felt in the capital as well as the densely populated Kathmandu Valley. 






 

15/41A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to ripple through the region for hours.






 

16/41Deaths have been reported from all parts of Nepal except the far west. All security personnel have been deploywed to rescue and assist those in need, national police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam told AFP.






 

17/41An official from Nepal's mountaineering department said bodies of eight people have been recovered on Mount Everst after the massive earthquake triggered an avalanche. Gyanendra Shretha said an unknown number of people remain missing or injured.






 

18/41Earlier the country's Home Ministry had said one Chinese citizen was killed on the border, two in Bangladesh and six in Tibet in the quake. Dozens of people with injuries were being brought to the main hospital in central Kathmandu.






 

19/41Pushpa Das, a labourer, ran from the house when the first quake struck but could not escape a collapsing wall that injured his arm. "It was very scary. The earth was moving... I am waiting for treatment but the (hospital) staff is overwhelmed," he said, gingerly holding his right arm with his left hand. 






 

20/41The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh.






 

21/41Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a meeting of top government officials to review the damage and disaster preparedness in parts of India that felt strong tremors. 






 

22/41The states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Sikkim, which share a border with Nepal, have reported building damage. There have also been reports of damage in the northeastern state of Assam.






 

23/41China said two of its citizen was killed at the Nepal-China border. Television reports from Bangladesh said 2 people were killed and about 100 injured. The Tibetan government said six people were killed in Tibet.






 

24/41A senior mountaineering guide, Ang Tshering, said an avalanche swept the face of Mt. Everest after the earthquake, and government officials said at least 30 people were injured.






 

25/41Tshering of the Nepal Mountaineering Association said the avalanche apparently occurred between the Khumbu Icefall, a rugged area of collapsed ice and snow, and the base camp where most climbing expeditions have their main camps. (backslash)






 

26/41While details are unclear with communications limited to the Everest region, Tshering said the avalanche did not appear to have hit the base camp itself.






 

27/41The quake's epicenter was 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu, and it had a depth of only 11 kilometers (7 miles), which is considered shallow in geological terms. The shallower the quake the more destructive power it carries.






 

28/41As the ground began to shake, several buildings collapsed in the center of the capital, the ancient Old Kathmandu, including centuries-old temples and towers, said resident Prachanda Sual.






 

29/41Among them was the Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu's landmarks built by Nepal's royal rulers in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.






 

30/41The Kathmandu Valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million people, and the quality of buildings is often poor.






 

31/41While the extent of the damage and the scale of the disaster are yet to be ascertained, the quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of this poor country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. 






 

32/41The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, is heavily dependent on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.






 

33/41Robin Trygg, a climber, was in a basecamp on the Cho Oyu mountain at an altitude of 5,600 meters (18,480 feet) when he felt the quake. "We were sitting in the tent and drinking tea when all of a sudden the earth began shaking. We didn't understand what happened," he told the Swedish news agency TT by telephone.






 

34/41In Kathmandu, dozens of people were gathered in the parking lot of Norvic International Hospital, where thin mattresses were spread on the ground for patients rushed outside, some wearing hospital pajamas.






 

35/41The U.S. Geological Survey revised the magnitude from 7.5 to 7.9 and said the quake hit at 11:56 a.m. local time (0611 GMT) at Lamjung. It was the largest shallow quake since the 8.2 temblor off the coast of Chile on April 1, 2014.






 

36/41An earthquake's power increases by 10 times with each increase in the number of its scale. A magnitude 7 quake is capable of widespread and heavy damage while an 8 magnitude quake can cause tremendous damage.






 

37/41People rest on the debri at the royal square. It housed the old royal palaces and was a recognised as a UNESCO world heritage site. 






 

38/41A rescue worker attempts to remove the debris at a site to retrieve a dead body.  






 

39/41Rescue workers look for trapped victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu.  






 

40/41volunteers work to remove the debris at  the site of the historic Dharahara tower, which collapsed after the earthquake. 






 

41/41An injured child receives medical attention outside a hospital at Kathmandu. The hospitals have reached capacity and tratment is being offered at the yards. 



 
 












Also Read
Prince William and wife Kate's second child due in April


From Iraqi mountaintop, a fierce battle to free Islamic State-held town


Ecuador volcano spews 6-mile ash column


35 killed in Afghan suicide blast

 

Write a comment

Your name 



Your Comment (Minimum 30 Characters) *




CAPTCHAThis question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.






 


 

 





 




 





 




 



































Bride
Groom






18 - 24
25 - 30
31 - 35
36 - 40
41+













 



Latest news




  
 ‘I hope I get to do a Piku once in my career’ 
  Rakul Preet Singh talks about her upcoming films, friends in Tollywood
   

  
 ‘I hope I get to do a Piku once in my career’ 
  Rakul Preet Singh talks about her upcoming films, friends in Tollywood
   

  
 ‘Sourav can justify any role’ says Dona Ganguly 
  ‘There is no such appointment at the moment’ - BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur
   


More 
 




 




 




 




 










 




 

 
 







 

 
 








Sections

Nation
Entertainment
Sports
Lifestyle
Commentary
Galleries
 



Channels

Politics
Sport
Lifestyle
Showbiz
 



Specials


DC 50
Astroguide
Investor's Desk
Classifieds
 



MOBILE APPS


Android
Blackberry
IphoneIpad
Windows
 



Follow us

Facebook
Twitter
 







 






Home
Asian Age
Andhrabhoomi
Financial Chronicle
About Us
Book Classifieds
Contact Us
Feedback
E-Paper
 

 





      Copyright © 2015 Deccan Chronicle. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Deccan Chronicle Service    











 
 
  





