Super typhoon 'Yolanda' enters PAR | Nation, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com
Super typhoon 'Yolanda' enters PAR | Nation, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com


Skip to main content





Main menuThe Philippine Star
Pilipino Star Ngayon
The Freeman
Pang-Masa
Banat
 
 







philstar.com



            Philippine News for the Filipino Global Community           
 





Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 







Thu | 01/08/2015 11:36am | Forex: $1:45.045 




Search form

Search 





 






Follow Us: 










Follow @PhilstarNews



















 


 


Secondary menuHome
Headlines
Opinion
Nation
World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Other Sections
 
 

Secondary sub-menuTop Stories
Congress
Metro Manila
Luzon
Visayas
Mindanao
Bill Tracker
  
 






Nation Skinning Left, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1




 


 















 



Nation ( Leaderboard Top ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 


 




                Super typhoon 'Yolanda' enters PAR              




 By Louis Bacani (philstar.com)  | Updated November 7, 2013 - 12:45am














PAGASA track of Typhoon "Yolanda" as of 8 p.m., November 6.





MANILA, Philippines - Public storm warning signal no. 1 has been hoisted over several areas after Typhoon "Yolanda" (international name: Haiyan) gained more strength and entered the Philippine Area of Responsibility, the state weather agency said Wednesday night.
As of 12 a.m., PAGASA said Yolanda was located at 943 kilometers east of Hinatuan, Surigao del Sur bearing maximum sustained winds of 195 kilometers per hour near the center and gustiness of up to 230 kph.
The 24th typhoon to hit the country this year is expected to move west northwest at 30 kph.
Thirteen areas in the Visayas and Mindanao have been placed under storm signal no. 1:
Visayas
	Northern Samar
	Eastern Samar
	Samar
	Leyte
	Southern Leyte
	Biliran Island
	Camotes Island
Mindanao
	Surigao Del Norte
	Siargao Island
	Dinagat Island
	Surigao Del Sur
	Agusan Del Norte
	Northern part of Agusan Del Sur

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 

PAGASA said heavy to intense rainfall (10 to 30 millimeter per hour) is expected within the 600-kilometer diameter of the typhoon.
A rainfall advisory issued at 12:33 a.m., Thursday said moderate to occasional heavy rains are already affecting Surigao Del Norte, Surigao del Sur, Agusan del Norte, Zamboanga City and Basilan.
The state weather bureau has warned that Yolanda can still intensify since it is still on sea.
The agency said Yolanda is even more powerful than the deadly Typhoon Pablo that slammed Mindanao last year.
International weather agencies have already labelled Yolanda as a super typhoon, though PAGASA is not officially using such category.
Related stories: 'Yolanda' now a super typhoon; may be stronger than 'Pablo' that killed 1000
PAGASA: 'Yolanda' could be strongest typhoon to hit Phl this year
PAGASA had said in previous forecasts that Yolanda is expected to make landfall on Friday over Eastern Visayas or Samar-Leyte area and then barrel through the Visayas.
The typhoon is expected to be at 423 kilometers east Southeast of Guiuan, Eastern Samar by tomorrow evening and at 55 kilometers southeast of Romblon Island by Friday evening.
By Saturday evening, it is expected to be at 527 kilometers west northwest of Coron, Palawan. 






 



Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 








Click here to join the discussion



Follow Us: 










Follow @PhilstarNews



















 





 


More Nation



  
 Issue TRO vs LRT fare hike, SC urged  

 LTFRB now accepts e-jeepney franchise applications 

 Sayyaf hitman nabbed in Basilan    

 North Cotabato execs, kin confident of MJ Lastimosa’s Miss Universe win   

 Boy, 7, kidnapped by Abu Sayyaf in Sulu   

 US drone unarmed – AFP   

 Cudia asks SC anew to act on petition vs PMA dismissal   

 11 hurt in Pangasinan road mishaps   

 Man nabbed for raping stepdaughters   

 YEARENDER 2014 disasters: Typhoon belt shifts to Visayas   
 
 


Sections


Home

Headlines

Opinion

Nation

World

Business

Sports

Entertainment

Lifestyle

Other Sections
 


Feedback

View the discussion thread. 






 








LATEST NEWS
TRENDING



14 more Ampatuan clan members charged in massacreJanuary 8, 2015 - 11:29am
Issue TRO vs LRT fare hike, SC urged January 8, 2015 - 11:07am
Binay camp demands apology from TrillanesJanuary 8, 2015 - 10:57am
Philippines condemns Paris terror attackJanuary 8, 2015 - 10:53am
PHOTOS: Mardi Gras countdown starts amid huge, bright parade floats January 8, 2015 - 10:35am

View more » 









 



Nation ( Button Ad ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 



Nation ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 



Nation ( Skyscraper 1 ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 


Social Spotlight



 


 

 




Nation Skinning Right, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1




 


 

 
 







About UsContact UsAdvertise With UsSubscribe to Newspaper

Site MapPrivacy PolicyMember AgreementCopyright Notice

		6TH Floor, RFM Corporate Center Pioneer St., Mandaluyong City Philippines
		Tel. No. (632) 637-5400
		For advertising concerns: email advertising@philstar.com
		For marketing concerns: email marketing@philstar.com

 


 
 







the philippine star

			|

pilipino star ngayon

			|

the freeman

			|

pang-masa

			|

banat

			|

people asia


	Copyright © 2012. Philstar. All Right Reserved
 


 
 










