PAGASA: 'Yolanda' could be strongest typhoon to hit Phl this year | Nation, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com
PAGASA: 'Yolanda' could be strongest typhoon to hit Phl this year | Nation, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com


Skip to main content





Main menuThe Philippine Star
Pilipino Star Ngayon
The Freeman
Pang-Masa
Banat
 
 







philstar.com



            Philippine News for the Filipino Global Community           
 





Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 







Thu | 01/08/2015 11:37am | Forex: $1:45.045 




Search form

Search 





 






Follow Us: 










Follow @PhilstarNews



















 


 


Secondary menuHome
Headlines
Opinion
Nation
World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Other Sections
 
 

Secondary sub-menuTop Stories
Congress
Metro Manila
Luzon
Visayas
Mindanao
Bill Tracker
  
 






Nation Skinning Left, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1




 


 















 



Nation ( Leaderboard Top ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 


 




                PAGASA: 'Yolanda' could be strongest typhoon to hit Phl this year              




 By Louis Bacani (philstar.com)  | Updated November 6, 2013 - 5:43pm














PAGASA's forecast track of Typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan) as of 5 p.m. Wednesday, November 6, 2013.




MANILA, Philippines - Typhoon "Haiyan," which will be locally named "Yolanda," continues to intensify further as it moves closer to the Philippines, the state weather bureau said Wednesday afternoon.
At a televised press briefing, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) said the typhoon was last observed at 1,221 kilometers east Mindanao as of 4 p.m.
Yolanda is already packing maximum sustained winds of 175 kilometers per hour near the center and gusts of up to 210 kph.
Moving west northwest at 30 kilometers, Yolanda is expected to enter the Philippine Area of Responsibility on Thursday morning.
"Baka pinakamalakas na bagyo this year na papasok dito sa Philippine Area of Responsibility," said Dr. Flaviana Hilario, acting deputy administrator research and development of PAGASA.
Hilario said so far, the 24th typhoon to enter the country this year already has intense rainfall amount of about 30 millimeters per hour.

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 

The agency said Yolanda may still gain strength since its still over sea.
Yolanda is expected to make landfall over Eastern Visayas or Samar-Leyte area between 12 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Friday.
Weather forecaster Christopher Perez said storm warning signal no. 1 will be initially raised over Eastern Visayas once Yolanda enters the country.
Robert Sawi, officer-in-charge of the PAGASA weather division, said storm signal no. 4 may be hoisted in some areas if Yolanda's maximum winds reaches more than 185 kph.
These are the Samar provinces, Masbate, Romblon, northern Panay, and Mindoro area.
"Sobrang lakas na ito baka halos wala nang matirang puno sa lugar if ever ganun kataas ang signal," Sawi said.
Yolanda will traverse the Visayas-Mimaropa area and cross the areas of northern Cebu, northern Panay, Masbate, Romblon, Mindoro and northern Palawan.
PAGASA said land, air and sea travel are risky over the said areas from Thursday to Saturday.
Floods and landslides are expected along the track of Yolanda.
Storm surges are also expected in the coastal areas of Catanduanes, Albay, Sorsogon, Eastern Visayas, Dinagat Island and Siargao Island as early as Thursday evening and over the seaboards of Visayas and southern Luzon area by Friday and Saturday morning, respectively.
Occasional rains and gusty winds over the provinces of Catanduanes, Albay and Sorsogon and over Eastern Visayas and northeastern Mindanao beginning Thursday afternoon.
Stormy weather is also expected in the said areas and over the rest of Visayas and the provinces of Masbate, Romblon, Mindoro and northern Palawan on Thursday evening until Saturday morning.
Though international agencies have already classified Yolanda as a super typhoon, PAGASA maintained that it will not yet categorized the tropical cyclone as such.
Read: 'Yolanda' now a super typhoon; may be stronger than 'Pablo' that killed 1000






 



Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 








Click here to join the discussion



Follow Us: 










Follow @PhilstarNews



















 





 


More Nation



  
 Issue TRO vs LRT fare hike, SC urged  

 LTFRB now accepts e-jeepney franchise applications 

 4 cops nabbed in Cavite drug raid   

 YEARENDER: DAR sets up ‘boundaries’ under CARP   

 Sayyaf hitman nabbed in Basilan    

 North Cotabato execs, kin confident of MJ Lastimosa’s Miss Universe win   

 Boy, 7, kidnapped by Abu Sayyaf in Sulu   

 US drone unarmed – AFP   

 Cudia asks SC anew to act on petition vs PMA dismissal   

 11 hurt in Pangasinan road mishaps   
 
 


Sections


Home

Headlines

Opinion

Nation

World

Business

Sports

Entertainment

Lifestyle

Other Sections
 


Feedback

View the discussion thread. 






 








LATEST NEWS
TRENDING



14 more Ampatuan clan members charged in massacreJanuary 8, 2015 - 11:29am
Issue TRO vs LRT fare hike, SC urged January 8, 2015 - 11:07am
Binay camp demands apology from TrillanesJanuary 8, 2015 - 10:57am
Philippines condemns Paris terror attackJanuary 8, 2015 - 10:53am
PHOTOS: Mardi Gras countdown starts amid huge, bright parade floats January 8, 2015 - 10:35am

View more » 









 



Nation ( Button Ad ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 



Nation ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 



Nation ( Skyscraper 1 ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 


Social Spotlight



 


 

 




Nation Skinning Right, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1




 


 

 
 







About UsContact UsAdvertise With UsSubscribe to Newspaper

Site MapPrivacy PolicyMember AgreementCopyright Notice

		6TH Floor, RFM Corporate Center Pioneer St., Mandaluyong City Philippines
		Tel. No. (632) 637-5400
		For advertising concerns: email advertising@philstar.com
		For marketing concerns: email marketing@philstar.com

 


 
 







the philippine star

			|

pilipino star ngayon

			|

the freeman

			|

pang-masa

			|

banat

			|

people asia


	Copyright © 2012. Philstar. All Right Reserved
 


 
 










