'Yolanda' now a super typhoon; may be stronger than 'Pablo' that killed 1000 | Nation, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com
'Yolanda' now a super typhoon; may be stronger than 'Pablo' that killed 1000 | Nation, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com


Skip to main content





Main menuThe Philippine Star
Pilipino Star Ngayon
The Freeman
Pang-Masa
Banat
 
 







philstar.com



            Philippine News for the Filipino Global Community           
 





Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 







Thu | 01/08/2015 11:37am | Forex: $1:45.045 




Search form

Search 





 






Follow Us: 










Follow @PhilstarNews



















 


 


Secondary menuHome
Headlines
Opinion
Nation
World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Other Sections
 
 

Secondary sub-menuTop Stories
Congress
Metro Manila
Luzon
Visayas
Mindanao
Bill Tracker
  
 






Nation Skinning Left, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1




 


 















 



Nation ( Leaderboard Top ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 


 




                'Yolanda' now a super typhoon; may be stronger than 'Pablo' that killed 1000              




 By Louis Bacani (philstar.com)  | Updated November 6, 2013 - 12:57pm














MTSAT ENHANCED-IR Satellite Image of Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) as of 10:57 a.m. pagasa.dost.gov.ph




MANILA, Philippines - Approaching tropical cyclone "Yolanda" (international name: Haiyan) is now a super typhoon and could be even stronger than Typhoon "Pablo" that pounded Mindanao last year and killed more than a thousand people, local and international weather agencies said.
According to the latest data of the Hawaii-based US Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC), Yolanda has been classified as a super typhoon with present maximum sustained winds of 130 knots or 241 kilometers per hour (kph).
The Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) does not have a “super typhoon" category, which is used by the JTWC to classify typhoons with maximum sustained winds of 215 kph.
PAGASA's latest advisory issued at 10:30 a.m. said the eye of the typhoon was last located at 1,411 kilometers east of Mindanao with maximum sustained winds of 150 kph and gusts of up to 185 kph.
The typhoon is forecast to move west northwest at 30 kph and is expected to enter the Philippine Area of Responsibility on Thursday early morning.
Yolanda is expected to make landfall over the Samar-Leyte province by Friday and exit the country by Sunday early morning.

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 

In an interview on ANC, PAGASA weather forecaster Connie Davidas said Yolanda already has a 600-kilometer diameter and could affect the entire Visayas.
"Masyadong malawak po ito... and within this diameter, pwedeng maapektuhan ang buong Kabisayaan at partly, sa Northern Mindanao," Davidas said.
She noted that Yolanda can still intensify since it is still over the Pacific Ocean and that it could be even stronger than last year's Typhoon Pablo.
"Mas malakas po ang inaasahan natin dito sa Bagyong Yolanda dahil sa ngayon po, 150 kph na po ang maximum winds nito at posible pa pong umabot ito ng 200 kilometers per hour," she said.
Senior meteorologist Kristina Pydynowski said in an article on US-based weather website accuweather.com that Yolanda "remains a serious threat" to the Philippines as its strength will be equal to that of a Category 4 hurricane in the Atlantic.
The approaching typhoon is also seen to hit the areas that were devastated by the deadly Central Visayas earthquake last month.
"The expected track of Haiyan will take it directly over the areas hardest hit by a powerful 7.1 magnitude earthquake that killed more than 150 people in the middle of October," the online article said.
Pablo's devastation in Mindanao
In December 2012, Typhoon Pablo (international name: Bopha) entered the Philippine Area of Responsibility ravaged several areas in Mindanao.
After making landfall over Baganga, Davao Oriental, Pablo traversed Compostella Valley, Bukidnon and Negros Oriental while triggering floods and landslides.
The typhoon affected over 6.2 million people in 34 provinces and killed at least 1,067 and injured 2,666 others, according to the latest data of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council.
The cost of damage to properties, infrastructure and agriculture incurred from Pablo was estimated at P36.94 billion.
Related stories: Brace for super typhoon Yolanda – Pagasa | Potential strong typhoon may hit central Phl - US weather agency






 



Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 








Click here to join the discussion



Follow Us: 










Follow @PhilstarNews



















 





 


More Nation



  
 Issue TRO vs LRT fare hike, SC urged  

 LTFRB now accepts e-jeepney franchise applications 

 Soldier killed in Samar shootout   

 4 cops nabbed in Cavite drug raid   

 YEARENDER: DAR sets up ‘boundaries’ under CARP   

 Sayyaf hitman nabbed in Basilan    

 North Cotabato execs, kin confident of MJ Lastimosa’s Miss Universe win   

 Boy, 7, kidnapped by Abu Sayyaf in Sulu   

 US drone unarmed – AFP   

 Cudia asks SC anew to act on petition vs PMA dismissal   
 
 


Sections


Home

Headlines

Opinion

Nation

World

Business

Sports

Entertainment

Lifestyle

Other Sections
 


Feedback

View the discussion thread. 






 








LATEST NEWS
TRENDING



14 more Ampatuan clan members charged in massacreJanuary 8, 2015 - 11:29am
Issue TRO vs LRT fare hike, SC urged January 8, 2015 - 11:07am
Binay camp demands apology from TrillanesJanuary 8, 2015 - 10:57am
Philippines condemns Paris terror attackJanuary 8, 2015 - 10:53am
PHOTOS: Mardi Gras countdown starts amid huge, bright parade floats January 8, 2015 - 10:35am

View more » 









 



Nation ( Button Ad ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 



Nation ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 



Nation ( Skyscraper 1 ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 


Social Spotlight



 


 

 




Nation Skinning Right, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1




 


 

 
 







About UsContact UsAdvertise With UsSubscribe to Newspaper

Site MapPrivacy PolicyMember AgreementCopyright Notice

		6TH Floor, RFM Corporate Center Pioneer St., Mandaluyong City Philippines
		Tel. No. (632) 637-5400
		For advertising concerns: email advertising@philstar.com
		For marketing concerns: email marketing@philstar.com

 


 
 







the philippine star

			|

pilipino star ngayon

			|

the freeman

			|

pang-masa

			|

banat

			|

people asia


	Copyright © 2012. Philstar. All Right Reserved
 


 
 










