Potential strong typhoon may hit central Phl - US weather agency | Nation, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com
Potential strong typhoon may hit central Phl - US weather agency | Nation, News, The Philippine Star | philstar.com


Skip to main content





Main menuThe Philippine Star
Pilipino Star Ngayon
The Freeman
Pang-Masa
Banat
 
 







philstar.com



            Philippine News for the Filipino Global Community           
 





Masthead, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 







Thu | 01/08/2015 11:37am | Forex: $1:45.045 




Search form

Search 





 






Follow Us: 










Follow @PhilstarNews



















 


 


Secondary menuHome
Headlines
Opinion
Nation
World
Business
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Other Sections
 
 

Secondary sub-menuTop Stories
Congress
Metro Manila
Luzon
Visayas
Mindanao
Bill Tracker
  
 






Nation Skinning Left, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1




 


 















 



Nation ( Leaderboard Top ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 


 




                Potential strong typhoon may hit central Phl - US weather agency              




 By Louis Bacani (philstar.com)  | Updated November 5, 2013 - 10:28am














The US Joint Typhoon Warning Center's track of Tropical Storm "Haiyan" www.usno.navy.mil




MANILA, Philippines - (UPDATED) A new tropical cyclone that is seen to intensify into a powerful typhoon may hit the Philippines as it continues to move west northwestward, the US Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) said.
The JTWC said the weather disturbance "Haiyan" (international name) is already a typhoon that is expected to continue tracking through the Philippine Sea.
Typhoon Haiyan may also make landfall over the central Philippines and track across the archipelago, according to JTWC's forecast.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), citing a JTWC forecast, also said that Haiyan may hit Philippine land later this week.
"The Joint Typhoon Warning Center has forecast newborn Tropical Storm Haiyan to strengthen to a powerful typhoon before making landfall in the Philippines on Nov 8," NASA said on its website.
The agency said Haiyan is also seen to strengthen into a tropical cyclone equal to a Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Scale.  

Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 

In an advisory issued at 11 a.m., the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) said "Haiyan" was located at 2,170 km east of Mindanao with maximum sustained winds of 95 kilometers per hour and gusts of up to 120 kilometers per hour.
PAGASA said the typhoon is expected to move west at 25 kilomters per hour and to enter the Philippine Area of Responsibility on Thursday morning.
Haiyan will be locally named "Yolanda" when it enters the country's borders.
"It will not affect any part of the country within the next 36 hours," PAGASA said.
In a report by the state-run Philippine News Agency, PAGASA weather forecaster Connie Dadivas said Haiyan will likely make landfall in the Bicol region also on Thursday.
Meanwhile, PAGASA said in its latest bulletin that the low pressure area that was previously Tropical Depression "Wilma" was last observed at 190 kilometers northeast of Puerto Princesa City, Palawan.
It is embedded along the intertropical convergence zone.
PAGASA said Mimaropa will experience cloudy skies with moderate to occasionally heavy rains and thunderstorms that may trigger flashfloods and landslides.
Western Visayas and Bicol region will have cloudy skies with light to moderate rains and thunderstorms.
Metro Manila and the rest of the country will be partly cloudy to cloudy with isolated rains and thunderstorms.






 



Nation ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 








Click here to join the discussion



Follow Us: 










Follow @PhilstarNews



















 





 


More Nation



  
 Issue TRO vs LRT fare hike, SC urged  

 LTFRB now accepts e-jeepney franchise applications 

 YEARENDER 2014 disasters: Typhoon belt shifts to Visayas   

 Soldier killed in Samar shootout   

 4 cops nabbed in Cavite drug raid   

 YEARENDER: DAR sets up ‘boundaries’ under CARP   

 Sayyaf hitman nabbed in Basilan    

 North Cotabato execs, kin confident of MJ Lastimosa’s Miss Universe win   

 Boy, 7, kidnapped by Abu Sayyaf in Sulu   

 US drone unarmed – AFP   
 
 


Sections


Home

Headlines

Opinion

Nation

World

Business

Sports

Entertainment

Lifestyle

Other Sections
 


Feedback

View the discussion thread. 






 








LATEST NEWS
TRENDING



14 more Ampatuan clan members charged in massacreJanuary 8, 2015 - 11:29am
Issue TRO vs LRT fare hike, SC urged January 8, 2015 - 11:07am
Binay camp demands apology from TrillanesJanuary 8, 2015 - 10:57am
Philippines condemns Paris terror attackJanuary 8, 2015 - 10:53am
PHOTOS: Mardi Gras countdown starts amid huge, bright parade floats January 8, 2015 - 10:35am

View more » 









 



Nation ( Button Ad ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 



Nation ( MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 



Nation ( Skyscraper 1 ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1



 


Social Spotlight



 


 

 




Nation Skinning Right, pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1




 


 

 
 







About UsContact UsAdvertise With UsSubscribe to Newspaper

Site MapPrivacy PolicyMember AgreementCopyright Notice

		6TH Floor, RFM Corporate Center Pioneer St., Mandaluyong City Philippines
		Tel. No. (632) 637-5400
		For advertising concerns: email advertising@philstar.com
		For marketing concerns: email marketing@philstar.com

 


 
 







the philippine star

			|

pilipino star ngayon

			|

the freeman

			|

pang-masa

			|

banat

			|

people asia


	Copyright © 2012. Philstar. All Right Reserved
 


 
 










