A Powerful Typhoon Speeds Across the Philippines - NYTimes.com
A Powerful Typhoon Speeds Across the Philippines - NYTimes.com












campaign: abTest_bar1_hover_menu_register_1114 -- 263520, creative: ABX-2110_abTest_bar1_hover_menu_register_1114 -- 390283, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia/powerful-typhoon-causes-mass-disruption-in-philippines.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia, position: Bar1












Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Asia Pacific





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos














A Powerful Typhoon Speeds Across the Philippines 


By Reuters
Zander Casas/Reuters
Typhoon Haiyan Batters the Philippines: 
Scenes from the Philippines, where a major storm ripped across the islands, leaving a trail of devastation and a rising death toll.

 

By 
FLOYD WHALEY

Published: November 8, 2013    













MANILA — A powerful typhoon ripped through the Philippines on Friday, killing more than 100 people in a city on Leyte Island, a Civil Aviation Authority official said on Saturday.        




Related



Prayers in Little Manila as a Typhoon Hits Home
(November 9, 2013)






Connect With Us on Twitter
Follow @nytimesworld for international breaking news and headlines.
Twitter List: Reporters and Editors



Enlarge This Image










Jay Rommel Labra/European Pressphoto Agency
In Cebu Province a gymnasium housed evacuees from Typhoon Haiyan.                            



Enlarge This Image










Charism Sayat/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
High waves amid strong winds pounded the coast on Friday as a typhoon hit the city of Legazpi. At least four died, officials said.                            



Enlarge This Image










Charlie Saceda/Reuters
Strong winds from the typhoon hit a coastal town in Laguna Province. More than 700,000 evacuated ahead of the storm.                            




Victims’ bodies lay in the streets of the city, Tacloban, one of the hardest hit by the storm, Capt. John Andrews, the authority’s deputy director general, told The Associated Press. Although the storm had knocked out power and most communications, Captain Andrews said, his staff relayed news of the deaths. “The information is reliable,” he told the news service.        
By some accounts the typhoon, named Haiyan, ranked among the world’s strongest. But because it moved across the country so rapidly, it may not have killed as many people as feared. Experts say that is because it did not linger long enough to deluge the islands with rain that can cause the widespread flooding and mudslides that often lead to very high death tolls. Tacloban, however, was deluged.        
The storm, called Yolanda in the Philippines, moved across the country around 25 miles per hour, roughly twice as fast as Typhoon Bopha, which killed more than a thousand people last year, experts said.        
“Fortunately, this moved like a Porsche,” said Michael Padua, a senior typhoon specialist at a private forecasting group, Weather Philippines.        
Still, as rescuers make their way to isolated areas and communications are restored, the death toll could rise significantly. Damage was expected to be extensive, in part because many structures in poorer regions are not well built.        
The typhoon slammed into the island of Samar, on the eastern edge of the Philippines, early Friday morning and sped across the islands in the center of the country. Photos showed crumpled wooden buildings, high waves slamming into the shore and, in some cases, people emerging from their houses to find coconuts strewn all over the streets.        
There were grave concerns before the storm hit because the estimated wind speeds over the ocean indicated that it could have a devastating impact on land.        
The alarm may have been advantageous. More than 700,000 people evacuated their homes, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. Many were housed in evacuation centers, which could limit the death toll.        
“People were prepared for this one,” said Rene Paciente, a forecaster with the Philippine government’s national weather agency. “They were given notice, and they were evacuated.”        
In a nationally televised address, President Benigno S. Aquino III had told Filipinos to prepare for the worst. “Let us evacuate our homes if we are in danger zones,” he said.        
Local radio and television stations reported downed power lines, impassible roads and flooding in some areas caused by surging ocean water.        
Before the typhoon made landfall, some international forecasters were estimating wind speeds at 195 m.p.h., which would have meant the storm would hit with winds among the strongest recorded. But local forecasters later disputed those estimates. “Some of the reports of wind speeds were exaggerated,” Mr. Paciente said.        
The Philippine weather agency measured winds on the eastern edge of the country at about 150 m.p.h., he said, with some tracking stations recording speeds as low as 100 m.p.h.        
The United States Navy’s Joint Typhoon Warning Center used satellite analysis to estimate sustained winds at 195 m.p.h., with gusts up to 235 m.p.h., but that measured the center of the storm when it was over the ocean.        
“As far as satellite imagery was concerned, it indicated that this was one of the strongest storms on record,” said Roger Edson, the science and operations officer at the United States National Weather Service in Guam.        
He said 195 m.p.h. winds would put the storm “off the charts,” but he acknowledged that satellite estimates require further study on the ground to determine if they were accurate.        
By Saturday, the storm had left the Philippines, on a path to Vietnam, according to the Joint Typhoon Warning Center in Honolulu.        



 











A version of this article appears in print on November 9, 2013, on page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: A Powerful Typhoon Speeds Across the Philippines.




 

















Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics












Typhoon Haiyan (2013)






Philippines








Aquino, Benigno S III






Hurricanes and Tropical Storms








 











 

 







 

 

 



 

 




 



 






 













 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health &raquo 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2013 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback
















