Death Toll From Typhoon Exceeds 450 in Philippines - NYTimes.com
Death Toll From Typhoon Exceeds 450 in Philippines - NYTimes.com












campaign: abTest_bar1_hover_menu_register_1114 -- 263520, creative: ABX-2110_abTest_bar1_hover_menu_register_1114 -- 390283, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia/death-toll-from-typhoon-exceeds-450-in-philippines.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/asia, position: Bar1












Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Asia Pacific





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos














Death Toll From Typhoon Exceeds 450 in Philippines 




Bullit Marquez/Associated Press
Rescuers retrieve more bodies strewn across a farming valley in the southern Philippines by a powerful typhoon. 

 

By 
FLOYD WHALEY

Published: December 7, 2012    













MANILA — The death toll from the typhoon that tore through the southern Philippines this week rose past 450 on Friday with over 500 still missing, and there were assertions that climate change, deforestation, poor planning and other factors had worsened the catastrophe.        





Connect With Us on Twitter
Follow @nytimesworld for international breaking news and headlines.
Twitter List: Reporters and Editors




The government’s main disaster agency said Friday afternoon that 456 people were known to have been killed by Typhoon Bopha, with 533 people missing and 445 injured. Local officials estimated that the final death toll would exceeded 500. About 393,000 people were said to be living temporarily in evacuation centers or receiving some other form of government assistance.        
Government officials said this week that storm patterns related to climate change had put communities unaccustomed to strong typhoons in Bopha’s path. But they also said the destruction had been exacerbated by deforestation from illegal logging and small-scale mining, as well as poor planning and confusion created by maps supposed of vulnerable areas.        
“I requested samples of the geohazard maps and even I couldn’t read them,” Senator Loren Legarda, an outspoken proponent of disaster preparedness programs, said Friday in an interview. “The maps need to be updated and clear, but they are difficult to understand.”        
Last December, more than 1,200 people in the Philippines were killed by Typhoon Washi, a powerful out-of-season storm that took an unusual southern track and surprised local officials, exposing thousands to flash floods. Government officials at the time vowed to crack down on risk factors — such as illegal settlements in flood-prone areas — to avoid a repeat of the disaster.        
A year later, Typhoon Bopha took a similar southern track and sent landslides and flash floods barreling through small, vulnerable communities where thousands of people remained at the height of the storm. The government, including President Benigno Aquino III, had issued repeated strong warnings urging residents to prepare, but some apparently had few options.        
Officials in the town of New Bataan, in the hardest-hit area, reported that some evacuation centers that were supposed to provide refuge had themselves flooded during the storm.        
Environment Secretary Ramon Paje told reporters this week that about 80 percent of the illegal logging “hot spots” in the Philippines are in Compostela Valley, the province that sustained the worst flooding. The denuding of mountains was being seen as a key factor in the landslides and flooding.        
“In these illegally logged areas, what do you expect but landslides?” Sen. Legarda said.        
Ten of the 11 towns in Compostela Valley are gold mining towns, said Melvin Lamanilao, who heads a program that seeks to bring greater transparency to the mining industry in the province. He estimated that 22,000 individual miners have descended on the province’s fragile mountainsides in recent years, digging hundreds of makeshift tunnels, building small gold processing plants and cutting down trees.        
“When gold is discovered, these small-scale miners rush into the area,” he said. “They just go to the site, explore and dig. They need a lot of timber to stabilize their tunnels. In a gold rush area with no strong government regulation, they can just cut down the trees.”        
President Aquino has discouraged national government officials from assigning blame for the disaster’s death toll, saying the focus at this point should be on rescue efforts and rehabilitating communities. The president on Friday visited several areas that were struck by the typhoon and helped distribute relief goods.        



 











A version of this article appeared in print on December 8, 2012, on page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: The Philippines: Storm’s Toll Rises.




 

















Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics












Typhoon Bopha (2012)






Philippines








Deaths (Fatalities)






Global Warming








 











 

 





 

 

 



 

 




 



 






 













 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health &raquo 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2013 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback
















