Super Typhoon Usagi: Thousands Without Power 
Super Typhoon Usagi: Thousands Without Power



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Super Typhoon Usagi: Thousands Without Power

The most powerful tropical storm of the year claims at least two lives in the Philippines as it heads for Hong Kong.


05:32, UK, 
Sunday 22
September 2013











The powerful typhoon left two people dead in the Philippines










Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






Typhoon Usagi has unleashed torrential rain and ferocious winds in Taiwan, leaving tens of thousands without power after the storm claimed at least two lives in the Philippines.

Southern Taiwan has been hit hard by the storm, which has reached maximum sustained winds of up to 120mph, according to the Hong Kong Observatory.
As the storm headed for Hong Kong, residents in the city have reinforced windows in anticipation of impact.
Local airline Cathay Pacific has warned that all its flights in and out of the city will be cancelled.




A man uses a makeshift raft to paddle through waves in Manila Bay

In Taiwan's southern Pintung county, storms have flooded remote villages and forced troops to rescue dozens of people, the state Central News Agency said.
"I thought a tsunami was hitting ... I've never encountered this before in my life," said a 60-year-old woman who scrambled to safety as the storm hit.
Six people were injured in Kinmen, a Taiwan-controlled island off China's southeastern Fujian province, after they were hit by fallen trees.
The typhoon also left 45,000 homes without power and more than 5,000 households without water.




The storm lashed Taiwan's southern areas

A total of 77 domestic and five international flights have been cancelled and ferry services suspended, with schools and offices in many parts of Taiwan closed, especially in the south and east.
The defence ministry deployed more than 3,000 soldiers to "high-risk" areas and placed 24,000 others on standby.
The Philippines' National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council has confirmed that a man aged about 50 and a woman of about 20 drowned in the storm.




Winds of up to 120mph have been recorded as Usagi struck Taiwan

Two women are also missing after a boat capsized the previous day. Nine passengers and crew were rescued.
In Hong Kong, officials have issued a standby signal number three, the second in a five-step tropical cyclone warning system with winds expected to strengthen.
China's National Meteorological Center issued a red alert - its highest-level warning - as it forecast gale-force winds and heavy rain.
It said Usagi would affect the coastal areas of the provinces of Guangdong, Zhejiang and Fujian.
  Related Stories  Super Typhoon Usagi: Winds Could Reach 180mph 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Breaking News: Paris Gun Attack Suspect Surrenders, Reports









Global Vigils To Mourn Paris Terror Attack Dead









Breaking News: Called For By Name: Cartoonists Identified









Breaking News: Officer Shot In Head As He Pleads For Life









Thursday's National Newspaper Front Pages












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









