Super Typhoon Usagi: Winds Could Reach 180mph 
Super Typhoon Usagi: Winds Could Reach 180mph



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Super Typhoon Usagi: Winds Could Reach 180mph

The most powerful tropical storm of the year could cause "very heavy" damage as it moves towards Hong Kong and China.


09:08, UK, 
Saturday 21
September 2013











Usagi is packing winds of 180mph as it moves towards southeast Asia










Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






Communities in southeast Asia have been warned a super typhoon bearing down on the region could potentially be "very destructive".

Usagi, the most powerful cyclone of 2013 so far, could unleash gusts of 180mph, as well as torrential rain and tidal surges, on the Philippines and Taiwan.




A boy clings to rocks in Manila Bay in rough seas brought by Usagi

Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes and ferry services cancelled, while the Red Cross has begun stockpiling first aid kits and food packs.
In Taiwan, more than 1,600 soldiers have been deployed to areas most at risk of flooding and a further 24,000 remain on standby.




Dark clouds loom over Navotas City in the Philippines as Usagi passes by

A spokesman for the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration warned damage could be "very heavy".
"The situation is potentially very destructive to communities," he said. "All travel and outdoor activities should be cancelled."




A man uses a makeshift raft to paddle through waves in Manila Bay

Usagi, which is more than 1,000km (620 miles) in diameter, was upgraded to a super typhoon as it roared towards the Luzon Strait dividing the Philippines and Taiwan.
The cyclone's northeast quadrant, which usually packs the strongest winds, is expected to clip Taiwan's southern tip as it moves westwards.




Super typhoon Usagi is moving westwards towards the Vietnamese coast

In China, 23,000 fishing boats have already taken shelter in Fujian province, after the country's meteorological authority upgraded its typhoon warning to orange, the second highest level.
The storm is expected to weaken as it moves towards Hong Kong, although officials  warned the weather would "deteriorate significantly, with strengthening winds and rough seas".
  Related Stories  Japan Typhoon: Deaths And Evacuations  Philippines Typhoon: UN Launches Aid Appeal 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Hospital Consultant On Trial For Sex Offences









A&E Waiting Times Are Worst For 10 Years









Oldham To Continue Talks Over Ched Evans









D-Day 'Great Escaper' War Veteran Dies









'Very Happy' Stephen Fry Is Getting Married












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









