Typhoon Bopha: 40 Dead In Philippines 
Typhoon Bopha: 40 Dead In Philippines



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Typhoon Bopha: 40 Dead In Philippines

An army truck carrying soldiers and villagers is washed away and a village hall swamped as Bopha devastates the country.


15:41, UK, 
Tuesday 04
December 2012








1/22










Gallery: Destruction As Typhoon Hits Philippines
A spot where houses and a village road once stood is now filled with boulders washed by flash floods at the height of Typhoon Bopha in New Bataan town, Compostela Valley province.





















































































Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






More than 40 people have been killed in a powerful typhoon in the Philippines, including soldiers and villagers who were in an army truck that was washed away.

Typhoon Bopha, packing winds of up to 130mph, hit land on Mindanao island's east coast at dawn on Tuesday.
At least 33 of the victims drowned in the town of New Bataan when torrents of water dumped by the typhoon rampaged down a mountain. 
Governor Arturo Uy said the victims included villagers who had fled from their homes to a village hall, which was swamped by the flash flood, and those on board the army truck that was swept away.




The typhoon made landfall on Mindanao island

The dead included three children who were buried by the wall of mud and boulders that plunged into the village of Marapat.
Their bodies were wrapped in blankets by their grieving relatives and placed on a stage in a basketball court.








Play video "Typhoon Pounds The Philippines"










Video:
Typhoon Pounds The Philippines


"The only thing we could do was to save ourselves. It was too late for us to rescue them," Valentin Pabilana, who survived the landslide, said.
The death toll could rise further because several other bodies could not immediately be retrieved from floodwaters strewn with huge logs and debris, governor Uy said.
Army troops and police were not able to reach the town because access roads were blocked by landslides and fallen trees, he said.
Eight people have died elsewhere on Mindanao island in the country's south.
About 60,000 people fled their homes to escape what was the strongest storm to hit the country this year.
Two entire provinces lost power and more than 100 domestic flights were cancelled.
Residents evacuated high-risk coastal villages and along rivers, including in southern provinces that were devastated by a deadly storm a year ago.
Typhoon Bopha, which has a 370-mile wide rain band, was expected to barrel across southern and central provinces before blowing out into the South China Sea on Thursday, forecasters said.
:: The Philippines is battered by about 20 typhoons a year, with 1,500 deaths recorded last year from storms.
  Related Stories:  Philippines Flooding Leaves 16 Dead In Manila  Mass Burials For Victims Of Philippines Storm 





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Hospital Consultant On Trial For Sex Offences









A&E Waiting Times Are Worst For 10 Years









Oldham To Continue Talks Over Ched Evans









D-Day 'Great Escaper' War Veteran Dies









'Very Happy' Stephen Fry Is Getting Married












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









