
The Philippines braces for another super storm | Bangkok Post: learning


The Philippines braces for another super storm | Bangkok Post: learning










  The Philippines braces for another super storm | Bangkok Post: learning








Home
Help
Lite Version
Log in
Sign up
Member benefit




E - Paper
SMS
Print Front Page
Newswire
Print subscription
RSS
















Advanced search





NEWS


BUSINESS


OPINION


LEARNING


TECH


LIFESTYLE


TRAVEL


AUTO


PROPERTY


MULTIMEDIA


THAILAND GUIDE


CLASSIFIEDS


JOBS

MORE 

Archive
Search
Reader forum
Hotel booking
Member setting




























										Learning from news
											



										Easy news
											



										Really easy news
											



										Words
											



										At work
											



										Learning together
											



										English test
											



										Language courses
											



										International school
											



										News & PR
											















        Learning
         >
				Learning From News (เรียนภาษาอังกฤษจาก ข่าวบางกอกโพสต์)
		      

Typhoon Hagupit 

Hagupit now a tropical depression  (Updated Tuesday)

Published:  8 Dec 2014 at 08.34 |
							Viewed: 3,830 |
							Comments:  0
Online news: Learning From News
Writer: Terry Fredrickson




Level switch:

Advanced





-
+

Hagupit has weakened further and is now classified as a tropical depression at it leaves the Philippines. The death toll has risen to 27, but that has to be considered a victory for authorities after thousands were killed last year by Super Typhoon Haiyan. 
Please join us on our Facebook page http://www.facebook.com/bangkokpostlearning

Meteorologists from the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) monitor and plot the direction of super typhoon Hagupit at PAGASA in suburban Manila on December 4, 2014. AFP PHOTO / Jay DIRECTO

Tuesday morning update
Hagupit is has been downgraded further to a tropical depression with sustained winds of only about 60kph. Manila and the surrounding areas have been hit by rain, but initial reports indicate the rainfall has been less than expected.
Monday evening update
Hagupit is clearly weakening as it nears Manila but heavy rain is still expected and officials and residents are on high alert.                                                                                                                                                          Meanwhile, in areas already hit by the storm, the death toll has risen dramatically. Here is the story from AFP:

A resident stands in front of houses destroyed at the height of typhoon Hagupit in Borongan City, eastern Samar province central Philippines on December 8, 2014. AFP PHOTO/VINCENT GO

Hagupit has claimed at least 23 lives so far, with 18 of those deaths on Samar, Philippine Red Cross secretary-general Gwendolyn Pang told AFP.                                                                                                                                                          Sixteen people drowned during flooding in Borongan, a city on Samar of about 60,000 facing the Pacific Ocean that was almost in Hagupit's direct path, according to Pang.

Children play on top of a fallen coconut tree blocking a highway in San Julian town, Eastern Samar province central Philippines on December 8, 2014 in the aftermath of typhoon Hagupit. AFP PHOTO/VINCENT GO

Footage aired by local television network GMA showed children standing beside landslide-choked roads in Borongan on Monday carrying signs reading: "Help us, help us".                                                                                                                                                          The death toll was widely expected to climb, with damage assessments from some badly hit areas yet to come in, and the storm not expected to fully cross the archipelago of 7,100 islands until Tuesday.
Monday morning update
Hagupit to hit Manila area later today

Evacuees are seen at the Government Elementary School which has been turned into an evacuation center in Manila on December 8, 2014. AFP PHOTO / Jay DIRECTO

Manila is next for Typhoon Hagupit which is expected to begin to feel the storm's wrath later today. The heaviest rain and winds are expected around sunset. Flooding is a major concern.                                                                                                                                                          Meanwhile, government authorities report casualties still appear to be light – less than 10 known deaths so far – and damage seems "manageable", but many areas in the storm zone are still not accessible. The picture should become clearly later today.                                                                                                                                                          The storm continues to move slowly to the northwest and won't completely clear the Philippines until Wednesday or Thursday.
Here's the latest from AFP
Millions hunker down in Philippine capital ahead of storm
Millions of people in the Philippine capital hunkered down Monday as a major storm churned towards the megacity, after killing at least two people and destroying thousands of homes on remote islands.                                                                                                                                                          However Hagupit weakened from a typhoon as it moved slowly across the central Philippines, fuelling cautious optimism the disaster-weary Southeast Asian nation may avoid another calamity involving hundreds of deaths.                                                                                                                                                          In Metro Manila, a sprawling coastal megalopolis of 12 million people that regularly endures deadly flooding, well-drilled evacuation efforts went into full swing as forecasters warned of heavy rain from dusk.                                                                                                                                                          "We are on 24-hour alert for floods and storm surges... it's the flooding that we are worried about," Joseph Estrada, mayor of Manila, the original city of two million within Metro Manila, told AFP.                                                                                                                                                          Thousands of people, mostly the city's poorest residents who live in shanty homes along the coast and riverbanks, crammed into schools and other government evacuation centres across the megacity on Monday.                                                                                                                                                          Schools were also suspended, the stock market was closed, many office and government workers were told to stay at home, and dozens of commercial flights were cancelled.
Sunday evening update

A man walks under a fallen electric post in Tacloban, central Philippines on December 7, 2014 where damage from Typhoon Hagupit has been much less severe than that of Haiyan last year. AFP PHOTO/MARLON TANO

The BBC has just reported from Tacloban and storm-affected areas further north that casualties from Typhoon Hagupit have thus far been very light and the damage far less than was the case last year during Haiyan. But that doesn't mean the residents have escaped unscathed. Here is the latest from AFP:
A year after losing all their belongings to one of the world's strongest storms, thousands of weary people in the Philippines emerged from evacuation shelters on Sunday to find their homes again in ruins.                                                                                                                                                          Typhoon Hagupit hit the central Philippines late on Saturday with gusts of 210 kilometres (130 miles) an hour, destroying flimsy houses, tearing roofs off others, knocking down power poles and smashing bridges.                                                                                                                                                          Hagupit, which was due to take three days to cut across the Philippines, did not generate the massive storm surges that claimed so many lives last year in the central Philippines.
Mass evacuations before it arrived also helped to ensure there was no repeat of the mass casualties in the areas devastated by Haiyan.                                                                                                                                                          "There is a collective sigh of relief," Jerry Yaokasin, vice mayor of Tacloban, a city of 220,000 people that was one of the worst-hit last year, told AFP                                                                                                                                                          "The initial assessment is that there are no casualties. We were better prepared... up to 50,000 people were packed in evacuation centres."                                                                                                                                                          But many people – who have since Haiyan lived in tents, temporary shelters and shanty homes – again faced the trauma of losing their homes.
"The temporary houses destroyed by the typhoon is our big problem right now... our biggest challenge is how to provide for those who were displaced because of that," Yaokasin said.
Sunday morning updates

The latest storm track as of 10:22am from the weatherunderground website. Notice that the storm will make several landfalls as it moves from island to island. (Weatherunderground.com)

CNN reports this morning the Hagupit is on land and moving very slowly – only at a rate of about 14 kph per hour ("You could outrun it," a CNN meteorologist said.)                                                                                                                                                          Unfortunately, this means extremely heavy and prolonged rain over at least the next three days. which the strong possibility of severe flooding.
(10:15) Andrew Stevens of CNN, reporting from Tacloban, confirms that the city devastated by Haiyan last year has escaped a major catastrophe this time. People were evacuated in a timely manner and, thankfully, there was no storm surge this time.
Farther north, however, the CNN meteorologist says the slow-moving storm has already dumped nearly 400mm of rain in some areas in only 24 hours. As the storm moves on, winds on the back side of the storm are expected to blow onshore and waves up to four meters high are possible.                                                                                                                                                          Here is an early morning report from AFP on what we know so far:
Typhoon tears down homes in disaster-weary Philippines
LEGASPI, Philippines, AFP – Typhoon Hagupit tore apart homes and sent waves crashing through coastal communities across the eastern Philippines on Sunday, creating more misery for millions following a barrage of deadly disasters.                                                                                                                                                          The typhoon roared in from the Pacific Ocean and crashed into remote fishing communities of Samar island on Saturday night with wind gusts of 210 kilometres (130 miles) an hour, local weather agency Pagasa said.                                                                                                                                                          The wind strength made Hagupit the most powerful storm to hit the Philippines this year, exceeding a typhoon in July that killed more than 100 people.

High waves brought about by strong winds pound a fishport building in the city of Legazpi, hours before Typhoon Hagupit hit the area. Heavy rain and winds are still reported there.  AFP PHOTO/TED ALJIBE

"Tin roofs are flying off, trees are falling and there is some flooding," Stephany Uy-Tan, the mayor of Catbalogan, a major city on Samar, told AFP by phone minutes after Hagupit made landfall.                                                                                                                                                          Fearful of a repeat of last year when Super Typhoon Haiyan claimed more than 7,350 lives, the government undertook a massive evacuation effort ahead of Hagupit that saw millions of people seek shelter.                                                                                                                                                          Hagupit was forecast to take three days to cut across the Philippines, passing over mostly poor central regions, while also bringing heavy rain to the densely populated capital of Manila slightly to the north.                                                                                                                                                          As day broke on Sunday, many areas across the eastern Philippines were uncontactable and it was impossible to know how badly they were damaged, Red Cross secretary general Gwendolyn Pang told AFP.                                                                                                                                                          In those that were reachable, residents and officials reported terrifying winds and waves that destroyed homes, although with most people in evacuation centres there were hopes casualties would be few.                                                                                                                                                          In Tacloban, one of the cities worst-hit by Haiyan, palm-thatch temporary houses built by aid agencies for survivors of last year's typhoon had been torn aport, vice mayor Jerry Yaokasin told AFP.                                                                                                                                                          However there was no repeat of the storm surges that did the most damage during Haiyan, known locally as Yolanda.                                                                                                                                                          "There is a collective sigh of relief. The initial assessment is that there are no casualties. We were better prepared after Yolanda, up to 50,000 people were packed in evacuation centres," he said.
Saturday story and updates
21:50
Hagupit has reportedly made the first of five landfalls tonight. Electricity has been cut in much of the area, so we can't expect a lot of solid news until the morning hours.
18:45

Children ride on a pedicab as it rains in Dolores town, eastern Samar, central Philippines on December 6, 2014 where Typhoon Hagupit is expected to make its first landfall. Heavy rain and strong winds began to hit the eastern Philippines on December 6 ahead of a giant storm threatening more devastation to areas yet to recover from a super typhoon that killed thousands. AFP PHOTO/NONOY LAGARDE

As you might have noticed this evening, there is a full moon tonight and the high tide that brings could made the Hagupit storm surge worse. Meteorologists are predicting waves as high as four metres for the islands directly in the storm's path.                                                                                                                                                          Fortunately, that is to the north of Tacloban City in the central Philippines which bore the brunt of Super Typhoon Haiyan last year. The city is likely to receive in excess of 100mm of rain and very heavy winds, but further north the situation is likely to be much worse.                                                                                                                                                           First to be hit by Hagupit tonight is expected to be the eastern island of Samar where winds of 185 kilometres an hour are expected. Some areas may receive up to 500mm of rain in addition to the heavy winds.
The Philippines braces for another super storm
Thailand's football match in Manila not affected  Thailand is scheduled to play the Philippines in the semi-final first leg of the AFF Suzuki Cup tonight in Manila. At the airport prior to team's departure, team officials expressed concern that they might be playing in a storm as Super Typhoon Hagupit was approaching the country.

The weather was still fine in Manila yesterday as the Thai football squad made their final preparations for tonight's match. TOR CHITTINAND

That won't happen. At 7pm tonight when the match begins, Hagupit (or "Ruby" as it has been named in the Philippines) should just be making its first significant landfall about 800 kilometres away. The Thais would be advised to leave Manila as soon as possible after the match, however, because conditions are likely to deteriorate in a hurry.                                                                                                                                                           Here is the latest report from AFP on the storm:

Residents rest inside an evacuation center in Surigao City, in southern island of Mindanao on December 5, 2014, ahead of the landfall of Typhoon Hagupit. AFP PHOTO

Millions evacuate as typhoon bears down on Philippines
Millions of people in the Philippines sought shelter in churches, schools and other makeshift evacuation centres on Friday as Typhoon Hagupit bore down on the disaster-weary nation.                                                                                                                                                          The storm, which would be the strongest to hit the Southeast Asian archipelago this year, is expected to impact more than half the nation including communities devastated by Super Typhoon Haiyan last year.                                                                                                                                                          Authorities said millions of people were pouring into evacuation centres ahead of Hagupit's expected landfall on Saturday night or Sunday, having learnt the lessons of early preparations after Haiyan.                                                                                                                                                          "Everyone here is gripped with fear," Rita Villadolid, 39, told AFP as she sat with her family and hundreds of other people inside a stadium in Tacloban, one of the cities still yet to recover from Haiyan.

Residents take shelter inside a church in Tacloban City, central Philippines on December 5, 2014. AFP PHOTO/LITO BAGUNAS

Elsewhere in Tacloban, a coastal city of 220,000 people on the eastern island of Leyte, people began flooding into churches and schools with little more than bags of clothes and rice.
Haiyan, the strongest storm ever recorded on land with winds of 315 kilometres an hour, killed or left missing more than 7,350 people as it tore across the central Philippines in November last year.                                                                                                                                                          Hagupit weakened slightly on Friday and was downgraded from a super typhoon category as it tracked towards the Philippines in the Pacific Ocean, generating maximum winds of 195 kilometres an hour.                                                                                                                                                          But Hagupit was still predicted to be the strongest storm to hit the Philippines this year, bringing storm surges more than one storey high to many coastal areas, according to state weather agency Pagasa.                                                                                                                                                          Hagupit's giant front of more than 600 kilometres meant about 50 million people, or half the nation's population, were living in vulnerable areas, Social Welfare Secretary Corazon Soliman told AFP.                                                                                                                                                          She said 100,000 families, or about half a million people, were already in evacuation centres by Friday night, and many more would follow on Saturday.                                                                                                                                                          In the eastern region of Bicol alone, which sits in Hagupit's direct path, the government was aiming to move 2.5 million into evacuation centres, regional civil defence director Bernardo Alejandro told AFP.                                                                                                                                                          Metro Manila, the nation's capital with a population of more than 12 million people, could also suffer a direct hit, according to the US Navy's Joint Typhoon Warning Center.                                                                                                                                                          Authorities in Manila, about 800 kilometres to the west of where Hagupit was expected to initially make landfall, said they were preparing for heavy flooding on Monday.




Learn from listening
Click "play" to listen to Hagupit now a tropical depression  (Updated Tuesday) and "Download"  to keep this file for educational purpose.

Download









Vocabulary:
accessible: that can be reached, entered, used, seen, etc - ที่สามารถเข้าได้
advise: to tell somebody what you think they should do in a particular situation - แนะนำ, แจ้ง
aftermath: the effects and results of something bad or important - ผลที่ตามมา
aid: help; assistance - ความช่วยเหลือ
aim: to have as your target - เล็ง
alert: prepared to deal with something dangerous - ตื่นตัว ระวัง
approach: to move closer to someone or something - เข้าใกล้
archipelago: a group of small islands or an area of sea in which there are many small islands - ทะเลบริเวณที่มีหมู่เกาะ
assessment: a judgment or opinion - การประเมิน
astronomical: connected with astronomy (the scientific study of the sun, moon, stars, planets, etc.) - เกี่ยวกับดาราศาสตร์
atmospheric: related to the earth's atmosphere (the mixture of gases that surrounds the earth) - เกี่ยวกับบรรยากาศ
authority: a person or government agency who has the power to make decisions or enforce the law - เจ้าหน้าที่ผู้มีอำนาจ
barrage: a large number or amount of something, especially something bad like criticism - การระดมโจมตี
bear down on: to move quickly towards something - ลุกลามมายัง
bear the brunt: to receive the main force of something unpleasant - รับผลร้าย  แบกรับ
belongings: the things you own - ข้าวของเครื่องใช้
brace for: to get ready for something unpleasant - เตรียมรับมือ
calamity: a bad event or serious accident causing damage or suffering - เหตุการณ์ที่เลวร้าย
capital: the most important town or city of a country, usually where the central government operates from - เมืองหลวง
casualty: victim; someone/ something that has been harmed, injured or killed as the result of a bad event such as a disaster or crime (casualties: the number of dead or injured) - เหยื่อผู้เคราะห์ร้าย; จำนวนคนตายหรือได้รับบาดเจ็บ
catastrophe: an extremely damaging event - เหตุร้ายกาจม ความหายนะ
category: a group of people or things that have similar qualities - หมวดหมู่ ประเภท
cautious: careful to avoid danger - ระมัดระวังไม่ให้เกิดขึ้น
challenge: something that needs a lot of skill, energy, and determination to deal with or achieve - สิ่งที่ท้าทาย, การท้าทาย
choke: to fill a place so that it is difficult to move - ทำให้แน่นไปด้วย
churn: to move water, mud, etc. around violently - หมุนวนอย่างแรง
civil defence: the organisation and training of ordinary people to protect themselves from attack during a war or from natural disasters such as floods or storms - การป้องกันภัยฝ่ายพลเรือน
claim lives: to kill people - 
coastal: of an area of land beside the sea - แนวชายฝั่งทะเล
collective: involving all the members of a group - โดยรวม ทั้งคณะ (การตัดสินชี้ขาดจากศาล)
commercial: for business purposes - เกี่ยวกับการค้า
community: the people living in one particular area - ชุมชน
concern: a worry - ความกังวล
conditions: the weather at a particular time - สภาพอากาศ
cram: to push or force somebody/something into a small space; to move into a small space with the result that it is full - ยัด,ยัดเยียด,อัด
densely populated: having large numbers of people living there - 
departure: leaving - การออกจาก
depression: an area where the air pressure is low, often causing heavy rain - พายุดีเปรสชัน
deteriorate: to become worse - เลวร้ายลง
devastated: badly damaged or destroyed - ถูกทำลายล้าง
devastation: damage or destruction affecting a large area or a lot of people - การทำลายล้าง, การทำให้เสียหายอย่างรุนแรง
disaster: an extremely bad situation - ความโชคร้าย
displaced: (of people) forced to leave their home, especially because of war or a natural disaster - ซึ่งออกจากที่อยู่ไป, ซึ่งย้ายที่
downgrade: to reduce someone or something to a lower rank or position, to reduce the strength of something - ลดความสำคัญ,  ลดความรุนแรง
dramatically: in a big way - อย่างใหญ่หลวง
drown: to sink under water and die - จมน้ำ
due to: scheduled to - มีกำหนด
elsewhere: another place or other places - ที่อื่น
emerge: to come out of - ออกจาก
ensure: to make certain that something happens or is done - ให้การยืนยัน, รับรอง, ให้ความมั่นใจ
evacuate: to leave a place because it is not safe - อพยพออกจากพื้นที่
evacuation: moving people from a place of danger to a safer place - การอพยพ
evacuee: a person who leaves a place of danger - ผู้อพยพ
exceed: to be more than something; to go beyond a limit - เกินกว่าที่กำหนด
excess: an amount by which something is larger than something else - ส่วนเกิน
express: to tell someone about a feeling, opinion, or aim by speaking or writing about it - แสดงออก (ทางความคิดหรือความรู้สึก) โดยใช้คำพูดหรือการเขียน, พูดออกมา
extremely: very; to a very high degree - อย่างมาก, อย่างยิ่ง
fear: the bad feeling that you have when you are in danger, when something bad might happen, or when a particular thing frightens you - ความกลัว
flimsy: light and not providing much protection - ง่อนแง่น
footage: film or video of a particular subject or event - ฟิลม์หรือคลิปภาพยนตร์ หรือวิดีโอ
forecast: to say what you think will happen in the future based on information that you have now - ทำนาย, ทาย, พยากรณ์
fortunately: used for emphasizing that something good has happened, especially because of good luck - อย่างโชคดี, อย่างเคราะห์ดี
front: the line where a mass of cold air meets a mass of warm air - 
fuel: to cause something, usually bad, to happen; to increase something; to make something stronger - ก่อให้เกิด, ทำให้รุนแรงขึ้น
generate: to produce - ก่อให้เกิด
geophysical: the scientific study of the physics of the earth, including its atmosphere, climate and magnetism - เกี่ยวกับวิชาธรณีฟิสิกส์
grip: to have a powerful effect on somebody/something - ดึงดูดใจ, จับแน่น,  ทำให้ตื่นเต้น
gust: a sudden strong increase in the amount and speed of wind that is blowing - ลมพัดแรงทันที
hunker down: to prepare yourself to stay somewhereor do something for a long time; to sit on your heels with your knees bent up in front of you - นั่งขัดสมาธิ,  นั่งพับขา
impact: an effect or influence - ผลกระทบ
initially: at first - ในเบื้องต้น
joint: done together; belonging to or shared between two or more people - ที่ร่วมกัน, ความร่วมมือกัน
landfall: the place where a storm coming from the sea first hits land - การเข้าหาแผ่นดิน
landslide: a mass of rock and earth moving suddenly and quickly down a steep slope - แผ่นดินถล่ม
leg: one part of a competition - ผลัดหนึ่งในเกมการแข่งขันกีฬา
local: in or related to the area that you live, or to the particular area that you are talking about - ท้องถิ่น
makeshift: used temporarily for a particular purpose - ซึ่งทดแทนชั่วคราว, สำหรับใช้ชั่วคราว
manner: way - วิธีการ
massive: very large in size, amount or number - ใหญ่โต
maximum: the most possible - ที่สูงสุด ที่มากที่สุด
mayor: the most important elected official in a town or city - นายกเทศมนตรี
meanwhile: at the same time - ในเวลาเดียวกัน
megacity: an extremely large city or urban area - เมืองใหญ่
megalopolis: a very large city or group of cities where a great number of people live - อภิมหานคร, เมืองใหญ่หลายเมืองรวมกัน
meteorologist: a scientist who studies the weather and makes predictions - นักอุตุนิยมวิทยา
misery: something that causes people to suffer or be unhappy - ความทุกข์ยาก, ความยากแค้น, ความเดือดร้อน
monitor: keep track of - ตรวจ, ติดตาม, เฝ้าสังเกต
onshore: on the land rather than at sea or in a river or lake - บนฝั่ง,บนบก
optimism: a tendency to be hopeful and to expect that good things will probably happen - การมองในแง่ดี,ลัทธิความเบิกบานใจ
outrun: to run faster or further than somebody/something - วิ่งเร็วกว่า,วิ่งไกลกว่า
pack: to cause to be crowded; to cause to be full of people or things - ทำให้แน่น
palm: a straight tree with a mass of long leaves at the top, growing in tropical countries - ต้นปาล์ม
plot: to mark something on a map, for example the position or course of something - เขียนแผนที่, เขียนแผนผัง, ทำเครื่องหมายแสดง
population: a particular group of people or animals living in a particular area - กลุ่มที่อาศัยอยู่ในที่เดียวกัน
pound: to attack repeatedly - โจมตีต่อเนื่อง
pour into: (of people) to enter in large numbers - ไหลเข้า
predict: to say that an event or action will happen in the future, especially as a result of knowledge or experience - คาดการณ์ว่า พยากรณ์จากสถิติว่า
preparation: things that you do to get ready for something or make something ready - การตระเตรียม
prior: before - ก่อนหน้า
prolonged: continuing for a long time - ยืดเวลาออกไป
reachable: able to be contacted or reached - สามารถที่จะได้รับการติดต่อ
record: to make a written account of something that is kept so that it can be looked at and used in the future - บันทึก, รายงาน
recover: to become normal and healthy again - ฟื้นฟูสภาพ
remote: far away from other cities, towns, or people - ที่ห่างไกล 
resident: a person who lives in a particular area - ผู้ที่อาศัยในท้องที่
roar: a loud continuous noise made by the wind or sea, or by a machine - เสียงดังลั่น
ruins: the remains of a building that has been badly damaged or destroyed - ซากปรักหักพัง
scheduled: planned to happen at a particular time or day - ตามตารางเวลา
secretary general: the person who is in charge of the department that deals with the running of a large international or political organisation - เลขาธิการ, เลขาธิการใหญ่
semi-final (or semifinal): one of the two games that are played immediately before the last game in a sports competition. The two people or teams who win the semifinals play each other in the last game, called the final, to decide who wins the competition - การแข่งขันกีฬารอบรองชนะเลิศ
severe: very serious and worrying - ที่รุนแรง ที่น่าเป็นห่วง
shanty: a small house, built of pieces of wood, metal and cardboard, where very poor people live, especially on the edge of a big city - กระท่อมที่สร้างหยาบๆ
shelter: a place where people are protected from danger or bad weather; a temporary place to stay - ที่หลบภัย  ที่พักชั่วคราว
sigh: breathing out slowly making a long soft sound, especially because you are disappointed, tired, annoyed, or relaxed - การถอนหายใจ
significant: important - สำคัญ
situation: all the circumstances and things that are happening at a particular time and in a particular place - สถานการณ์
slightly: small in size or amount - เล็กน้อย
smash: to break something noisily into many pieces by dropping or hitting it with a lot of force - ทำให้แตกเป็นเสี่ยงๆ, ทำให้แตกเป็นชิ้นๆ
sought (past tense of seek): tried to get/do something; asked for something - พยายามได้, พยายามได้มา
sprawling: built over a wide area, often  in a way that is not carefully planned - เกี่ยวกับพื้นที่กว้างที่ไม่ได้วางแผนอย่างรอบคอบ
squad: a team in sports from which the players for a match are chosen - ทีม
state: government - รัฐบาล
stock market: the business of buying and selling shares in companies and the place where this happens; a stock exchange - ตลาดหุ้น
storey: a level in a structure; a level in a building - ชั้น, ชั้นของตึกหรืออาคาร
suburban: of an area or town near a large city but away from its centre - ชานเมือง
suffer: to be badly affected by a very difficult or unpleasant situation - ประสบความลำบาก
sunset: the time of the evening when the sun is no longer seen - พระอาทิตย์ตกดิน
surge: a sudden increase in something, in this case, the height of waves in the sea - การเพิ่มขึ้นอย่างรวดเร็ว ในที่นี้คือน้ำทะเลหนุน
surrounding: all around a place - บริเวณรอบๆ
survivor: someone who still exists after an event that could have killed or destroyed them - ผู้รอดชีวิต
suspend: to stop something for a short time - หยุดชั่วคราว
sustained: continuing at the same level - ต่อเนื่อง
temporary: done or used for only a limited period of time, i.e., not permanent - ชั่วคราว
terrifying: extremely frightening; causing great fear - น่าสะพรึงกลัว
thatch: dried straw, reeds, etc. used for making a roof; a roof made of this material - หลังคาใบจาก
threaten: to put at risk; to put in danger - ทำให้ตกอยู่ในความเสี่ยง
tide: the regular rise and fall of the level of the sea (the tides) - ปรากฏการณ์น้ำขึ้นน้ำลง, กระแสน้ำขึ้นน้ำลง
timely: happening at the most suitable time - ถูกกาละเทศะ
toll: the number of deaths and injuries caused by a disaster, accident, disease, etc. - การสูญเสีย
tore: past tense of "tear", ) to pull something so that it separates into pieces or gets a hole in it, or to become damaged in this way - ฉีก
track: to move in a particular direction or along a particular route (often used for storms) - เคลื่อน
typhoon: a tropical storm with strong winds that move in circles - พายุไต้ฝุ่น
uncontactable: unable to be contacted; having no possible communications - ไม่สามารถที่จะได้รับการติดต่อ
undertake: to do - เข้าทำ, ดำเนินการ
unfortunately: making you sad or disappointed, or getting you into a difficult position - เป็นที่น่าเสียดาย
unscathed: not harmed or damaged by something bad that has happened - ไม่ได้เสียหาย, ไม่ได้รับบาดเจ็บ
vulnerable: easily damaged or harmed - ซึ่งถูกทำลายได้ง่าย
warning: an action or statement telling someone of a possible problem or danger - การเตือน
wave: a raised line of water that moves across the surface of the sea, ocean, etc - คลื่น
weary: very tired, especially because of hard work or activity - เหนื่อยอ่อน, เหน็ดเหนื่อย
welfare: help given, especially by the state or an organization, to people who need it; good care and living conditions - สวัสดิภาพ
wrath: extreme anger - ความโกรธเคือง
yet to: not yet - ยังไม่ได้








Tell us what you think about this article


Like
dislike
4 people liked / 0 people disliked it




Share this article






0




0










 More + 
 


Republishing permission
Print this







More on this topic






 










Teera gets a driver's license

Published: 05 Jan 2015
Total views: 1,737










The stories behind the photos, part 2

Published: 01 Jan 2015
Total views: 1,325










The stories behind the photos, part 5

Published: 04 Jan 2015
Total views: 1,267












Homeless by choice, with a masters degree from the US

Published: 05 Jan 2015
Total views: 1,555










Iced coffee: Hidden health trap

Published: 02 Jan 2015
Total views: 1,234










The stories behind the photos, part 4

Published: 03 Jan 2015
Total views: 986












Origami robot: Folds, unfolds like transformers

Published: 02 Jan 2015
Total views: 39,626










Khao Yai monkeys want human food

Published: 05 Jan 2015
Total views: 1,212










At least 12 dead in Paris "terrorist attack"

Published: 07 Jan 2015
Total views: 565












Siam of the 1860s comes back to life

Published: 06 Jan 2015
Total views: 1,923










The stories behind the photos, part 3

Published: 02 Jan 2015
Total views: 1,101










Transportation challenge of 2015: Trains, trains, trains...

Published: 06 Jan 2015
Total views: 2,842




 
 
 

Other stories in this category

• At least 12 dead in Paris "terrorist attack"
• Latest TVs: Ultra-high definition, ultra-thin, ...
• Air Asia plane tail found, raising hopes that ...
• Sanitsuda's "river trip to hell"
• Transportation challenge of 2015: Trains, ...
• Siam of the 1860s comes back to life



Related search:
			
Typhoon Hagupit,  Philippines,  Suzuki Cup,  Haiyan











Bangkok Post online classifieds
Try buying & selling goods and properties 24/7 in our classifieds which has high purchasing power local & expatriate audience from within Thailand and around the world.
























Top five most viewed stories



78.9Kviews

The downside of fish spas




Vocab: 31, Words: 403



39.4Kviews

Origami robot: Folds, unfolds like transformers




Vocab: 61, Words: 625



34.4Kviews

Taxi fares go up in Bangkok Saturday




Vocab: 36, Words: 533



19.4Kviews

Be a reporter: Wind storm batters Satreeprasertsin School in Trat




Vocab: 23, Words: 404



16.4Kviews

River "monster" takes a walk




Vocab: 9, Words: 243












Continue learning English on:









0 people commented about the above

Readers are urged not to submit comments that may cause legal dispute including slanderous, vulgar or violent language, incorrectly spelt names, discuss moderation action, quotes with no source or anything deemed critical of the monarchy. More information in our terms of use.
Please use our forum for more candid, lengthy, conversational and open discussion between one another.


Latest
Oldest
Most replied to
Most liked
Most disliked





Click here to view more comments

Thank you for sharing your comment
Please be aware that all comments will be looked at by the web moderating team and we reserve the right to approve or reject comments at our discretion.


What's your comment?




I acknowledge the rule & regulations
Tick here to also post this comment on your facebook wall



Please log in or sign up for an account to share your valuable thoughts to the world.
Log in
Sign up















		Online content: 
Most recent
		| Top stories
		| News
		| Business
		| Opinion
		| Travel

		| Lifestyle


		| Learning
		| Tech
		| Property
		| Auto



		Online services: 
Thailand Guide
		| Local event calendar
		| Search
		| Hotel Booking
		| Online puzzle games
		| Horoscope
		| Forum
		| Classifieds
		| Online member



		Bangkok Post Digital Convergence: 
SMS Alert
		| E-paper
		| Print front page
		| Digital Archive
		| Newspaper Subscription
		| 
Twitter
		| 
Facebook
		| 
RSS



		Post Publishing Online Media Network: 
Post Today
		| M2Fjob
		| M2Fnews
		| Elle Thailand
		| Elle Décor Thailand
		| Student Weekly



		© 2014 The Post Publishing PCL: 
Terms of use
		| Republishing permission
		| Help
		| Sitemap
		| Online advertising
		| Classified advertising
		| Map
		| Contact Post
		| Tell us what you think 
		| Partnership 









Tweet









Print
Email







 Share 
 

















