More Than One Million Evacuated as Deadly Hagupit Lashes Philippines
More Than One Million Evacuated as Deadly Hagupit Lashes Philippines













New York, NY
Miami, FL
Los Angeles, CA
Browse for your location




















Today's Weather
Hourly Forecast
Extended
Weekend
Month Outlook
Current Weather





















Home


Radar & Maps
Radar Maps
Satellite Maps
Forecast Maps
Surface Maps


News & Video
Weather News
Weather Video
Weather Blogs
Personalities


Extreme Weather
Hurricane Center
Climate Change
Winter Weather
Severe Weather


Social
Social Media
Apps & Downloads
Weather Photos
Weather Forums


  












Login










AccuWeather.com Premium
AccuWeather.com Professional
AccuWeather.com RadarPlus
AccuWeather.com LightningPlus























My Settings




English (US)
Español
Français
Dansk
Português
Nederlands
Norsk
Italiano
Deutsch
Svenska
Suomi
中文 (HK)
中文 (SIM)
中文 (Taiwan)
Español (Argentina)
Español (Latin America)
Slovenčinu
Romana
Čeština
Magyar
Polski
Català
Português (Brazil)
हिन्दी
русский
عربي
Ελληνικά
English (UK)
日本語
한국어
TÜRKÇE
Français (Canada)
עברית
Slovenski
Українське
Bahasa Indonesia
български
Eesti keeles
Hrvatski
Қазақша
Lietuvių
Latviski
Македонски
Bahasa Melayu
Tagalog
Srpski
ไทย
Tiếng Việt
فارسی
বাংলা
bosanski
íslenska
Kiswahili
اُردُو
Crnogorski





°F



°C

















United States









My Recent Countries

United States
China
United Kingdom

More Countries

































United States

World
North America
United States
New York
New York












Close

My Recent Countries

United States
China
United Kingdom







Select a Region



Africa
Antarctica
Arctic
Asia
Central America
Europe
Middle East
North America
Oceania
South America











 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 






        Note: Select a region before finding a country. 
      











Weather
for

















Login

           , °F
















United States
Weather





New York, NY
Local Weather






Wind Chill Advisory
                












Migraine



x



























Add New Interest



























My Recent Locations

















Home





Radar & Maps




News & Video




Winter & Severe




Climate




Social














News



Videos


Blogs


Personalities











More Than One Million Evacuated as Deadly Hagupit Lashes Philippines




By Eric Leister, Meteorologist
December 9, 2014; 12:01 PM ET


Share
| 
 



A very dangerous situation is continuing to unfold in the Philippines as Hagupit, locally known as Ruby, continues to impact the nation. More than 30 million people have already been impacted by this cyclone.
As many as 24 people died due to the typhoon, now a tropical storm, government and disaster relief officials said.
Twenty-one of those people died in Borongan, Samar, according to the Philippine Red Cross.

Earlier updates from the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) said there were two other deaths as a result of Hagupit and that more than 1 million people are being served inside and outside of evacuation centers.
This animated GIF shows Hagupit tracking westward toward the Philippines. (NOAA/Satellite)
Hagupit made landfall in the province of Eastern Samar, just to the north of where Haiyan made landfall last year. Since landfall, Hagupit has continued a gradual weakening trend, but it remains a very dangerous system.
Hagupit was downgraded from a typhoon to a tropical storm on Sunday evening, but continued to impact the Philippines with windswept rain.
With landfall farther north, the areas hardest-hit by Haiyan escaped the worst tidal surge from Hagupit but were still impacted by heavy rainfall; this includes the city of Tacloban which was devastated by Haiyan. Many other areas are still trying to recover from Haiyan, leaving them more vulnerable to the impacts of Hagupit.

The system is moving away from the Philippines which is good news. However, it is doing so in a slow fashion which is prolonging the dangers for parts of the nation. The north-central Philippines continue to experience heavy rainfall and locally damaging winds, which is further increasing the overall damage and impacts of the storm.
Motorists pass by toppled electrical posts due to strong winds brought by Typhoon Hagupit in Camalig, Albay province, eastern Philippines on Sunday, Dec. 7, 2014. Typhoon Hagupit knocked out power in entire coastal provinces, mowed down trees and sent more than 650,000 people into shelters before it weakened Sunday, sparing the central Philippines a repetition of unprecedented devastation by last year's storm. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)
Despite passing to the south of Manila, the city will still see bands of heavy rainfall and gusty thunderstorms, though significant damage is not expected in the city due the weakening of the cyclone as it pulls away from the Philippines.
Rainfall has already produced dramatic flooding along the path of Hagupit with 150-300 mm (6-12 inches) falling across much of Visayas as well as southern and eastern Luzon and Mindoro.
"Some places are likely to have over 20 inches of rainfall because of the slow nature of the storm," said AccuWeather.com Meteorologist Matthew Rinde.
As of Sunday evening, local time, rainfall had surpassed 400 mm (16 inches) in Borongan and 350 mm (14 inches) in Catbalogan. Both cities are located on Samar Island where Hagupit made landfall.

This magnitude of rainfall has already produced widespread flooding and mudslides. This danger still threatens the nation due to the slow movement of Hagupit's heavy rain. Mudslides and flooding could result in some areas being cut off from outside aid for several days following this storm. Several road ways have already been closed due to flooding, landslides, and downed trees and powerlines.
(Photo/Twitter: Allan Gatus @allangatus)
Strong winds and saturated ground have already resulted in numerous downed trees and power lines. Power remained out in at least 17 provinces as of Monday evening, local time. Areas hardest hit could be without electricity for a week or longer.
Hagupit is also responsible for hundreds of sea vessels being stranded in ports, while several hundred flights were cancelled from various airports across the Philippines.
RELATED: Manila, Philippines Detailed ForecastPhilippines Weather CenterInteractive Philippines Weather Satellite
(Photo/Twitter: Allan Gatus @allangatus)
While Hagupit has weakened into a tropical storm, it is still an organized tropical system as it churns to the west of the Philippines. The cyclone will continue westward and could make another landfall with life-threatening impacts in Vietnam late this week.
Prior to its landfall in Vietnam, Hagupit is not expected to restrengthen into a typhoon, making it a much weaker storm than it was when it hit the Philippines. Before landfall in the Philippines, Hagupit strengthened into a super typhoon with sustained winds over 241 kph (150 mph), the equivalent  to a Category 4 hurricane in the Atlantic or Eastern Pacific Ocean.
Although the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) website was down due to technical problems on Thursday, it is now up and running.
People can also still get important weather information from AccuWeather, as well as the PAGASA Facebook Page and the PAGASA Twitter Page.
AccuWeather.com Meteorologist Courtney Spamer, Jordan Root, and Adam Douty contributed content to this story.




Weather News >


report a typo



















































Comments

Comments left here should adhere to the AccuWeather.com Community Guidelines. Profanity, personal attacks, and spam will not be tolerated.























More Weather News

 

Pittsburgh: Dangerous Cold to Last Into Saturday
January 7, 2015; 10:29 PM ET
Waves of arctic air will keep the Steel City shivering into the first half of the weekend.




 

Detroit: Dry, Cold Weather to Hold Through the Weekend
January 7, 2015; 10:28 PM ET
Following a bit of snow earlier in the week, drier weather will make a return to the Detroit area through the weekend, but frigid air will continue to grip the region.




 

Cleveland: Dry, Cold Weather to Hold Through the Weekend
January 7, 2015; 10:27 PM ET
Following a few showers of lake-effect snow through the week, drier weather will set in across the Cleveland area for the weekend, but the frigid air will continue to hold.




 

Arctic Cold to Grip Minneapolis Throughout the Week
January 7, 2015; 10:25 PM ET
Bitterly cold air will continue throughout the week in Minneapolis making for dangerous conditions to be outdoors.




 

Boston: Little Snow, Waves of Brutal Cold to Continue for Balance of Week
January 7, 2015; 10:24 PM ET
In the wake of the clipper storm that brushed southern New England with spotty snow on Tuesday, waves of cold will continue into the weekend around the Boston area.




 

DC: Little Snow, Waves of Brutal Cold to Continue for Balance of Week
January 7, 2015; 10:22 PM ET
In the wake of the clipper storm that brought accumulating snow to the Washington, D.C., area on Tuesday, waves of cold will continue into the weekend.





news Home >

















           Daily U.S. Extremes past 24 hours         Extreme Location     High N/A    Low N/A    Precip N/A               






















           WeatherWhys®     
            

           This Day In Weather History   The East (1996)                The "Blizzard of '96" wreaked havoc across
the eastern third of the nation.  Washington
D.C., Baltimore, philadelphia, New York, and
Boston became completely paralyzed.  Snowfall
amounts included a record 31" in Philadelphia,
20-24" in New York City, and 29' in Boston.
Drifts reached 10 feet.  Nearly 4 feet of
snow fell over the West Virginia mountains.
Winds gusted to nearly 80 mph on the Jersey
shore.
                
LA Civic Center (996)                87 degrees, new record for date.
                
Mid-Atlantic (1821)                Heavy snow:

Philadelphia, PA - 18"
New Haven, CT - 18"
Baltimore, MD - 14"
Washington, DC - 12"
                
          
























           Rough Weather    Today's Worst Weather World Hot Spot                  

















 






























































Win $1000 With MinuteCast
MinuteCast Sweepstakes
MinuteCast London
MinuteCast Outer Banks
MinuteCast Lake Placid
MinuteCast Augusta
AccuWeather for Android
AccuWeather's Superior Accuracy
Free Weather For Your Site
Forensic Weather
AccuWeather for Windows Phone
AccuWeather Premium
AccuWeather Professional
SkyGuard Warnings
AccuWeather for iPhone





















AccuWeather.com






















            Custom Search
            





Company
About Us
Advertise With Us
Self-Serve Advertising
Careers
Press
Contact Us




Enterprise Solutions
Media
Manufacturing
Retail
Finance & Banking
Energy
Forensic Weather Experts
All Enterprise Solutions




Subscription Services
AccuWeather Premium
AccuWeather Professional
AccuWeather RadarPlus
Lightning Plus




Partners





 © 2015 AccuWeather, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
        AccuWeather.com is a registered trademark of AccuWeather, Inc.
Terms of usage under which this service is provided
Privacy Statement | Ad Choices 


Apps & Downloads
Like Us
Follow Us
Watch Us








































 

















