Hagupit Poses 'Great Danger' to Rebuilding Progress in Haiyan-Battered Areas of Philippines
Hagupit Poses 'Great Danger' to Rebuilding Progress in Haiyan-Battered Areas of Philippines













New York, NY
Miami, FL
Los Angeles, CA
Browse for your location




















Today's Weather
Hourly Forecast
Extended
Weekend
Month Outlook
Current Weather





















Home


Radar & Maps
Radar Maps
Satellite Maps
Forecast Maps
Surface Maps


News & Video
Weather News
Weather Video
Weather Blogs
Personalities


Extreme Weather
Hurricane Center
Climate Change
Winter Weather
Severe Weather


Social
Social Media
Apps & Downloads
Weather Photos
Weather Forums


  












Login










AccuWeather.com Premium
AccuWeather.com Professional
AccuWeather.com RadarPlus
AccuWeather.com LightningPlus























My Settings




English (US)
Español
Français
Dansk
Português
Nederlands
Norsk
Italiano
Deutsch
Svenska
Suomi
中文 (HK)
中文 (SIM)
中文 (Taiwan)
Español (Argentina)
Español (Latin America)
Slovenčinu
Romana
Čeština
Magyar
Polski
Català
Português (Brazil)
हिन्दी
русский
عربي
Ελληνικά
English (UK)
日本語
한국어
TÜRKÇE
Français (Canada)
עברית
Slovenski
Українське
Bahasa Indonesia
български
Eesti keeles
Hrvatski
Қазақша
Lietuvių
Latviski
Македонски
Bahasa Melayu
Tagalog
Srpski
ไทย
Tiếng Việt
فارسی
বাংলা
bosanski
íslenska
Kiswahili
اُردُو
Crnogorski





°F



°C

















United States









My Recent Countries

United States
China
United Kingdom

More Countries

































United States

World
North America
United States
New York
New York












Close

My Recent Countries

United States
China
United Kingdom







Select a Region



Africa
Antarctica
Arctic
Asia
Central America
Europe
Middle East
North America
Oceania
South America











 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 



 World


 






        Note: Select a region before finding a country. 
      











Weather
for

















Login

           , °F
















United States
Weather





New York, NY
Local Weather






Wind Chill Advisory
                












Migraine



x



























Add New Interest



























My Recent Locations

















Home





Radar & Maps




News & Video




Winter & Severe




Climate




Social














News



Videos


Blogs


Personalities











Hagupit Poses 'Great Danger' to Rebuilding Progress in Haiyan-Battered Areas of Philippines




By Kevin Byrne, AccuWeather.com Staff Writer
December 9, 2014; 12:02 PM ET


Share
| 
 







Hagupit made landfall as a powerful typhoon in the Philippines late Saturday night local time in the Province of Eastern Samar, bringing sustained winds over 185 kph (115 mph) with gusts around 233 kph (145 mph.)
Major threats from Hagupit, named Ruby in the Philippines, include widespread flooding, strong winds and mudslides.
Hagupit will continue to slowly traverse the Philippines through Monday bringing damaging winds and torrential rainfall. AccuWeather.com Meteorologist Eric Leister writes. "Due to this slow movement, areas will experience this extreme weather for a long duration, further increasing the damage and impacts of the storm."
Flooding in Calbayog, Samar. #RubyPH #Hagupit pic.twitter.com/wgNqBq8MjX | via @atomaraullo— ABS-CBN News (@ABSCBNNews) December 7, 2014

The storm's landfall comes a little little over a year since Super Typhoon Haiyan brought devastation to the country and within 100 miles of where Haiyan first made landfall. More than 7,300 deaths are attributed to Haiyan with damages totaling 581.1 billion pesos ($12.9 billion) according to The Associated Press.
Recovery efforts from Haiyan are still ongoing, and there is concern that Hagupit's impacts could threaten to undo the rebuilding progress.
"Since Haiyan hit last year, many areas have been rebuilt, yet many are still under construction," said Nicole Harris, media relations manager for CARE, a humanitarian organization that works to fight global poverty and assist with natural disaster recovery. "There is a great danger that some of the progress of reconstruction will be diminished."
 Filipino families seek refuge at a school used as an evacuation center as they prepare for Typhoon Hagupit in Legazpi, Albay province, eastern Philippines Saturday, December 6, 2014. Typhoon Hagupit slammed into the central Philippines' east coast late Saturday, knocking out power and toppling trees in a region where 650,000 people have fled to safety, still haunted by the massive death and destruction wrought by a monster storm last year. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila)
The AP reported that 650,000 residents were evacuated as the storm bore down on the country.
"I'm scared," Haiyan survivor Jojo Moro told The AP. "I'm praying to God not to let another disaster strike us again. We haven't recovered from the first."
Following Haiyan, residents were more prepared to evacuate, according to Winnie Aguilar, a communications officer with CARE Philippines.
"The memories of Haiyan are still fresh, and while such memories somehow revive their trauma, such also encourage and inspire them to be better prepared and become safer," Aguilar said.
The most vulnerable populations have been evacuated to government-assigned evacuation centers with the hope being that people will generally be safer there according to Aguilar. Multiple government units and national agencies worked together to prepare for the storm and evacuation. In critical areas, relief goods were pre-positioned, Aguilar said.
"The government is generally giving assurances that plans and contingencies are in place for worst case scenarios in any event," she said.
After the catastrophic nature of Haiyan, many residents were frightened about the arrival of Hagupit, Harris said. Many were looking to leave, with long lines of people waiting to get on boats to the neighboring island of Cebu, she added.
RELATED: West Pacific Typhoon & Tropical Storm CenterPhilippines Weather CenterInteractive Philippines Weather Satellite
In Haiyan-affected areas CARE is working in, new shelters have been built with improved construction techniques made to make the buildings stronger and sturdier and are expected to better withstand typhoons.
However, Aguilar said many families outside of CARE's coverage area are still living in makeshift homes made of light materials and are using tarpaulins for walls and temporary walls.
"If they stay in their current locations, it would be difficult for them to withstand the threat of Hagupit but again, we hope the evacuations will cover all vulnerable areas to avoid any catastrophic impacts of Hagupit," she said.




Weather News >


report a typo



















































Comments

Comments left here should adhere to the AccuWeather.com Community Guidelines. Profanity, personal attacks, and spam will not be tolerated.























More Weather News

 

Pittsburgh: Dangerous Cold to Last Into Saturday
January 7, 2015; 10:29 PM ET
Waves of arctic air will keep the Steel City shivering into the first half of the weekend.




 

Detroit: Dry, Cold Weather to Hold Through the Weekend
January 7, 2015; 10:28 PM ET
Following a bit of snow earlier in the week, drier weather will make a return to the Detroit area through the weekend, but frigid air will continue to grip the region.




 

Cleveland: Dry, Cold Weather to Hold Through the Weekend
January 7, 2015; 10:27 PM ET
Following a few showers of lake-effect snow through the week, drier weather will set in across the Cleveland area for the weekend, but the frigid air will continue to hold.




 

Arctic Cold to Grip Minneapolis Throughout the Week
January 7, 2015; 10:25 PM ET
Bitterly cold air will continue throughout the week in Minneapolis making for dangerous conditions to be outdoors.




 

Boston: Little Snow, Waves of Brutal Cold to Continue for Balance of Week
January 7, 2015; 10:24 PM ET
In the wake of the clipper storm that brushed southern New England with spotty snow on Tuesday, waves of cold will continue into the weekend around the Boston area.




 

DC: Little Snow, Waves of Brutal Cold to Continue for Balance of Week
January 7, 2015; 10:22 PM ET
In the wake of the clipper storm that brought accumulating snow to the Washington, D.C., area on Tuesday, waves of cold will continue into the weekend.





news Home >

















           Daily U.S. Extremes past 24 hours         Extreme Location     High N/A    Low N/A    Precip N/A               






















           WeatherWhys®     
            

           This Day In Weather History   Atlanta, GA (1973)                Mixed freezing rain, sleet and snow led to
1-4" ice accumulation (from 7th to 8th).
Three hundred thousand people were without
electricity for up to a week.
                
Denver, CO (1992)                A blizzard paralyzed the city with 14.5"
of snow (from 7th to 8th) -- a new 24-hour
record for January. Strong winds led to
substantial drifting.
                
Goldsboro, NC (1995)                A wind just beyond 100 mph as a squall line
crossed the area.
                
          
























           Rough Weather    Today's Worst Weather World Hot Spot                  

















 






























































Win $1000 With MinuteCast
MinuteCast Sweepstakes
MinuteCast London
MinuteCast Outer Banks
MinuteCast Lake Placid
MinuteCast Augusta
AccuWeather for Android
AccuWeather's Superior Accuracy
Free Weather For Your Site
Forensic Weather
AccuWeather for Windows Phone
AccuWeather Premium
AccuWeather Professional
SkyGuard Warnings
AccuWeather for iPhone





















AccuWeather.com






















            Custom Search
            





Company
About Us
Advertise With Us
Self-Serve Advertising
Careers
Press
Contact Us




Enterprise Solutions
Media
Manufacturing
Retail
Finance & Banking
Energy
Forensic Weather Experts
All Enterprise Solutions




Subscription Services
AccuWeather Premium
AccuWeather Professional
AccuWeather RadarPlus
Lightning Plus




Partners





 © 2015 AccuWeather, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
        AccuWeather.com is a registered trademark of AccuWeather, Inc.
Terms of usage under which this service is provided
Privacy Statement | Ad Choices 


Apps & Downloads
Like Us
Follow Us
Watch Us








































 

















