Typhoon Haiyan: 30 members of one family missing after storm - CNN.com
Typhoon Haiyan: 30 members of one family missing after storm - CNN.com




























SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











Typhoon Haiyan: 30 members of one family missing after storm



By Hilary Whiteman, CNN
updated 2:35 AM EST, Tue November 12, 2013





Rogelio Tan, 68, is seen on the right. His family fears for his safety, along with dozens of other relatives in Tacloban.


STORY HIGHLIGHTS


Three days after Typhoon Haiyan, families fear for silent loved ones
Around 30 members of Daisy Nemeth's extended family are missing
Family's trying to hire someone to go to Tacloban to find them
Her 68-year-old uncle is missing, with children, wife, grandchildren, cousins






Hong Kong (CNN) -- Their faces stare from old photos, their voices silent since Super Typhoon Haiyan swept through Tacloban in the Philippines on Friday.
At first Daisy Nemeth wasn't worried. Her family was close, they kept in touch. Soon, no doubt, she'd hear from her home in Hong Kong that all were safe.
But three days later, that call hasn't come.
Around 30 family members are missing.


Tweets from @MadisonCNN/cnn-haiyan


"It's my uncle, my mom's brother is missing. All his children, his wife, everyone. My cousin is missing with her six children, they range in age from 9 to 19. Then I have many, many other missing cousins. But these are the ones we're the closest with -- and they're nowhere to be found," Nemeth said.
READ MORE: Survivors face grim struggle
She'd be there in a heartbeat to look for them herself, she said, but at six months' pregnant and a mother to twin toddlers, there's no way she can go, even if she could find a way in.
Instead, her family, some of whom are based in Denmark, has been trying to hire someone to go to Tacloban to search for them, but no one seems to want to go.
"If no one can or is even willing to do it, I can't even begin to imagine the situation there," she said.
"In the Philippines you can buy anything and anyone. I hate to say it but that's the truth. So if we can't even pay someone to go in and look for them..." Nemeth said, her voice trailing off.
READ MORE: 'We just can't keep going'
Nemeth's uncle, Rogelio Tan, is 68 years old and suffers from a severe learning disability. She's concerned for his safety if he's left to fend for himself.
She says her uncle doesn't always make the most sensible decisions, and fears what could happen "if he doesn't have his children with him to make good decisions for him.
"I don't know if they are hurt, if they can get help. It is really an awful situation to be in -- looking in and not being able to do anything. It's not that we don't have the funds to get them out, we don't have the people to get them out.
"It is extremely frustrating. I would be devastated if anything has happened to them but I would be even more devastated if something happened to them in the aftermath. The thought of it kills me."
Social help
For the past couple of days, Nemeth has been checking Facebook, where lists have been posted of survivors found in medical centers, and others are posting photos of lost family members in the hope that someone's seen them.
In a follow-up call with CNN, she revealed someone claiming to be the wife of her cousin, and the mother of three children, contacted her saying they were planning to make their way to Tacloban -- though Nemeth wants to check they are who they say they are. "I will obviously fund them if they are. We don't know anything yet."






 Haiyan's track



Haiyan's track







Survivors tell stories of terrible loss





Typhoon aftermath on Cebu island





Filipino expats desperate for news





UN: Logistics are biggest challenge

Unfortunately since her story was published on CNN, she's been inundated with messages from the wrong kind of people.
"I've heard from a lot of crazy people, a lot of people pretending to be family, wanting money. It is what it is -- I don't have it in me to deal with it. It drains you of what little energy you have."
One of the largest Facebook pages devoted to finding loved ones is "Tacloban (and nearby Waray Towns) Yolanda Update," where more than 17,000 users are swapping messages in a mixture of English and the local language, Tagalog.
Among the pleas for help are stories of survival.
"THANK YOU LORD JESUS CHRIST... just got a call from our mother and they are all complete and safe... they survived by drinking only water in our deep wheel without foods in 4 days... they walked 6 hours to reach the Tacloban City Hall just to be able to contact us.. they are now going to the airport to take the C130 to Cebu with my relatives," writes William Sherwin Ay-Ay.
Nemeth is hoping for a similar tale of survival but so far has seen nothing that has offered anything beyond graver fears that her family has disappeared without a trace.
"I've seen all the pictures and I'm scouring the pictures but I can't even recognize the neighborhoods," she said. "According to some Facebook groups, the area my uncle was in, it isn't even there any more."
But he says she has managed to get in touch with a former United Nations worker, who has offered to physically check possible addresses in Tacloban.
Hong Kong's Filipino community pulls together
Other Hong Kong residents, like Catherine Marsden, a Filipino drama teacher, have the same heartbreaking thoughts.
She attended a disaster response meeting at the office of the Consulate General of the Philippines in Hong Kong on Monday night. Speaking with unconcealed emotion she urged those present to not forget the other, so far, unreported areas affected by the typhoon.
"I'm planning to get help, from the immediate needs like baby formula and rice, to the rehabilitation efforts," said Marsden who has a house in Coron, a popular diving and holiday destination in northern Palawan.
Marsden has only been able to contact one friend who works at the Club Paradise beach resort who said that the surrounding local houses in the remote area were just not there anymore.
"I need to go and help these people, I'll go there myself if needs be," she said.
READ MORE: Your stories of survival

It's like nothing we've really seen before. It's too soon to say how many in the city have relatives or friends that have been affected by the disaster.Rosanna Villamor-Voogel, Philippines Consulate, Hong Kong

If the meeting illustrated the size of the task ahead, it also showed also the huge desire to help among Hong Kong's 180,000 Filipino population.
In the 17 months deputy consul general Rosanna Villamor-Voogel has been in the job, it was the fullest meeting of its kind.
"It really reflects the gravity of the disaster, it's like nothing we've really seen before," she said. "It's too soon to say how many in the city have relatives or friends that have been affected by the disaster."
WATCH: 'We will overcome,' says government
The advice conveyed by the consulate was for those with missing loved ones to email them their details: their names, mobiles numbers and last known locations. (Visit the Facebook page of the Consulate General of the Philippines in Hong Kong).
"From there we can consolidate by each area and give a list of the missing to agencies," said Villamor-Voogel.
Two telecoms companies from the Philippines have established call centers where those in the city worried about loved ones can call the country free-of-charge. "Although it depends on the cell phone coverage in the local areas," added Villamor-Voogel.
Cargo companies in the city have also stepped up and are offering to transport donated goods for free.
However the official advice is for those wanting to help to donate funds rather than goods because of the difficulty of accessing the affected areas.
The consulate's advice is to donate through the Philippine Red Cross, Department of Social Welfare and Development and the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council.
Numerous fund-raising events at schools and churches across the city are being planned for the weekend.
Lists of survivors are coming through from some areas, says Villamor-Voogel. A congressman from Leyte, Ferdinand Martin Romualdez, has put an updated list of those found on his Facebook page; something that Villamor-Voogel hopes others in similar positions will do, if they are able.
"I hope that all this can show the Philippines' spirit, that we are people who are determined and dedicated."
iReport: Looking for loved ones
How to help Haiyan survivors 

Dean Irvine contributed to this report





















































Part of complete coverage on 
Typhoon Haiyan


Panorama shows Haiyan wreckage

updated 8:12 PM EST, Tue November 19, 2013




A dozen body bags line the street in Tacloban -- one of the towns hardest hit by Super Typhoon Haiyan -- as locals walk through the destruction of what used to be their homes.



Cadaver dogs aid in typhoon recovery

updated 3:07 PM EST, Tue November 19, 2013




Cadaver dog teams are on the ground in the Philippines, helping to locate victims still buried in the rubble.



'The Filipino spirit is alive among us'

updated 5:02 AM EST, Tue November 19, 2013




CNN's Airmie Jarin-Bennett, an expat Filipino, returned to her native land after Typhoon Haiyan. Nothing prepared her for what she found there.



Desperate mom finds lost family

updated 11:27 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




As thousands of traumatized typhoon survivors struggled to escape the stricken city of Tacloban, Gina Ladrera was desperate to get back in. 



Drone's view of typhoon devastation 

updated 8:49 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




Karl Penhaul reports from the middle of the Tacloban devastation using a drone camera to get a bird's eye view. 



Amphibious ships join relief effort

updated 12:37 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




The USS George Washington is expected to leave the Philippines once two amphibious ships arrive there Wednesday, officials say.



Golfer loses eight relatives to typhoon

updated 8:00 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




The golf community is rallying around Jason Day after it emerged the Australian lost eight members of his family during the devastation wreaked by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.



Celebs help raise money for Haiyan aid

updated 4:41 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




The aftermath of Haiyan and the need for aid has celebrities working phones and taking donations. Max Foster reports.



Typhoon aid boosts U.S. soft power

updated 11:26 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




As an expression of hard power, they don't come bigger or more fearsome than the USS George Washington. 



A baby born in wreckage clings to life 

updated 3:21 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




The tiny, baby girl barely moves as she lies wrapped in a bundle of yellow plastic and green cloth on a peeling brown mattress made for a child far larger than she.



US aircraft carrier boosts relief effort

updated 9:04 PM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




The USS George Washington is on the front lines of the aid mission in the Philippines. CNN's Anna Coren reports.



Typhoon aftermath: Religion as solace

updated 1:12 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




The day after the typhoon, Father Edwin Bacaltos stepped out of the compound of the Church of Our Mother of Perpetual Help in central Tacloban and began his work.



Interactive: Haiyan's path of disaster

updated 12:33 AM EST, Fri November 15, 2013




Explore stories from typhoon survivors, relief workers, and officials from eight regions across the Philippines.



A mother's grief: I wish I was dead

updated 6:47 PM EST, Sun November 17, 2013




A distraught mother who lost her young sons in the tidal surge of Super Typhoon Haiyan feels her life is over.



Video shows moment typhoon hit 

updated 2:45 PM EST, Sun November 17, 2013




This video shows how strong the storm surge was during Super Typhoon Haiyan. 



Philippines survivors crowd airport

updated 9:02 AM EST, Sun November 17, 2013




CNN's Anna Coren reports from Tacloban's airport as Typhoon Haiyan survivors wait to evacuate.



Many waiting for help in remote areas 

updated 9:21 AM EST, Fri November 15, 2013




The Philippine govt. is defending its efforts against accusations people there are not getting desperately needed help.



How to help Typhoon Haiyan survivors

updated 2:21 PM EST, Fri November 22, 2013




How charities and nongovernmental organizations from around the world are responding to the disaster, and how you can help them make a difference.



Photos: Typhoon Haiyan

updated 6:54 PM EST, Wed November 27, 2013




The storm affected 4.3 million people in 36 provinces and displaced more than 340,000. 



Children among Haiyan victims

updated 6:33 PM EST, Wed November 27, 2013




Typhoon Haiyan, one of the strongest storms in recorded history, left thousands of victims in its wake.



Typhoon Haiyan relief efforts

updated 6:24 PM EST, Wed November 27, 2013




Troops and aid organizations help Filipinos struggling to survive the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan, one of the strongest storms in recorded history.



Hear typhoon slam into the Philippines

updated 6:59 PM EST, Mon November 11, 2013




CNN reporters capture sounds and images of Typhoon Haiyan's devastating trek through Tacloban, Philippines.



Town crushed by 'giant hand'

updated 7:40 AM EST, Mon November 11, 2013




'I was gob-smacked as we made our final approach into the ruins of the airport in Tacloban,' says CNN's Ivan Watson.



Photos: Haiyan's wrath from above

updated 9:58 AM EST, Sat December 7, 2013




Flattened forests and flooded villages in the Philippines seen from the air.


 






















   
     











