FARK.com: FarkIt Link Submission 
FARK.com: FarkIt Link Submission   
 Do you have adblock enabled?






        Real news. Real funny.
     
    Report

 Real news. Real funny.   
 


 How To Fark Log In  |  Sign Up »



Login



Password






Forgot password?


X



   
 



 

Fark
TotalFark
myFark
About/FArQ Contests Store
Contact Us
Mobile



Search:




  

 

 




Password



Login


 Turn on javascript (or enable it for Fark) for a better user experience.



 

  
   




 

If you can read this, either the style sheet didn't load or you have an older browser that doesn't support 
style sheets. Try clearing your browser cache and refreshing the page.






Main
Sports
Business
Geek
Entertainment
Politics
Video
FarkUs  


Thanks for submitting a link via FarkIt! To complete the link submission, you need to log into Fark.com.

If you already have a Fark.com username and password:
Enter them above and click "login" to proceed to the link submission page.

If you are new to Fark.com:
Please take a moment and create a free account.


Fark.com Top Ten Links (past 24 hours)
 
9


Apparently CBS newsman Steve Kroft found a satisfying way to fill 60 minutes

(118)
 
21


Either this is the luckiest woman alive or Final Destination 7 has begun shooting in Brazil

(53)
 
12


Introducing the Stop the Birth Rate Decline Bra. Stay weird, Japan

(91)
 
29


Bodybuilders get into a forum flame war over how many days they think there are in a week

(148)
 
45


One of the French terrorist suspects has surrendered. Three suspects are still on the loose and are being hunted by the police (Link & headline updated)

(415)
 
3


LG launches a fridge WITHIN a fridge, so you can keep you food cool, while you are keeping your food cool. Dawg

(86)
 
23


Finally, the truth: Hoppy beer is awful, it's making people hate beer, and "craft brewers" need to stop making it now

(428)
 
4


Monster sues Beats. Evidently they had a patent on the idea of mixing $5 worth of technology with $150 worth of marketing and selling the item for $329.99

(158)
 
5


File this under Good To Know as temperatures across North America hit arctic lows today: If you have frost or ice on your windshield, don't throw hot water on it unless you don't want a windshield anymore. We're looking at you, Georgia. As usual

(105)
 
19


Have an order of eggs and home fries while you check out the best diners in every state. Bonus: Kentucky's is Drew's Saturday morning hangout

(151)
 




 


Submit a Link » 
     Report
Advertise on Fark

   Like Fark!
+1 Fark!

 Follow @Fark

On Twitter


Follow Fark On Pinterest



 

Top Links
Top Comments
Top Submitters
Top Individual Comments
Press/Publicity
Top Sources/Topics


Headlines of the Week


All Latest
Fark Forum Link Voting
Sports Forum
Fark Blogs
Geek Forum
Fark Book
Entertainment Forum
Fark Travel Guide
Politics Forum
Fark Parties
Fark Party Forum
Fark Chat
Photoshop Forum
PS/Photo Browser
Farktography Forum
Fark Quiz

     Report
 
In Other Media

News from e-generator.net
 
Stories from our partner sites:
  Walt's Wild Men: LIFE Behind the Scen... Brando Takes Broadway: LIFE on the Se... Last Call: Prohibition and the Speake... 'It's a Wonderful Life': Rare Photos... More news at Life »
   Donnie Loves Jenny: 5 Fast Facts You... Template: 5 Fast Facts You Need to Know Neil Patrick Harris as Chester on 'Am... Panthers vs. Seahawks: Point Spread,... More news at Heavy »
   Country Singer Kinky Friedman Claims... Benedict Cumberbatch And His Fiancee... Man Invents 'Euthanasia Coaster' To O... LL Cool J Is The New Host Of Jimmy Fa... More news at UPROXX »
 
 





Links are submitted by members of the Fark community.



When community members submit a link, they also write a custom headline for the story.



Other Farkers comment on the links. This is the number of comments. Click here to read them.



You need to create an account to submit links or post comments.



Click here to submit a link.



 Also on Fark

 
Main
Say what you will about communism in Cuba, but it has certainly turned the island into a bunch of DIY engineers and inventors ( pbs.org ) » (17 comments)
 
Sports
Piston coach Stan Van Gundy's defensive plan, leading 105-104 with 0.1 seconds left in the game: "just form a f**king wall" around the basket ( dimemag.com ) » (2 comments)
 
Business
Dick's may go private ( news.yahoo.com ) » (12 comments)
 
Geek
Say what you will about communism in Cuba, but it has certainly turned the island into a bunch of DIY engineers and inventors ( pbs.org ) » (17 comments)
 
Entertainment
Meet your Puppy Bowl 2015 XI lineup ( nypost.com ) » (4 comments)
 
Politics
Staying true to his party's credo, Curt Schilling blames Hall of Fame snub on his being a Republican ( hardballtalk.nbcsports.com ) » (83 comments)
 
Video
Puppy vs. Cat for a pet bed. Who will win? ( youtube.com ) » (5 comments)
 
FarkUs
You can watch a creepy elderly version of yourself yell at you to cut your damn hair and get off the lawn on this bizarre website. Farmer's Market DLC expected soon ( mirror.co.uk ) » (1 comment)
 
 
Fark :: Main | Sports | Business | Geek | Entertainment | Politics | Video | FarkUs
Total Fark :: TotalFark | TF Discussion | All | Commented | Top Voted | Greenlit
FArQ :: About Us | Quick Answers | FarkIt | Posting Rules | Farkisms
Contests :: Photoshop | Farktography | VideoEdit | Caption
Buy Fark :: Fark Book | Fark Store

Submit a Link »

        Copyright © 1999 - 2015 Fark, Inc | Last updated: Jan 07 2015 22:39:48
Contact Us  |  Report a bug/error msg  |  Advertise on Fark  |  Terms of service/legal/privacy policy
 Runtime: 0.033 sec (33 ms) 
 

 
 










    Report

 
