Update from the Philippines | Every Mother Counts 
Update from the Philippines | Every Mother Counts



First Name 



Last Name 



Email Address  *




City 


Close 


 









 

















 
 




DONATE







 


LEARN
OUR WORK
Act
SHOP
BLOG
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 




  Update from the Philippines


















 


11/14/13

EVERY MOTHER COUNTS STAFF
Update from the Philippines


While rescue workers and humanitarian organizations work to bring food, water and shelter to the hardest hit areas, medical care remains sparse and hospitals are mostly non-existent.

Five days into the disaster created by Typhoon Haiyan, the desperation survivors are experiencing is growing exponentially.  While rescue workers and humanitarian organizations work to bring food, water and shelter to the hardest hit areas, medical care remains sparse and hospitals are mostly non-existent.  Whenever natural disasters like this one hit, we’re haunted by the fact that despite the fact that no safe birth facilities, water, electricity or other essentials exist anymore, women will still go into labor.  They’ll still give birth, but now, they’ll deliver their babies in public, in any shelter they can find and in makeshift emergency clinics. 
Many of these mothers and babies will face dire complications.  Some of these will be similar to the ones every mother is at risk for during childbirth – hemorrhage, infection, hypertensive disorders, obstructed labor and mal-positioned babies.  Other mothers, however, will be suffering from complications directly resulting from the Typhoon – dehydration, water-borne illnesses, violence, exposure and injuries occurred during or after the storm.  Their babies will experience the same issues every newborn faces.  Sometimes, their transition to life outside their mother’s body requires a little help – help that is not available.

We read one news story about a young, first-time mother who delivered her newborn in a church.  The baby girl couldn’t breathe because her airway was blocked with mucous.  Under normal circumstances, a nurse would have quickly suctioned the baby’s nose, mouth and airway; given her a whiff of oxygen and the baby would have been just fine.  But during this baby’s birth, there was no nurse, no suction equipment and no oxygen.  This baby girl died and at the time the news story was written, she was wrapped in plastic, lying next to her mother in a church pew. 
How do emergency and rescue organizations even begin to deal with women’s needs during a disaster this massive?  We spoke with representatives from CARE, a global humanitarian and emergency relief organization whose staff members living in the Philippines at the time of the Typhoon sprung into action immediately.  Other emergency response teams arrived shortly after and began implementing a disaster plan.  Here’s how they put that plan into action:
In acute emergencies to ensure that lifesaving reproductive health services are in place from the very start of an emergency situation, we (CARE) work with key partner organizations to ensure that the Minimum Initial Service Package (MISP) for Reproductive Health in Crisis Situations, an Internationally recognized set of priority activities is implemented . After a crisis situation stabilizes, implementation of comprehensive sexual and reproductive health services is available.

The five objectives of the MISP are as follows:

To ensure that the health sector/cluster identifies a organization to implement the MISP
To prevent and manage the consequences of sexual violence
Reduce the transmission of HIV/AIDS
Prevent excess maternal morbidity and mortality
Plan for comprehensive RH services to be integrated into primary health services 

We’ll keep the updates coming whenever possible, but for those of you in the NYC area eager to help right now, our friends at Afya (whose mission is to recover targeted surplus medical supplies, hospital equipment and humanitarian provisions to support ongoing health initiatives in Africa and the Caribbean) are asking for immediate donations.  Here’s what they need to support mothers and babies in the Philippines:  

Sanitary pads
Baby diapers,
Wipes
Baby blankets
Ready-made formula (for babies without mothers)
Bottles and nipples. 

They’re also asking for donations of:

Food (preferably ready-to-eat)
Water
Water purifier
Water containers
Tents and other temporary shelters
Blankets, pillows, towels, etc.
Hygiene kits
Cooking apparatus and utensils
Power generators
Medicines and medical supplies

Donations should be delivered or mailed to:
Afya Foundation
140 saw mill river road
Yonkers, NY 10701
Questions can go to Admin@afyafoundation.org  (914) 9205081
To make cash donations to organizations providing emergency relief: 
CARE is delivering food, water, shelter and other essentials to the survivors of typhoon Haiyan. CARE is among the oldest humanitarian organizations to focus on the needs of girls and women. Donate here.
The Red Cross volunteer rescue and relief teams are providing assistance in the hardest hit communities, including assisting in search and rescue efforts and distributing food and relief supplies to survivors. Donate here.
Mercy Corps is deploying seasoned emergency responders to the Philippines and will be working with partners on the ground to meet the urgent humanitarian needs of survivors.  Donate here.
UNICEF is taking donations to help provide children with shelter, clean water, nutrition and vaccines. Donate here.
Save the Children is working around the clock to help children and families with emergency assistance during this difficult time. Donate here.





In The News
Afya Foundation, CARE, childbirth, disaster relief, Mercy Corps, philippines pregnancy, Save the Children, The Red Cross, Typhoon Haiyan, UNICEF Maternal Health

 
 

 
 
&laquo »



 





 CategoriesMaternal Health 101s
General Health & Nutrition
Related Development Issues
Maternal Health & the Global Agenda
Our Community
Grant Updates
Global Birth Club
Birth Stories
Stories From The Ground
Notes From Us
In The News
Press
Book & Film Club
 Future Events


Fifty-Eighth Session of the Commission on the Status of Women



March 10 @ 8:00 am - May 21 @ 5:00 pm 


View All Events 




 
 





 about us

100% model
our staff
board of directors
grants

  contact us

646 - 918 - 6609
info@everymothercounts.org
FAQs
contact us

  resources

download resources
request a speaker
press
events

   
privacy policy - photo credits

		every mother counts® is a 501(c)(3)
	



















 
 
 
 


Every Mother Counts
				© 2013			 
 






























