Google exec Dan Fredinburg killed in Nepal quake - NY Daily News  Google exec Dan Fredinburg killed in Nepal quake - NY Daily News 
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S.     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs       
  
  
            Google executive Dan Fredinburg killed in avalanche caused by massive Nepal earthquake  BY   Deborah Hastings   NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Saturday, April 25, 2015, 4:55 PM  A A A        Share this URL                 Adventurer and Google exec Dan Fredinburg was among at least 14 climbers killed on Mount Everest when a massive earthquake triggered an avalanche.    Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP Sophia Bush, left, and Google exec Dan Fredinburg arrive at the 2013 Do Something Awards in Los Angeles.    Azim Afif/AP In this photo provided by Azim Afif people approach the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal, on Saturday. Afif and his team of four others from the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM) all survived the avalanche.    Azim Afif via AP This photo provided by Azim Afif shows the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp in Nepal.    Previous Next        Enlarge   
	Google executive Dan Fredinburg, an adventurer who had climbed Mount Everest before, was among those killed Saturday by a horrific icefall caused by a 7.9-magnitude quake in Nepal.

	Fredinburg, 33, who once dated actress Sophia Bush, sustained massive head injuries, his sister said.

MORE THAN 1,400 KILLED IN 7.9 NEPAL QUAKE 

	"I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn't make it," his sister, Megan, posted on his Instagram account.       There are no adequate words. Today I find myself attempting to pick up the pieces of my heart that have broken into such tiny shards, I'll likely never find them all. Today I, and so many of my loved ones, lost an incredible friend. Dan Fredinburg was one-of-a-kind. Fearless. Funny. A dancing robot who liked to ride dinosaurs and chase the sun and envision a better future for the world. His brain knew how to build it. His heart was constantly evolving to push himself to make it so. He was one of my favorite human beings on Earth. He was one of the great loves of my life. He was one of my truest friends. He was an incredible brother, a brilliant engineer, and a damn good man. I'm devastated and simultaneously so deeply grateful to have known and loved him, and to have counted him as one of my tribe. I was so looking forward to our planned download of "all the things" when he got home. I am crushed that I will never hear that story. I am crushed knowing that there are over 1,000 people in Nepal suffering this exact feeling, knowing that they too will never hear another tale about an adventure lived from someone that they love. Disasters like this are often unquantifiable, the enormity is too much to understand. Please remember that each person who is now gone was someone's Dan. Please remember that our time on this Earth is not guaranteed. Please tell those you love that you do. Right now. This very minute. And please send a kiss to the sky for my friend Dan. His energy is so big and so bright, and it's all around us, so put some love toward him today. And then hug your loved ones again. #goodbyesweetfriend #savetheice #Nepal A photo posted by Sophia Bush (@sophiabush) on Apr 25, 2015 at 2:07pm PDT
 

	"All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us. Thank you," she said.

	Bush also took to Instagram, posting a long note praising Fredinburg and calling him "one of the greatest loves of my life," she wrote. "There are no adequate words," she said. "Today I find myself attempting to pick up the pieces of my heart that have broken into such tiny shards I'll likely never find them all."

GUIDES BOYCOTT MOUNT EVEREST AFTER 2014 AVALANCHE KILLS 16               View Gallery  Scenes from Nepal after earthquake  

	He was one of at least 14 killed at Mount Everest, when about 1,000 climbers were on or around the mountain. Fredinburg had survived last year's deadly avalanche that killed 16 Sherpas at the world's tallest peak.

	He was climbing Everest with British-based Jagged Globe, which sponsors mountain expeditions.

	He described himself on Twitter as "an adventurer, inventor and energetic engineer."      

	A statement on Jagged Globe's website said "Our hearts and prayers go out to Dan's family and friends whilst we pray too for all those who have lost their lives in one of the greatest tragedies ever to hit this Himalayan nation."

	Fredinburg, who lived in the San Francisco Bay Area, was the head of privacy for Google X.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.    Tags:  google      


   


   








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               
       

      
                 Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   People behind D.C. murders, fire likely knew victims: report     2   Ohio teacher fired after confronting school bully: report     3   NFLer's wife sues ex-boss at Manhattan firm for harassment     4   Bandidos and Cossacks: What to know about outlaw biker gangs     5   Sicko Michigan nurse guilty in killing, dismemberment of son     6   Valencia College sued over claims of forced vaginal exams     7   Twin Peaks biker gang shootout: Nearly 200 arrested in Waco     8   Utah school removes special needs students from yearbook     9   Cruise ship horror as 10-year-old girl drowns in pool     10   WATCH: Fan at Mets game gropes woman         1   Man turns fart recording into symphony ‘rectum opus'     2   Ohio teacher fired after confronting school bully: report     3   Cruise ship horror as 10-year-old girl drowns in pool     4   Cancer charities misused $187 million in donations: feds      5   New York man falls in Yellowstone trying to take photo     6   People behind D.C. murders, fire likely knew victims: report     7   Sicko Michigan nurse guilty in killing, dismemberment of son     8   WATCH: Fan at Mets game gropes woman     9   Tenn. teen who got into 8 Ivies decides on U. of Ala.     10   Utah school removes special needs students from yearbook               
News Video


   


PC Richard and Son

      








Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      