Philippines braces for Super Typhoon Hagupit - CNN.com
Philippines braces for Super Typhoon Hagupit - CNN.com


















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











Philippines braces for Super Typhoon Hagupit



By Madison Park, CNN
updated 10:26 PM EST, Fri December 5, 2014
















STORY HIGHLIGHTS


NEW: Storm regains super typhoon status
Super Typhoon Hagupit expected to make landfall Saturday night
One city expects to evacuate 75,000 ahead of storm
Forecasts predict it will skirt north Tacloban, devastated last year by Haiyan











(CNN) -- Still scarred by last year's devastating Super Typhoon Haiyan, residents of the Philippines rushed Friday to stock up supplies and take cover ahead of another potentially catastrophic storm.
Super Typhoon Hagupit, known locally as Ruby, is expected to make landfall Saturday evening, according to PAGASA, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration.
It is approaching the Philippines from the western Pacific Ocean and is projected to make landfall on the Eastern Samar or Northern Samar province. The storm is expected to skirt north of the city of Tacloban, which was devastated by Haiyan last year.
Officials in the coastal city of Legazpi expect to evacuate an estimated 75,000 people ahead of Typhoon Hagupit, Mayor Noel Rosal told CNN on Friday.


Super Typhoon Hagupit


"There's a danger that there will be heavy rains for about four hours and I am very, very worried at this moment," Rosal said.












This image captured by NASA's Aqua satellite shows Typhoon Hagupit on Wednesday, Dec. 3, 2014 at 04:30 UTC in the western Pacific Ocean. The Philippines weather bureau is advising the public to brace for Typhoon Hagupit which continues to head towards the country. 






Residents arrive at an evacuation center in Tacloban city, Leyte province, central Philippines Thursday, Dec. 4, 2014, as they prepare for approaching Typhoon Hagupit.






Philippine President Benigno Aquino III, right, and Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa watch the presentation of officials of the National Disaster Risk Reduction & Management Council in Manila. 






Meteorologists from the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) monitor and plot the direction of super typhoon Hagupit on December 4, 2014.






Typhoon Haiyan survivors, some of whom are still living in tents, queue up to buy groceries in Tacloban city, in central Philippines in anticipation of the incoming Typhoon Hagupit which is forecasted to hit the country this weekend.






A woman from Tanauan township boards a tuk tuk carrying her belongings in anticipation of Typhoon Hagupit.






Typhoon Hagupit heads to Philippines





HIDE CAPTION



<<
<





1





2





3





4





5





6


>
>>





Typhoon Hagupit



INTERACTIVE: See the latest satellite and path of the storm
The storm lost, then regained, super typhoon status Friday. By Friday night, it was packing potentially devastating sustained winds of 240 kilometers per hour (150 miles per hour), with even stronger gusts.
Most forecasters predict the storm will move northwest through the island nation after landfall, passing south of the capital city of Manila. PAGASA projects that the storm will exit the country on Wednesday.
Hagupit, the name used by World Meteorological Organization, means "lash" in Filipino.
How Tacloban is coping
Fears over effects of the storm
With the storm fast approaching, authorities are not only worried about the typhoon itself, but the effects of the fierce winds, possible flooding and storm surge.
PAGASA warned of intense rainfall, warning of rainfall between 7.5 and 20 millimeters per hour and rough seas. It also warned of storm surge that could reach up to 5 meters (16 feet) high.
Last year, Haiyan's massive storm surge caught many people off guard as it roared in off the Gulf of Leyte, splintering buildings and tossing large ships onto dry land.
Tacloban Mayor Alfred Romualdez said they're better prepared this year, having learned the lessons of Haiyan a year ago. Residents are taking the storm warnings very seriously and most people have fled the city, he told CNN.
The ferocious storm obliterated homes, smashed entire neighborhoods into tangled heaps of debris. More than 6,000 people were killed last year.


Dear God, we all know You can hear our prayers... Please make everyone safe. Amen 🙏
.
#RubyPh #keepsafe http://t.co/Mlr9Fm4osI— EJS (@ericjohnsalut) December 4, 2014



Multiple domestic flights on local carrier Cebu Air involving destinations like Butuan, Surigao and Tandag on the east coast have been canceled due to weather.
Many Filipinos took to social media to spread warnings, urge each other to prepare and pray for the country.
"Hoping for the best, expecting the worst," Twitter user jinglebelles17 posted.

CNN's Elwyn Lopez, Judy Kwon and Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.















































Part of complete coverage on 
Typhoon Hagupit


CNN storm tracker





Get the latest satellite images and data as CNN tracks Typhoon Hagupit.



CNN reporters in storm

updated 9:01 PM EST, Sat December 6, 2014




CNN reporters Saima Mohsin and Andrew Stevens report from Legapzi and Tacloban amid heavy rain, wind.



Typhoon Hagupit's projected path

updated 8:58 PM EST, Sat December 6, 2014




CNN Meteorologist Tom Sater tracks the path of Typhoon Hagupit as it drenches the Philippines.



Typhoon moving slowly west

updated 1:14 AM EST, Sun December 7, 2014




The typhoon sends thousands of people into shelters amid pouring rain that heightens the risk of flooding and landslides.



Philippines gets lots of disasters

updated 9:10 PM EST, Fri December 5, 2014




Powered by ferocious winds, Typhoon Hagupit is whipping towards central Philippines and could affect the same area hit by the deadly Typhoon Haiyan just 13 months ago.



Tacloban braces for Hagupit

updated 7:57 PM EST, Thu December 4, 2014




A year after Haiyan ravaged Tacloban, its residents again prepare for a huge storm. CNN affiliate 9TV reports.



Year's worst storm moves in

updated 5:53 PM EST, Thu December 4, 2014




Typhoon Hagupit is bearing down on the Philippines. Meteorologist Tom Sater looks at where it might make landfall.



Typhoon Haiyan: A survivor's story

updated 10:58 AM EST, Fri November 7, 2014




Filmmaker and Philippine native Jeff Manibay shares his personal story of surviving Typhoon Haiyan.



What made Haiyan so powerful

updated 7:37 PM EST, Thu November 6, 2014




Meteorologist Tom Sater looks back at the chaos brought by Typhoon Haiyan one year after it devastated the Philippines.



Panorama shows Haiyan wreckage

updated 8:12 PM EST, Tue November 19, 2013




A dozen body bags line the street in Tacloban -- one of the towns hardest hit by Super Typhoon Haiyan -- as locals walk through the destruction of what used to be their homes.



'The Filipino spirit is alive among us'

updated 5:02 AM EST, Tue November 19, 2013




CNN's Airmie Jarin-Bennett, an expat Filipino, returned to her native land after Typhoon Haiyan. Nothing prepared her for what she found there.



Drone view of Haiyan's devastation 

updated 8:49 AM EST, Mon November 18, 2013




Karl Penhaul reports from the middle of the Tacloban devastation using a drone camera to get a bird's eye view. 



Interactive: Haiyan's path of disaster

updated 12:33 AM EST, Fri November 15, 2013




Explore stories from typhoon survivors, relief workers, and officials from eight regions across the Philippines.



Video shows moment typhoon hit 

updated 2:45 PM EST, Sun November 17, 2013




This video shows how strong the storm surge was during Super Typhoon Haiyan. 



Photos: Typhoon Haiyan

updated 6:54 PM EST, Wed November 27, 2013




The storm affected 4.3 million people in 36 provinces and displaced more than 340,000. 


 

















   
     











