BBC News - Typhoon Haiyan: Philippines destruction 'absolute bedlam'







BBC News - Typhoon Haiyan: Philippines destruction 'absolute bedlam'
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Asia







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























11 November 2013
Last updated at 11:46


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Typhoon Haiyan: Philippines destruction 'absolute bedlam'









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























''We are so very hungry and thirsty'' one survivor told the BBC's Jon Donnison in Tacloban




Continue reading the main story


Typhoon Haiyan


A smiling mask


Tour a street


Before and after


Mapping Haiyan



 The head of the Red Cross in the Philippines has described the devastation caused by Typhoon Haiyan as "absolute bedlam".
Officials estimate up to 10,000 people have died in Tacloban city and elsewhere. Hundreds of thousands of people are displaced.
Rescue efforts are being hindered by damage to roads and airports.
The storm has now made landfall in north Vietnam, near the Chinese border, but has weakened to a tropical storm.
One of the most powerful storms on record to make landfall, Haiyan - named "Yolanda" by Filipino authorities - barrelled into the eastern coastal provinces of Leyte and Samar on Friday.
It then headed west, sweeping through six central Philippine islands.
Supplies

Continue reading the main story 


At the scene
Jon Donnison BBC News, Tacloban



Tacloban has been flattened. Driving down the main high street, hardly a single building is left standing. 
People say this town was hit by a wall of water when the typhoon hit on Friday. There is the stench of rotting corpses. Driving in from the airport, we saw scores of bodies lying by the roadside. For three days they have been there, with no one to bury them. 
People are desperate for food, clean water and shelter. At the badly battered airport, a makeshift hospital has been set up. We saw two young women giving birth, laid out among the debris. 
Aid is getting in, but slowly. And this is just one town, in one province. No-one knows the full extent of the devastation elsewhere.


Read more from Jon

 More than nine million people have been affected in the Philippines. Many are now struggling to survive without food, shelter or clean drinking water.
A picture is slowly emerging of the full damage wrought by the storm:

 The exposed easterly town of Guiuan, Samar province - population 40,000 - is said to be largely destroyed
 Tacloban, Leyte province, was largely flattened by a massive storm surge and scores of corpses are piled by the roadside, leaving a stench in the air as they rot, say correspondents. Hundreds of people have gathered at the airport desperate for food and water, others trying to get a flight out
 Disaster worker Dennis Chong told the BBC that assessments in the far north of Cebu province had shown some towns had suffered "80-90% damage"
 Baco, a city of 35,000 in Oriental Mindoro province, was 80% under water, the UN said.
 A huge international relief effort is under way, but rescue workers have struggled to reach some towns and villages cut off since the storm.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
People are not receiving food or water... I'm worried it may become a mob situation - we need the military to get there as soon as possible”
End Quote
Kevin Vacca
US missionary, Maya, northern Cebu

 US missionary delivers aid
 Survivor's story

 "There's an awful lot of casualties, a lot of people dead all over the place, a lot of destruction," Richard Gordon, head of the Philippine Red Cross, told the BBC.
"It's absolute bedlam right now, but hopefully it will turn out better as more and more supplies get into the area."
"The situation is bad: the devastation has been significant. In some cases the devastation has been total," Secretary to the Cabinet Rene Almendras told a news conference.
Mr Gordon said roads had now been cleared to allow relief workers to get to some of the hardest hit areas, but that they expected to find many more casualties.
"It's only now that they were able to get in and we're beginning just to bring in the necessary food items... as well as water and other things that they need."
Forecasters predicted a tropical depression would move into the south and central Philippines on Tuesday, potentially bringing heavy rains that would further hamper relief efforts.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























Aerial footage shows devastation in Tanauan, Tacloban and Cebu



 Jane Cocking, the humanitarian director for Oxfam, said her colleagues witnessed "complete devastation... entire parts of the coastline just disappeared, and sizable trees just bent over and [were] thrown about like matchsticks."
A Philippine military spokesman was quoted as saying on Monday that 942 people had died in the typhoon's aftermath, though it is clear the official death toll will rise significantly.
Almost 630,000 people have been reported displaced.


Three days after Typhoon Haiyan hit, aerial photos are revealing a scene of apocalyptic devastation along a swathe of the central Philippines. 



Among the hardest hit places was the city of Tacloban, where the ferocity of the storm waves swept this ship ashore. 



A 21-year-old woman  lies exhausted on the debris-covered floor at a makeshift medical facility in Tacloban after giving birth to a baby girl. The storm surge swept away her mother.  



In Manila, Philippine and US military personnel load relief goods for Tacloban. International rescue teams are heading for the area.



The typhoon - now downgraded to a tropical storm - has reached Vietnam, where hundreds of thousands of people have been evacuated.

'Unprecedented' storm
Some are questioning what more authorities could have done to prepare for this, just the latest in a string of disasters to hit the nation of more than 7,000 islands.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
The world has not seen a storm like this before”
End Quote
Senen Mangalile
Philippines Consul General to the UK

 Your pictures: Devastation
 UK aid for victims

 Authorities had evacuated hundreds of thousands of people before the typhoon arrived, but many evacuation centres - schools, churches and government buildings - proved unable to withstand the winds and storm surges.
Many survivors in stricken areas heeded official urgings to stockpile supplies - but found that they were washed away along with the rest of their possessions.
Haiyan brought sustained winds of 235km/h (147mph), with gusts of 275 km/h (170 mph), with waves as high as 15m (45ft), bringing up to 400mm (15.75 inches) of rain in places.
"The world has not seen a storm like this before," said Senen Mangalile, the Philippines Consul General to the UK.
Steven Godby, a disaster management expert at Nottingham Trent University, told the BBC the typhoon was "probably the most intense and strongest storm of this type to make landfall". 

Continue reading the main story International aid



 Australia: Aus$10m ($9.4m; £5.8m), including medical personnel 
 China: $200,000 (£125,000)
 European Commission: 3m euros (£2.5m; $4m)
 Indonesia: Aircraft, personnel, drinking water, food, generators, medicine
 Japan: 25 emergency medical personnel
 New Zealand: NZ$2.15m (£1.1m)
 Taiwan: $200,000
 UK: £6m ($9.6m) non-food aid package
 UN World Food Programme: an initial $2m
 US: 90 marines and sailors; emergency food, water, shelter and hygiene materials
 Vietnam: $100,000 
 This list is not comprehensive

 "We've seen storms like this perhaps on rare occasions that have had that kind of intensity out at sea but for it to come ashore with that kind of strength is almost unprecedented," Dr Godby said.
Officials said looting was widespread and order was proving difficult to enforce, but correspondents say many ordinary people are simply scavenging for the food and water needed to survive.
Hundreds of soldiers have been deployed to try to restore order in Tacloban, but one resident told AFP that people were becoming violent out of desperation.
"I am afraid that in one week, people will be killing from hunger," secondary school teacher Andrew Pomeda, 36, said on Sunday.
Philippine President Benigno Aquino said there was a possibility that martial law or a state of emergency would be declared in the city.
In some areas, the dead are being buried in mass graves.
American military aircraft and ships are being deployed to provide help. Aid is being flown into the only regional international airport at Cebu, with relief efforts focusing on Tacloban. 

Continue reading the main story Deadly typhoons



 Sept 1937 Hong Kong typhoon - 11,000 dead
 Sept 1959 Typhoon Vera - deadliest to hit Japan, killing 5,238 people
 Aug 1975 Typhoon Nina - about 229,000 die in China after collapse of Banqiao dam
 Nov 1991 Typhoon Thelma - deadliest in the Philippines to date, killing 5-8,000


 US President Barack Obama has issued a message saying he was "deeply saddened by the loss of life and extensive damage".
Other countries have also pledged millions of dollars in assistance. Australia has approved $9m in humanitarian aid to the Philippines, while New Zealand has pledged over $1m.
Kristalina Georgieva, the EU humanitarian aid commissioner, said relief efforts would be guided by three priorities: to establish access, then offer immediate aid, then shelter.
Typhoon Haiyan has now made landfall in Vietnam, near the tourist destination of Ha Long Bay, with sustained winds of up to 140 km/h (85mph).
Some 600,000 people were evacuated in northern provinces of the country.




Are you in the Philippines? Have you been affected by the typhoon? Send us your comment using the form below.

Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk  or text them to 61124 (UK) or +44 7624 800 100 (International). If you have a large file you can upload here.
Read the terms and conditions






(Required)  Name




(Required)  Your E-mail address




(Required)  Town & Country




(Required)  Your telephone number






(Required)  Comments





If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions
Send
Clear






More on This Story


Typhoon Haiyan
	      






A smiling mask

Learning  how to hide pain one year on from Typhoon Haiyan




Tour a street




Before and after




Mapping Haiyan




Satellite images




Philippines thanks world




Tacloban: Devastated city




Hunger in Tacloban




Images from Panay Island




Q&A: Aid delays




Health challenge




Struggle to survive




Co-ordination vital




Survivors' stories




Aid in numbers







Video



Aerial tour of Tacloban Watch

Drone camera footage of how Tacloban, the city worst affected by Typhoon Haiyan, is recovering.




Aid ship arrives in Philippines Watch




Fuel queues Watch




Inside aid centre Watch




Satellite images help aid effort Watch




School now 'home' Watch




Survivors' appeal Watch


















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Asia stories
RSS




Sri Lanka leader faces crucial poll

Sri Lankan leader Mahinda Rajapaksa faces an unexpected battle to hold on to power, as millions begin voting in a tightly fought election.



Sony Pictures hackers 'got sloppy'




Tail of crashed AirAsia plane found












Top Stories



Manhunt for French magazine gunmen


Charlie Hebdo attack - latest Live


Tesco joins supermarket price war


'Game-changing' antibiotic find


Parents 'quit work over care costs'









Features




Monster of the sea

The world's biggest ship - for 53 days 	
				  




'I love you' Watch

How a dog helped an autistic boy open up  	
				  




'So much pain'

The animals killed and maimed in Australia's bushfires 	
				  




America, really?  Watch

What baffles foreigners about the American way 	
				  




Tables turned 

The fiery US lawyer in an unwanted spotlight 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Massacre at French magazine office



2: 'Game-changing' antibiotic find



3: The recurring Facebook privacy hoax



4: Why hasn't Japan banned child-porn comics?



5: Dumped dog's belongings in suitcase



Read




1: 
    Charlie Hebdo attack - latest  



2: 
    Tesco joins price war as supermarket plots recovery course  



3: 
    Charlie Hebdo: Major manhunt for Paris gunmen  



4: 
    Antibiotics: US discovery labelled 'game-changer' for medicine  



5: 
    Cargo ship: Stricken Solent vessel 'held' overnight off Isle of Wight  



6: 
    Sony Pictures hackers 'got sloppy', FBI says  



7: 
    Parents 'consider quitting work over childcare costs'  



8: 
    More Bill Cosby accusers come forward  



9: 
    Why hasn't Japan banned child-porn comics?  



10: 
    Charlie Hebdo attack: the response in pictures  




Video/Audio




1: "Americans, this is pointless" Watch



3: Paris gunfire caught on video Watch



4: Rooftop video of Paris shooting Watch



5: Massacre at French magazine office Watch



6: What baffles the world about the British?  Watch



7: Video shows gunmen fleeing attack Watch



8: Officer accidentally shoots himself Watch



9: Farmer forced to cull 'Nazi' cattle Watch



10: 'As a Muslim I am shocked' Watch































Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       Copyright © 2015 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  




































    













