Devastating earthquake kills 1,500 in Nepal as it braces for darkest night in 80 years
Devastating earthquake kills 1,500 in Nepal as it braces for darkest night in 80 years










Skip to main content




 












 





ePaper

 




 

 
 






 




Wednesday, May 20, 2015 | Last Update : 02:39 AM IST 

 






Search form

Search 





 




PrayersPrayersHijri CalendarRajjab 29,1436 AHPrayersFajar: 4.35 amZohar: 12.22 pmAsar: 4.44pmMaghrib: 6.47pmIsha: 8.02 pmSunset today 6.42 pmsunrise tomorrow 5.43 amMoonrise tomorrow 6.41 amMoonset today 7.56 pm 





Log In
Username *



Password *


Create new accountRequest new password

 

 





TRENDING TOPICS:#Rahul Gandhi#Telangana#Jayalalithaa#Narendra Modi#China#IPL 8 

 
 






Main menu

HomeNationCrimeCurrent AffairsPoliticsInterviewsEducationworldNEIGHBOURSASIAAFRICAAMERICASEUROPEMIDDLE EASTSouthTelanganaAndhra PradeshTamil NaduKarnatakaKeralaEntertainmentBollywoodHollywoodKollywoodMollywoodSandalwoodTollywoodTV/MusicMovie ReviewsSportsCricketFootballTennisMotor SportsOther SportsBusinessAUTOSCOMPANIESECONOMICSLATESTMARKETCorporate NewsOpinionTechnologyGADGETSLATESTMOBILES AND TABSSCIENCE and TRENDSLifestyleHealth & WellbeingRelationshipsFashion/BeautyFoodTravelAstroguideBooks/ArtPets/EnvironmentOffbeatGalleryMatrimonial 

 












You are hereHome » Nation » Current AffairsDevastating earthquake kills 1,500 in Nepal as it braces for darkest night in 80 years

AP |   May 12, 2015, 13.05 pm IST











Share











Tweet











Printer-friendly version

Send by email





		Rescue workers remove debris at Durbar Square after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal (Photo: AP)	
 Kathmandu, Nepal: A powerful earthquake struck Nepal Saturday, killing over 1,500 people across a swath of four countries as the violently shaking earth collapsed houses, leveled centuries-old temples and triggered avalanches on Mt. Everest. It was the worst tremor to hit the South Asian nation in over 80 years.At least 1,500 people were confirmed dead in Nepal, according to the police. Another 34 were killed in India, five in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border. Given the scale of the destruction, the death toll is almost certain to rise, said Home Ministry official Laxmi Dhakal.It was a few minutes before noon when the quake, with a preliminary magnitude of 7.8, began to rumble across the densely populated Kathmandu Valley, rippling through the capital Kathmandu and spreading in all directions -- north toward the Himalayas and Tibet, south to the Indo-Gangetic plains, east toward the Brahmaputra delta of Bangladesh and west toward the historical city of Lahore in Pakistan. Dozens of people with injuries were being brought to the main hospital in central Kathmandu.Read: Powerful earthquake strikes Nepal: Things to knowA magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Towers collapsed and clouds of dust began to swirl all around.Within hours, hospitals began to fill up with dozens of injured people. Many came to the main hospital in central Kathmandu. Among them was Pushpa Das, a laborer, ran from the house when the first quake struck but could not escape a collapsing wall that injured his arm."It was very scary. The earth was moving... I am waiting for treatment but the (hospital) staff is overwhelmed," he said, gingerly holding his right arm with his left hand. As he spoke dozens of more people showed up with injuries, mostly from falling bricks.Read: Tremors in coastal Andhra Pradesh after powerful quake hits Nepal and IndiaThe earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Following the quake, Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.While the extent of the damage and the scale of the disaster are yet to be ascertained, the quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of this poor country best known for Mt Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, is heavily dependent on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.A senior mountaineering guide, Ang Tshering, said an avalanche swept the face of Mt. Everest after the earthquake, and government officials said 10 bodies have so far been recovered while several are still missing or injured.Tshering of the Nepal Mountaineering Association said the avalanche occurred between the Khumbu Icefall, a rugged area of collapsed ice and snow, and the base camp where most climbing expeditions have their main camps.Read: Nepal's pain is our pain, says Narendra Modi after massive earthquake batters KathmanduCarsten Lillelund Pedersen, a Dane who is climbing the Everest with a Belgian climber Jelle Veyt, said on his Facebook page that they were at Khumbu Icefall, a rugged area of collapsed ice and snow close to base camp at altitude 5,000 meters (16,500 feet) when the earthquake hit.He wrote on his Facebook that they have started to receive the injured, including one person with the most severe injuries who sustained many fractures."He was blown away by the avalanche and broke both legs. For the camps closer to where the avalanche hit, our Sherpas believe that a lot of people may have been buried in their tents," he wrote in English."There is now a steady flow of people fleeing basecamp in hope of more security further down the mountain."The quake's epicenter was 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu, and it had a depth of only 11 kilometers (7 miles), which is considered shallow in geological terms. The shallower the quake the more destructive power it carries, and witnesses said the trembling and swaying of the earth went on for several minutes.Read: BSNL to charge local rates for calls to Nepal for 3 daysAs the quake began to intensify, residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Clouds of dust began to swirl around them. Large cracks opened up on streets and walls.Several buildings collapsed in the center of the capital, the ancient Old Kathmandu, including centuries-old temples and towers, said resident Prachanda Sual.Among them was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu's landmarks built by Nepal's royal rulers as a watchtower in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.Hundreds of people buy tickets on weekends to go up to the viewing platform on the eighth story.Video footage showed people digging through the rubble of the bricks form the collapsed tower, looking for survivors.The Kathmandu Valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million people, and the quality of buildings is often poor.Read: ‘Please stay safe,’ sporting world prays after 7.9-magnitude earthquake hits NepalIn Kathmandu, dozens of people were gathered in the parking lot of Norvic International Hospital, where thin mattresses were spread on the ground for patients rushed outside, some wearing hospital pajamas. A woman with a bandage on her head sat in a set of chairs pulled from the hospital waiting room.Doctors and nurses hooked up some patients to IV drops in the parking lot, or were giving people oxygen.The U.S. Geological Survey revised the magnitude from 7.5 to 7.9 but then lowered it to 7.8. It said the quake hit at 11:56 a.m. local time (0611 GMT) at Lamjung. It was the largest shallow quake since the 8.2 temblor off the coast of Chile on April 1, 2014.The quake - with the same magnitude as the one that hit San Francisco in 1906 - was about 16 times more powerful than the 7.0 quake that devastated Haiti in 2010.A magnitude 7 quake is capable of widespread and heavy damage while an 8 magnitude quake can cause tremendous damage.Read: Historic Dharara Tower collapses in Kathmandu after 7.9 earthquakeA Swedish woman, Jenny Adhikari, who lives in Nepal, told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet that she was riding a bus in the town of Melamchi when the earth began to move."A huge stone crashed only about 20 meters (yards) from the bus," she was quoted as saying. "All the houses around me have tumbled down. I think there are lot of people who have died," she told the newspaper by telephone. Melamchi is about 45 kilometers (30 miles) northeast of Kathmandu.Residents reported seeing trails of destruction -collapsed walls, broken windows and fallen telephone poles - as they drove through the capital, along with streets filled with terrified people.But scattered reports also indicated that most buildings in the capital did not collapse."It's too early to make any assessment but the damage isn't as bad as it could have been," said Liz Satow, the Nepal director for the air group World Vision. She said she drove from Kathmandu to the nearby town of Lalitpur and said that while there was considerable damage, most buildings were still intact.Nepal suffered its worst recorded earthquake in 1934, which measured 8.0 and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.The sustained quake also was felt in New Delhi and several other cities.Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a meeting of top government officials to review the damage and disaster preparedness in parts of India that felt strong tremors. The Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Sikkim, which share a border with Nepal, have reported building damage. There have also been reports of damage in the northeastern state of Assam.Read: Massive quake in Nepal shakes India: 5 dead, mild tremors felt across countryPakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif offered "all possible help" that Nepal may need.A Swedish woman, Jenny Adhikari, who lives in Nepal, told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet that she was riding a bus in the town of Melamchi when the earth began to move."A huge stone crashed only about 20 meters (yards) from the bus," she was quoted as saying. "All the houses around me have tumbled down. I think there are lot of people who have died," she told the newspaper by telephone. Melamchi is about 45 kilometers (30 miles) northeast of Kathmandu.Nepal suffered its worst recorded earthquake in 1934, which measured 8.0 and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan. Pages12next ›last »Tags: Nepal earthquakeKathmanduNarendra ModiWorld 
Nepal Earthquake: Indian Air Force rescues mountaineers 




Loading... Please Wait
 









 

1/41New Delhi: Relief material is loaded into an Indian Air Force aircraft headed to Nepal (Photo: PTI)






 

2/41A man approaches the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepa. An avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake in Nepal smashed into a base camp between the Khumbu Icefall, a notoriously treacherous rugged area of collapsed ice and snow, and the base camp where most climbing expeditions are, said Ang Tshering of the Nepal Mountaineering Association (Photo: AP)






 

3/41People approach the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal (Photo: AP)






 

4/41Nightfall after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal (Photo: AP)






 

5/41The scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp (Photo: AP)






 

6/41Tents are seen set up for climbers on the Khumbu Glacier, with Mount Khumbutse, center, and Khumbu Icefall, right, seen in background, at Everest Base Camp in Nepal. (Photo: AP)






 

7/41Climbers and guides carry an injured after an avalanche struck Everest Base Camp in Nepal (Photo: AP)






 

8/41People try to lift the debris from a temple at Hanumandhoka Durbar Square after an earthquake in Kathmandu, capital of Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley before noon Saturday, causing extensive damage with toppled walls and collapsed buildings, officials said. (Photo: AP)






 

9/41People gather beside damaged buildings after an earthquake in Kathmandu, capital of Nepal, Saturday, April 25, 2015. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley (Photo: AP)






 

10/41Laxmi Shristha, Marium Chhetri, left to right, Gayatri Sharma, Talence Dhakal and his mother, Karuna Dhakal, take part in a prayer service for victims of the Nepal earthquake Saturday, April 25, 2015 at International Nepali Church in Irving, Texas (Photo: AP)






 

11/41Sabnam Shmesth, right, is overcome with emotion as she takes part in a prayer service for victims of the Nepal earthquake Saturday, April 25, 2015 at International Nepali Church in Irving, Texas. (Photo: AP)






 

12/41A powerful earthquake struck Nepal Saturday, killing at least 686 people, as the violently shaking earth collapsed houses, leveled centuries-old temples and triggered avalanches in the Himalayas. It was the worst temblor to hit the nation in over 80 years. This is before and after pictures of the historic Durbar Square in Nepal. Photo: AP/PTI






 

13/41One hundred and eighty one people have died in Kathmandu, the Nepal government has said. Thirty people have died so far in neighbouring countries, over 20 in India.






 

14/41The quake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.9 struck before noon and was most severely felt in the capital as well as the densely populated Kathmandu Valley. 






 

15/41A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to ripple through the region for hours.






 

16/41Deaths have been reported from all parts of Nepal except the far west. All security personnel have been deploywed to rescue and assist those in need, national police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam told AFP.






 

17/41An official from Nepal's mountaineering department said bodies of eight people have been recovered on Mount Everst after the massive earthquake triggered an avalanche. Gyanendra Shretha said an unknown number of people remain missing or injured.






 

18/41Earlier the country's Home Ministry had said one Chinese citizen was killed on the border, two in Bangladesh and six in Tibet in the quake. Dozens of people with injuries were being brought to the main hospital in central Kathmandu.






 

19/41Pushpa Das, a labourer, ran from the house when the first quake struck but could not escape a collapsing wall that injured his arm. "It was very scary. The earth was moving... I am waiting for treatment but the (hospital) staff is overwhelmed," he said, gingerly holding his right arm with his left hand. 






 

20/41The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh.






 

21/41Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a meeting of top government officials to review the damage and disaster preparedness in parts of India that felt strong tremors. 






 

22/41The states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Sikkim, which share a border with Nepal, have reported building damage. There have also been reports of damage in the northeastern state of Assam.






 

23/41China said two of its citizen was killed at the Nepal-China border. Television reports from Bangladesh said 2 people were killed and about 100 injured. The Tibetan government said six people were killed in Tibet.






 

24/41A senior mountaineering guide, Ang Tshering, said an avalanche swept the face of Mt. Everest after the earthquake, and government officials said at least 30 people were injured.






 

25/41Tshering of the Nepal Mountaineering Association said the avalanche apparently occurred between the Khumbu Icefall, a rugged area of collapsed ice and snow, and the base camp where most climbing expeditions have their main camps. (backslash)






 

26/41While details are unclear with communications limited to the Everest region, Tshering said the avalanche did not appear to have hit the base camp itself.






 

27/41The quake's epicenter was 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu, and it had a depth of only 11 kilometers (7 miles), which is considered shallow in geological terms. The shallower the quake the more destructive power it carries.






 

28/41As the ground began to shake, several buildings collapsed in the center of the capital, the ancient Old Kathmandu, including centuries-old temples and towers, said resident Prachanda Sual.






 

29/41Among them was the Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu's landmarks built by Nepal's royal rulers in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.






 

30/41The Kathmandu Valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million people, and the quality of buildings is often poor.






 

31/41While the extent of the damage and the scale of the disaster are yet to be ascertained, the quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of this poor country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. 






 

32/41The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, is heavily dependent on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.






 

33/41Robin Trygg, a climber, was in a basecamp on the Cho Oyu mountain at an altitude of 5,600 meters (18,480 feet) when he felt the quake. "We were sitting in the tent and drinking tea when all of a sudden the earth began shaking. We didn't understand what happened," he told the Swedish news agency TT by telephone.






 

34/41In Kathmandu, dozens of people were gathered in the parking lot of Norvic International Hospital, where thin mattresses were spread on the ground for patients rushed outside, some wearing hospital pajamas.






 

35/41The U.S. Geological Survey revised the magnitude from 7.5 to 7.9 and said the quake hit at 11:56 a.m. local time (0611 GMT) at Lamjung. It was the largest shallow quake since the 8.2 temblor off the coast of Chile on April 1, 2014.






 

36/41An earthquake's power increases by 10 times with each increase in the number of its scale. A magnitude 7 quake is capable of widespread and heavy damage while an 8 magnitude quake can cause tremendous damage.






 

37/41People rest on the debri at the royal square. It housed the old royal palaces and was a recognised as a UNESCO world heritage site. 






 

38/41A rescue worker attempts to remove the debris at a site to retrieve a dead body.  






 

39/41Rescue workers look for trapped victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu.  






 

40/41volunteers work to remove the debris at  the site of the historic Dharahara tower, which collapsed after the earthquake. 






 

41/41An injured child receives medical attention outside a hospital at Kathmandu. The hospitals have reached capacity and tratment is being offered at the yards. 



 
 












Also Read
US senator John McCain congratulates Modi on electoral success


Hong Kong police clear protesters from government buildings


In rural areas, people vote for Narendra Modi not BJP


Fresh 72-hour truce begins in Gaza

 

Comments

3









 

     by RENNY WHITEHEAD (not verified) on Sat, 2015-04-25 12:10 

Over a minute? The tremors lasted for about 5 minutes in Delhi!! 
reply









 

     by madhur (not verified) on Sat, 2015-04-25 12:16 

i felt it at jaipur..dam n it how can i fill it with minimum 30 characters oooh i just did 
reply









 

     by karan veer raj (not verified) on Sat, 2015-04-25 19:25 

OMG....I felt it at patna ..... oh shit I was shocked that time ......  
reply


Pages12next ›last »

Write a comment

Your name 



Your Comment (Minimum 30 Characters) *




CAPTCHAThis question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.






 


 

 





 




 





 




 



































Bride
Groom






18 - 24
25 - 30
31 - 35
36 - 40
41+













 



Latest news




  
 ‘I hope I get to do a Piku once in my career’ 
  Rakul Preet Singh talks about her upcoming films, friends in Tollywood
   

  
 ‘Sourav can justify any role’ says Dona Ganguly 
  ‘There is no such appointment at the moment’ - BCCI secretary Anurag Thakur
   

  
 1,850 killed in Yemen since March, says UN 
  As of May 15, 1,849 people had been killed and 7,394 had been injured
   


More 
 




 




 




 




 










 




 

 
 







 

 
 








Sections

Nation
Entertainment
Sports
Lifestyle
Commentary
Galleries
 



Channels

Politics
Sport
Lifestyle
Showbiz
 



Specials


DC 50
Astroguide
Investor's Desk
Classifieds
 



MOBILE APPS


Android
Blackberry
IphoneIpad
Windows
 



Follow us

Facebook
Twitter
 







 






Home
Asian Age
Andhrabhoomi
Financial Chronicle
About Us
Book Classifieds
Contact Us
Feedback
E-Paper
 

 





      Copyright © 2015 Deccan Chronicle. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Deccan Chronicle Service    











 
 
  





