Earthquakes without Frontiers Nepal earthquake: likely areas of landsliding - Earthquakes without Frontiers 
Earthquakes without Frontiers Nepal earthquake: likely areas of landsliding - Earthquakes without Frontiers







 



— Main Menu —Home
About Us
Projects
Blog
Events
Publications
Contact
Home
About Us
Projects
Blog
Events
Publications
Contact
 

 
 

Blog Post25APR2015Nepal earthquake: likely areas of landslidingPosted By : Earthquakes without FrontiersComments : 1UPDATED 26 April 2015 to reflect new USGS ShakeMap results; this has resulted to some changes in the landslide susceptibility pattern in Tom Robinson’s model
The Mw 7.9 Nepal earthquake on 25 April 2015 appears to have occurred on a shallowly north-dipping thrust fault beneath the Himalayas of central Nepal. The steep topography and high relief in the area of the epicentre, and the high intensity of shaking that was felt, mean that thousands of landslides are likely to have been triggered by the earthquake. Based on past experience of earthquakes in steep mountainous terrain, like the 2005 Kashmir and 2008 Wenchuan earthquakes, some of these landslides will be large enough to create temporary dams across rivers in the area. The lakes created by these dams are particularly hazardous because they can drain without warning, usually within a few days of filling up, due to collapse of the unstable dam material.
Mapping the landslides will require satellite imagery taken after the earthquake. In the meantime, it’s useful to see what areas are likely to have been most affected by landsliding. The images below show the outputs of two different models of landslide susceptibility – that is, the probably that a landslide will have occurred in any particular place. Susceptibility in these models is determined by the intensity of the shaking (derived from the USGS ShakeMap estimates, http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/eventpage/us20002926#impact_shakemap), the steepness of the topography, the position of a given location on a hillside (because shaking tends to be greater at the tops of ridges than in neighbouring valleys), and the aspect (the direction in which the hillside faces).
The first map was produced by Dr Tom Robinson of the University of Canterbury, New Zealand (http://www.geol.canterbury.ac.nz/People/students/Tom_Robinson.shtml), using a model that he developed with Dr Theo Kritikos and Prof Tim Davies. More details about the model are available at http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2014JF003224/abstract.






Preliminary landslide susceptibility map created by Dr Tom Robinson (University of Canterbury). Susceptibility ranges from 0 to 1; higher numbers indicate a greater chance of landslides occurring at that point. Inset map shows the estimated earthquake intensities from the USGS ShakeMap. The Modified Mercalli Intensity values are VII in the epicentral area but up to VIII or IX in the Kathmandu Valley.



 
The map shows that high landslide susceptibility values – and thus the greatest chance of landsliding – occur in the high Himalayas to the north of the epicentre and Kathmandu. This includes the major river valleys of central Nepal, including the Kali Gandaki, Marsyandi, and Trisuli Rivers, as well as parts of the Sun Kosi River catchment. These areas also have high relief between valley floors and ridge crests, meaning that landslides there are potentially large enough to block the valleys. There are also high values in the foothills south of Kathmandu. While relief in the foothills is somewhat smaller (up to about 1000 m), this area also includes the major roads from India and southern Nepal into the Kathmandu Valley. We have heard from colleagues at NSET that travel between Bharatpur (south of the epicentre) and Kathmandu is still very difficult, which would be consistent with these susceptibility patterns.
The second map was produced by Dr Rob Parker of Cardiff University (http://www.cardiff.ac.uk/earth/research-staff/dr-robert-parker/). It shows estimated landslide probability, where values closer to 1 indicate a greater likelihood that a landslide occurred at that location.






Preliminary landslide susceptibility map created by Dr Rob Parker (Cardiff University). Probability values show the chance of a landslide occurring at that point. Inset map shows the estimated earthquake intensities from the USGS ShakeMap. The Modified Mercalli Intensity values are VII in the epicentral area but up to VIII or IX in the Kathmandu Valley.



 
Again, the maps shows that landslides are most likely to have occurred north of the epicentral area and extends from about 84.5°E to 86.5°E. Landslides are also expected in the foothills, particularly north of the Chitwan Dun (the trapezoidal-shaped area of low elevation, to the south of the epicentre). Rob’s model estimates that the total area of landslides in that region is about 30 km2 (for individual failures larger than 1 ha or 10,000 m2). While that seems large, it is much smaller than area of landslides in the Mw 7.9 Wenchuan earthquake in China, which was about 396 km2 as mapped by Gen Li and colleagues (http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2013GC005067/full). This may be due to the fairly moderate intensity values of VII or less over most of the region between the epicentre and the Kathmandu Valley. Kathmandu itself seems to have experienced much greater intensities of VIII or IX – probably because seismic waves were amplified by the soft sediment fill within the valley. Despite this intense shaking, the risk from landslides within Kathmandu is small except on the edges of the valley itself.
It must be stressed that these are preliminary estimates, and that they are based on very generalised models. In particular, they depend heavily on the intensity estimates from ShakeMap, which are very uncertain, and will be refined over the next few days and weeks. As of this writing, there have been almost no reports of shaking or damage from the epicentral area, so the peak intensities are definitely underestimated by ShakeMap at the moment. As those increase, so too will the probability of landslides. The susceptibility maps also don’t tell us anything about the likely sizes of the landslides that have occurred, and whether or not they have blocked roads or river valleys. Nevertheless, they provide some ideas about where the hardest-hit areas of Nepal might be, and give us a way of focusing our attention and efforts in understanding the effects of the earthquake.
About the AuthorSocial Share 




















































	One Comment	




 


Carolyn
April 27, 2015
 at 12:14 am

Reply 

Fantastic work you’re doing here, EwB.









Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Name *
Email *
Website




Anti-Spam
*


 

 

 
  Recent Posts 

Nepal: update on landslide hazard following 12 May 2015 earthquake
May 12, 2015


Landslides in the Nepal earthquake: preliminary guidelines for relief and response activities from 28 April in Nepali – नेपालमा भूकम्प र भूकम्पजनित पहिरो : राहत र प्रतिकार्य गतिविधिका लागि तयार गरिएको प्रारम्भिक निर्देशिका
May 10, 2015


Nepal earthquake: update on landslide hazard (8 May)
May 8, 2015


Nepal earthquake: update on landslide hazard
May 5, 2015


Building rural resilience to earthquakes
April 29, 2015


Archive Archive

Select Month
 May 2015 
 April 2015 
 December 2014 
 September 2014 
 June 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 December 2013 
 October 2013 
 July 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 

CategoriesCategories
Select Category
blog
conference
earthquakes
landslides
policy
resilience
Uncategorized


Tagsactive Fault
Almaty
CBDRR
China
Citizen science
earthquake
EwF
fault
featured
hazard
InSAR
Iran
job opportunity
Kazakhstan
landslide
landslide dams
landslides
Nepal
Nepal earthquake
New Zealand
Ordos
Pakistan
palaeo-earthquake. Mongolia
Remote sensing
report
Social media
 
 
 
 






Latest Blog Posts 


 
								Resilience in China: EwF in Sichuan Province 
							



								December 01, 2014							








 
								New satellite maps out Napa Valley earthquake 
							



								September 02, 2014							







 
								Earthquake-triggered landslides: what do we need to know? 
							



								September 02, 2014							




Latest TweetsRT @NepalDRR: The latest Situation Report of #NepalQuake now available: http://t.co/2X6xgmTrwH @UN_Nepal @OCHAAsiaPac 22 hours agoRT @AGU_Eos: Landslides in Nepal and the impact of the SW Monsoon
http://t.co/oLuZuETz0i @davepetley #AGUblogs http://t.co/skPSH9RM7A 22 hours agoBuilding a new Nepal: why the world must heed the lessons of Haiti | Prospery Raymond http://t.co/paCJiSMB6d 4 days ago 
 







							Earthquakes without Frontiers is supported by the Natural Evironment Research Council (NERC) and the Economic and Social Research Council
(ESRC) through the Increasing Resilience to Natural Hazards (IRNH) programme. © Copyright EwF 2013
						







 
 
 














