CSU responds to Charleston shooting
CSU responds to Charleston shooting













About Us

Affiliations
Biblical Core Values
Board of Trustees
Campus Map
Distinctives
University Relations
Whitfield Center for Christian Leadership
History
Mission, Vision and Goals
President Jairy C. Hunter
Quick Facts
Senior Officers
Statement of Purpose


Academics

Academic Calendar
Academic Catalog
Bridge Program
Certificate Programs
Graduate School
L. Mendel Rivers Library
Online Programs
Registrar's Office
Schools and Colleges
Undergraduate Programs
ROTC Program


Admissions

Apply Online
Campus Map
Campus Visit
CSU Viewbook
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition
Financial Aid Calculator
Enrollment Counselors
International Students
Veterans Services


Student Life

Bookstore
Campus Ministries
Campus Security
Career Center
Chapel
Charleston, S.C.
Civic Engagement
Dining Hall
Residence Life
Clubs and Organizations
Recreational Services


Online Degree Programs

Bachelor of Science in Organizational Management
Bachelor of Technology
Certification Programs
Master of Arts in Organizational Leadership
Master of Arts in Christian Studies
Master of Business Administration
Master of Science in Criminal Justice
Master of Science in Organizational Management
Master of Science in Nursing
RN-BSN


Giving

Give Now
Giving Opportunities
Board of Visitors
Transform Campaign
Legacy Society
How to Give
Ways to Give


Athletics









Search



Charleston Southern University / Charleston Southern University News / CSU responds to Charleston shooting
               






CSU responds to Charleston shooting
University Relations
The Charleston Southern University family’s thoughts and prayers go out to all the
                        individuals affected by the shooting last night at Emanuel AME Church.
“We are especially mourning the loss of Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, the mother of
                        rising sophomore Chris Singleton," said President Jairy C. Hunter Jr. "Chris is a member of our baseball team. The CSU family is praying for Chris and his
                        family during this painful time. CSU coaches and campus ministers are assisting the
                        Singleton family as they deal with this tragedy.”
Head coach Stuart Lake said the players and coaches are hurting and are praying for
                        Chris and his family. “Chris’s mother was just that parent that as a coach you are
                        proud to have as part of your program. What she brought to our team is immeasurable,”
                        said Lake.
Charleston Southern is planning a prayer vigil on Monday, June 22 at 11:30 a.m. in
                        the Whitfield Center for Christian Leadership on the campus.

Charleston Southern is a liberal arts university and is one of South Carolina’s largest
                           accredited, independent universities, enrolling 3,400 students. Recognized as one
                           of America’s Best Christian Colleges, the University’s vision is to be a Christian
                           university nationally recognized for integrating faith in learning, leading and serving.







Latest News
                     CSU mourns the loss of former mayor Berlin G. Myers07/09/15 - The university family is saddened at the loss of one of our cofounders, Berlin G... »Free Seminar for Technology Educators Offered at CSU07/06/15 - Technology educators are invited to Teach Tech, a free seminar, at Charleston So... »$25,000 grant to assist CSU’s Veteran Students06/25/15 - Representatives from Palmetto Warrior Connection and America's Warrior Partnersh... » 



CSU on Twitter
                     Tweets by @CSUNIV







Charleston Southern University (CSU) is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033: Telephone number 404-679-4500), to award bachelor’s and master’s level degrees.
A-Z Index | Bookstore | BucMail  | Faculty/Staff Email | Faculty/Staff Directory |  Wingate by Wyndham |  Contact |  Home


    


Charleston Southern University · 9200 University Boulevard · Charleston, S.C. 29406 | Phone: 843-863-7000 

Last Updated: 6/18/15






