Cynthia G. Hurd, Librarian, Among Those Killed in Charleston Shooting
Cynthia G. Hurd, Librarian, Among Those Killed in Charleston Shooting


News
Opinion
Tech
Reviews
Events
Webcasts
Job Zone
Newsletters
Social Media

Facebook
@LibraryJournal
@LJReviews
Google+
Tumblr
Flickr









July 9, 2015


Manage Your Account
Contact Us

Masthead
Contact the Reviews Editors
LJ Social Media
Advertising


Awards
Submissions

Architectural Questionnaire for Public Libraries
Architectural Questionnaire for Academic Libraries
News, Features, Feedback, etc.
Submitting Titles to the LJ Book Review


About

Diversity
Privacy Policy
Comment Policy
Terms of Use


 

Library JournalLibrary News, Reviews, and Views Loading ...












Latest Stories

Publishing & Industry News
Architecture, Buildings, & Facilities
ALA Conferences & Meetings
More Categories


Features

2015 Movers & Shakers
Librarian of the Year
Paralibrarian of the Year
Library of the Year
Best Small Library in America
Star Libraries
Year in Architecture
Placements and Salaries Survey


INFOdocket
Academic
Technology
Managing Libraries

Lead the Change
Budgets & Funding
Marketing
Library Services


Careers

People
Placements & Salaries
LIS Education
Job Zone


Reviews

Prepub Alert
Audio in Advance
Collection Development
Readers’ Advisory
What We’re Reading


Opinion

Columns

Backtalk
Self Publishing and Libraries by James LaRue
Peer to Peer Review by Various
From the Bell Tower by Steven Bell
Not Dead Yet by Cheryl LaGuardia
Leading from the Library by Steven Bell
The User Experience by Aaron Schmidt
Office Hours by MIchael Stephens
Blatant Berry by John N. Berry III, Editor-at-Large
Editorial


Blogs

Annoyed Librarian
INFOdocket by Gary Price
Digital Libraries by Roy Tennant
In the Bookroom




Subscribe to LJ

Subscribe to Library Hotline
LJ for iPad
Book Verdict
Subscribe to Email Newsletters


Awards
Lead the Change!
SLJ SummerTeen 2015
Webcasts

Technology
Library Services
Books
Media
Reference


SELF-e

SELF-e Submissions


You are here: Home / Industry News / Cynthia G. Hurd, Librarian, Among Those Killed in Charleston ShootingCynthia G. Hurd, Librarian, Among Those Killed in Charleston Shooting
By Lisa Peet on June 25, 2015 22 Comments 

(Editor’s Note: On June 25, Charleston city council voted unanimously to change the name of the the St. Andrews Regional Library to the Cynthia Graham Hurd St. Andrews Regional Library, according to The Post and Courier. “People will look up and see her name and remember her every day,” said her husband, Arthur Hurd.
See below for further updates.)

 
On the night of Wednesday, June 17, a gunman opened fire at a prayer meeting at Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston, SC; officials described the shooting as racially motivated. The suspect was apprehended Thursday morning in North Carolina, more than 200 miles away. Nine community members were killed, including Cynthia G. Hurd, manager of St. Andrews Regional Library branch at Charleston County Public Library (CCPL).
Hurd graduated from Clark Atlanta University and received her MLS from the University of South Carolina. She lived with her husband, Arthur Hurd, on Charleston’s east side. She would have turned 55 on June 21.
All 16 of CCPL’s locations were closed Thursday in mourning. The St. Andrews Regional Library and John L. Dart Library will also close Friday, June 19.
“Her loss is incomprehensible, and we ask for prayers for her family, her co-workers, her church and this entire community as we come together to face this tragic loss,” CCPL stated. “Cynthia was a tireless servant of the community who spent her life helping residents, making sure they had every opportunity for an education and personal growth.”
San Diego Public Library director Misty Jones told LJ, “I worked with her in Charleston and she was the person that said to me ‘Libraries are always inclusive, never exclusive.’ This is something that stuck with me and I use all the time when talking about library philosophy. I think it also sums up the type of person she was. A true public servant.”
A FRIEND TO THE COMMUNITY
Hurd worked with CCPL for 31 years. At the time of her death she served as manager of the St. Andrews Regional Library branch. From 1990–2011 she was manager of the John L. Dart branch, named after the founder of the Charleston Normal and Industrial School for local black children in 1894. Charleston’s first free public library for African Americans was established in 1927 by Dart’s daughter, Susan Dart Butler, and when the 75th anniversary of its founding was commemorated in 2012, Hurd worked on the planning committee. She was active in the community as well, serving on the Charleston City Housing Authority board of commissioners.
In addition to working full-time at CCPL, Hurd worked at the College of Charleston’s Addlestone Library as a part-time librarian since the 1990s—its longest-serving part-time librarian. A statement from the College said, “She was a protector and lover of books and a fountain of knowledge whose loss will be felt by our entire College community.”
Hurd was the sister of former North Carolina Sen. Malcolm Graham, who used to attend the church as a child. In a statement released Thursday, Graham said, “My sister, Ms. Cynthia Marie Graham-Hurd, was a victim of the senseless hate crime at Emanuel AME Church. It is unimaginable that she would walk into church and not return. But that’s who she was—a woman of faith.”
Graham spoke through tears at a conference, the Charlotte Observer reported, remembering his sister. “’She was a nerd,’ Graham said lovingly. ‘She was a librarian.’”
A fund has been established to help the families of the victims. Charleston Mayor Joe Riley announced the Mother Emanuel Hope Fund on Thursday, stating that the city had already pledged $5,000. The website is planned to be operational by Friday, June 19; the fund will also accept checks made out to “Mother Emanuel Hope Fund” at the following address:
Mother Emanuel Hope Fund
C/O City of Charleston
P.O. Box 304
Charleston, SC 29402

Updates:
In response to the tremendous outpouring of support from across the world and requests from individuals and businesses wanting to make donations in her memory, the Hurd family has established a fund at the library to continue her work. Funds donated to Charleston County Public Library will be set aside in her honor and used specifically to promote educational programming at the John L. Dart Branch Library and the St. Andrews Regional Library, both are branches that Hurd managed during her 31 years with CCPL.
Donations can be sent to:
Charleston County Public Library
c/o Cynthia Graham Hurd Memorial Fund
68 Calhoun Street
Charleston, S.C. 29401
On June 24 the College of Charleston board of trustees, citing Hurd’s long service to the college and her “quick wit, sense of humor and optimism,” designated one of its most prestigious academic scholarships for South Carolinians as the Cynthia Graham Hurd Memorial Scholarship.

 About Lisa PeetLisa Peet is Associate Editor, News for Library Journal.
Filed Under: Industry News Tagged With: Charleston County Public Library, Cynthia Hurd Discussion: View 22 Comments

Comments



 Douglas Henderson says: 

June 18, 2015 at 5:14 pm



The Charleston County Library and the community are devastated by this senseless act of violence. Cynthia Hurd epitomized what a librarian is. I am proud to have known and to have worked with her. Thank you for letting everyone know that she was a wonderful person.
Douglas Henderson
Executive Director
Charleston County Public Library


Reply 




 Cynthia Van Ness says: 

June 21, 2015 at 3:57 pm



Cynthia and I had the same first name, the same profession, and the exact same age.  I would like to contribute something in her name to the Charleston County Public Library.  Do you have a means for me and other librarians to do so?  I already donated via the AME church in my neighborhood to the Mother Emanuel fund.
Thanks!







 Meredith Schwartz says: 

June 24, 2015 at 9:30 am



Yes,  the family has established a fund at the library to continue her work.
Funds donated to Charleston County Public Library will be set aside in her honor and used specifically to promote educational programming at the John L. Dart Branch Library and the St. Andrews Regional Library, which Hurd managed. 
You can find out how to donate here:
http://www.ccpl.org/content.asp?id=147216&action=detail&catID=5367&parentID=5368









 Lindsay Davis says: 

June 18, 2015 at 5:38 pm



My heartfelt condolences to the families and community. Thinking of the CCPL system all the way from CA.


Reply 




 Marc Chery says: 

June 18, 2015 at 10:30 pm



My heart is broken.  To paraphrase the ancient West African saying about the traditional African living repositories of knowledge commonly known as griots, a fallen librarian is akin to a “walking library” that is no more. Our great new director at San Diego Public Library came to us a few years back from CCPL. Not surprised at all by the quality of CCPL librarians and the output of community love respectfully being lavished upon our dear colleague, departed too soon.


Reply 




 Deandra Garcia says: 

June 19, 2015 at 1:58 am



This breaks my heart to the core. There is no rest for the black community.  I wish there were peoplw for justice and equality in this world. The hate for blacks is astonishing.  What Have we ever done??? To be persecuted this way. I hope this low life piece of shit person that did this rots in hell forever. #backtoafrica #unrestuntilthereisjustice #wematter


Reply 




 Martha F. Barkley says: 

June 19, 2015 at 11:31 am



Doug Henderson,
Our hearts are in charleston during this terrible loss,
Martha and frank Barkley in Maine
We use Otranto and I often walk by Emauel on my way to downtown library…I am the Blair grad when you were at Wheaton…


Reply 




 Alexia says: 

June 19, 2015 at 12:54 pm



Happy birthday, Cynthia… You sounded like a really nice woman, and I’m glad that you were helping people and that you were a librarian. I hope she rests in peace, and that she has a smooth journey. Happy birthday, Cynthia, lots of hugs and love xxx


Reply 




 Angela Semifero says: 

June 19, 2015 at 10:55 pm



Every librarian I have ever met is in the profession for the same reason: We want to help people. People don’t usually stay in libraries for long if they are there for other reasons.
Cynthia Hurd worked for Charleston County Public Library for 31 years. I did not know her, but there is not a doubt in my mind that had the man who chose to commit this terrible act come in the library, Cynthia Hurd would have helped him. If he wanted to find something to support his views, she would have helped him find that. If he wanted a map of all the churches in town, she would have provided it. If he wanted a list of historic markers of Black History in the City, she would have found it. If he wanted a place to rest, the library would have given him that. I am not sure why my heart is so specifically broken over this event.
Perhaps it is because we all identify with different facets of each other: some granted to us, some socially constructed, some inherent, some chosen. For me, librarianship is all of those. My heart breaks for Cynthia Hurd’s family, her co-workers, her community members and her colleagues in the profession. My heart breaks for those she never got the chance to help. I am sorry her life of service was cut tragically short. Rest in peace, Cynthia


Reply 




 Catrina says: 

June 22, 2015 at 2:47 am



Thank you, so well said! We are all human, trying to live life as best we can, not harming others. Many, especially librarians and teachers, try to help all in the public equally. What could possibly be in that young man’s mind to hate black people and want to kill them?
I hope the families and friends of Cynthia Hurd and the other victims find peace one day, and I hope everyone in the United States can find ways to break this nonstop violence on our own people!









 Tanisha Mitchell says: 

June 19, 2015 at 11:18 pm



Librarians are lights in the community. My heart goes out to the family.


Reply 




 Gail Blanco says: 

June 20, 2015 at 8:59 pm



Angela Semifero, you expressed what I think all of us are feeling so beautifully. Our hearts are broken over this senseless act and the taking of such fine people. They probably all welcomed that man into their Bible study with open arms and then he took their lives. What a tragedy.


Reply 




 Iris says: 

June 22, 2015 at 3:14 am



I feel very sad for our country to lose someone who is so dedicated to God and her profession. I think we should educate people more about responsible gun ownership and that the freedom to take arms does not give the freedom to go and shoot people. The loss of so many lives is so tragic. My heart bleeds for them. I hope they can find peace and solace. Belated Happy Birthday Cynthia. I hope you watch over us in heaven. Please take care always.


Reply 




 Lillian Clark Edney says: 

June 22, 2015 at 4:43 pm



My heart goes out o the nine families of this devastating tragedy.  The young man has a family also.  I was so appreciative of the way the people of Charleston are coming together .I pray for peace for all.


Reply 




 Linda Brunner says: 

June 23, 2015 at 9:58 am



Tragic happening.  I sent blessings for all those affected.


Reply 




 Julia K says: 

June 23, 2015 at 3:21 pm



Mrs. Cynthia Hurd you will be miss by so many. You were a wonderful woman of God and someone I have found to be intelligent, beautiful, loving, caring and spectacular. I admire you so much for the life you have led to show young women of any race that we all can be successful and beautiful inside as well on the outside! RIP Mrs. Cynthia Hurd


Reply 




 Julia K says: 

June 23, 2015 at 3:28 pm



My heart goes out to The 9 Beautiful Heaven Sent human beings that lost their lives on that horrific night. My heart goes out to their families, friends, coworkers and their fellow church members. They will be missed so much. Each one of you did things meaningful with your lives and were so faithful and commited to God. We all love you! God loved you most. RIP


Reply 




 Diane R says: 

June 23, 2015 at 7:55 pm



From one librarian to another: Go with God, Cynthia.  May you organize heaven so well that the rest of us will have no trouble finding our places when we arrive~


Reply 




 Jewel Harris says: 

June 26, 2015 at 7:01 pm



As a retired library vendor and librarian, I am so saddened to hear of Mrs. Hurd’s tragic loss. May she rest in peace.


Reply 




 Margaret McClure says: 

June 26, 2015 at 8:15 pm



No one understands equal service to all as well as librarians. The world needs more people like Mrs. Hurd, who was taken in such a horrible manner. Her dedication to lifelong learning and education is to be admired. To have personally known you would be an honor. Bless her family and friends.


Reply 




 Natalie says: 

June 27, 2015 at 2:24 pm



My heart goes out to the friends, family, and community of Cynthia Hurd, and the city of Charleston. This is a tragic loss for the entire library community. May her beautiful legacy of service be an everlasting beacon of light to the world, and may she rest in peace. Our thoughts and prayers are with you.
-Natalie B., librarian in Denver, Colorado


Reply 




 Keith Q. Schenck says: 

June 29, 2015 at 11:28 pm



How many wings Cynthia provided for children, her family, and the whole literate community across the globe, this griot wtote her story across all of the pages of our healing hearts.
I had the honor of her memory forever etched into my dna and then also passed her photo to an adjunct english professor how prophetic during social justice forum in Philadelphia also organized by coalition for real justice #wearesocialmedia


Reply 

 
Comment Policy:

Be respectful, and do not attack the author or other commenters. Take on the idea, not the messenger.
Don't use obscene, profane, or vulgar language.
Stay on point. Comments that stray from the topic at hand may be deleted.
Comments may be republished in print, online, or other forms of media, per our Terms of Use.

We are not able to monitor every comment that comes through (though some comments with links to multiple URLs are held for spam-check moderation by the system). If you see something objectionable, please let us know. Once a comment has been flagged, a staff member will investigate.
We accept clean XHTML in comments, but don't overdo it and please limit the number of links submitted in your comment. For more info, see the full Terms of Use.


Speak Your Mind Cancel reply

Name *
Email *
Website

 

 

 



Recent & Popular
Recent  PostsMost CommentedMost ViewedStudents, Faculty Engage with Streaming Video | ALA Annual 2015 AKA “The Student Success Center” | From the Bell Tower OITP Hacks the Culture of Learning in the Library | ALA Annual 2015 Next Stop, Chicago | BookExpo America 2015 AZ Library Lockout Drives Deal, for Now West Virginia University Libraries to Create First Wikipedian-in-Residence to Focus on Gender Gap Skyhorse, Salon Join Forces on “Hot Books” | PubCrawl Cynthia G. Hurd, Librarian, Among Those Killed in Charleston Shooting Sudden Sweet Briar Closure Leaves Library in Limbo The Art of Weeding | Collection Management The Future of Academic Law Librarianship | Peer to Peer Review Librarian of Congress James Billington Announces Upcoming Retirement Academic Libraries Look Toward the Future | ALA Annual 2015 UX Par Excellence | Not Dead Yet Cynthia G. Hurd, Librarian, Among Those Killed in Charleston Shooting The Art of Weeding | Collection Management Sudden Sweet Briar Closure Leaves Library in Limbo St. Helena Library Director Dismissed in City Budget Cuts UPDATE: BPL's Lost Artwork Recovered Following Ryan's Resignation Sharing Policy Draws Criticism; Elsevier Responds The Future of Academic Law Librarianship | Peer to Peer Review 
 INFOdocket by Gary Price
Louisiana: “Library Director Says Literacy Can Lessen Prison Numbers”Subscription Services: “Macmillan Doubles Ebook Offerings on Scribd and Oyster”Oxford University’s Bodleian Libraries Launches Digital.Bodleian, A New “One-Stop” Online PortalWearables: “Can the Apple Watch Enhance Student Achievement”A New Guide From the Digital Curation Centre: “How to Track the Impact of Research Data with Metrics”Reference: U.S. Census “International Data Base” Updated With New Population Estimates and Projections
Advertisement



 


 


About Library Journal
Manage Your Account
Contact Us

Masthead
Contact the Reviews Editors
LJ Social Media
Advertising


Awards
Submissions

Architectural Questionnaire for Public Libraries
Architectural Questionnaire for Academic Libraries
News, Features, Feedback, etc.
Submitting Titles to the LJ Book Review


About

Diversity
Privacy Policy
Comment Policy
Terms of Use







On Twitter
Tweets by @LibraryJournal


On Facebook




LJ Resources
Awards
Lead the Change
Design Institute San Diego (Spring 2015)
Webcasts
Job Zone
Book Verdict
Newsletters
Subscribe

Top of PageCopyright Library Journal © 2015



















