Shooting Reported at Church in Downtown Charleston, South Carolina | FOX40 
Shooting Reported at Church in Downtown Charleston, South Carolina | FOX40






GoSearch







 Replay:  

FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

67°







67°


Low 59°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call Hate Crime

Posted 8:00 PM, June 17, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


CHARLESTON, South Carolina —
A white man walked into a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina, and opened fire during a Bible study class, killing nine people Wednesday evening.
The suspect was still at large early Thursday morning. And the shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, the oldest AME church in the South, is being investigated as a hate crime.
“The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate,” said Charleston Mayor Joe Riley.
Eight churchgoers died at the scene; a ninth at a hospital, police said.
Officials wouldn’t say how many people were at the prayer service during the shooting. There were survivors, said Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen, but he didn’t elaborate.
Historic significance
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church has been a presence in Charleton since 1816 when African-American members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church formed their own congregation after a dispute over burial grounds.
It was burned to the ground at one point, but rebuilt.
Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement.
The shooting was “obviously the most intolerable and unbelievable act possible,” the mayor said.
“People in prayer Wednesday evening. A ritual, a coming together, praying, worshiping God. An awful person come in and shoot them is inexplicable,” Riley said.
Police received the first call around 9:05 p.m. Officers arrived to find several victims inside.
“It’s really bad. It’s a very bad scene,” local pastor Thomas Dixon said.
Search on for suspect
Police said the suspect in the shooting is a clean-shaven white man in his 20s, with a slender build. He was wearing a gray sweatshirt, blue jeans and boots.
“He obviously is extremely dangerous,” Chief Mullen said. “We will put all our resources, we will put all of our energy in finding this individual.”
The department asked anyone with information to call 911 dispatchers.
“While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we’ll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another,” South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said.
Heavy police presence
“Like everybody out here, we’re sick to our stomachs that this could happen in a church,” Rep. Dave Mack, a friend of the church’s pastor, told CNN affiliate WCSC.
Corey Wessenger, who was standing across the street from the church, said the area was swarming with law enforcement.
“I just saw a group of about 40 people escorted by cops,” Wessenger told CNN by phone.
Community members gathered in a prayer circle just down the street from the scene.
Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush canceled a scheduled town hall in Charleston on Thursday “due to the tragic events unfolding in South Carolina tonight.”



Filed in: National and World News 













 






Circle FOX40 on G+!
Join the conversation by circling FOX40 on Google+







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


National and World News

Charleston Victims: 9 Lives Lost to Family and Community


National and World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War


National and World News

Woman Says Charleston Shooter Spared Her to ‘Tell Everyone’ What Happened



 


National and World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are Jail Neighbors, Police Confirm


National and World News

Minister: ‘No Evildoer, No Demon’ Can Close Church Targeted by Shooter


Local News

Pain of Charleston Shooting Felt in Northern California


National and World News News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images Of Roof


National and World News

Obama Eulogizes Pastor in Charleston Shooting



 


National and World News

Charleston Shooting Suspect Hears Victim’s Family Say, ‘I Forgive You’


News

FBI Investigating Cause of Latest Church Fire


National and World News

Lives of Promise: Charleston Victims Identified






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















