Dylann Roof allegedly confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’ | Q13 FOX News 
Dylann Roof allegedly confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’ | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Replay: Q13FOX News at 5 

Q13 FOX TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

84°







84°


Low 60°
High 85°





Fri


					60°  80°
					


Sat


					59°  74°
					


Sun


					60°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Dylann Roof allegedly confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’

Posted 6:53 AM, June 19, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePinterestEmail 



CHARLESTON — Dylann Roof admits he did it, two law enforcement officials said — shooting and killing nine people he’d sat with for Bible study at a historically black church in Charleston, South Carolina,
But why? To start a race war, Roof told investigators, according to one of the officials.
Others have given a glimpse into the twisted motivations of Roof, who is white, to shoot up the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Sylvia Johnson told CNN that a survivor told her he’d answered pleas to stop by saying, “No, you’ve raped our women, and you are taking over the country … I have to do what I have to do.”
His roommate told ABC News that Roof was “big into segregation.” And the Berkeley County, South Carolina, government tweeted a picture of him wearing a jacket with flags from apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that was ruled by a white minority until it became independent in 1980.
By telling authorities his aim, Roof admitted he attacked unarmed civilians for political purposes in an act of terror.
What led the 21-year-old South Carolinian to adopt this sick reasoning and take such actions Wednesday night? Did anyone else help him or even know about his plans? And what is his general mental state? Are all major, looming questions. Another is what American society should or will do now, if anything, to prevent similar tragedies.
In the meantime, a community — and nine families, in particular — are left to mourn.
Roommate: ‘He wanted something big like Trayvon Martin’
While he may not say much, Roof should get his first chance to speak up in court Friday for a presumed bond hearing.
Authorities and the public are trying to piece together how he got there.
John Mullins recalls “racist slurs in a sense” that Roof made while the two attended White Knoll High School in Lexington, South Carolina, though he also remembers him having black friends.
“He would say it just as a joke,” Mullins told CNN. “I never took it seriously. But … maybe they should have been.”
Joey Meek told ABC that talk of reinstating segregation was nothing new for Roof, his roommate. He’d been plotting something for six months, though “he never did any of that,” and authorities weren’t tipped off.
“I think he wanted something big like Trayvon Martin,” Meek said, referring to the black Florida teen whose shooting death at the hands of George Zimmerman — who was acquitted of murder — provoked huge protests. “He wanted to make something spark up the race war again.”
Officials: Suspect bought a gun in April
It’s one thing to talk of stirring racial hatred, another to act on it to kill nine innocent people — including the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, a state senator who had welcomed Roof into the Bible study session.
One key part of this horrific scheme — the weapon — came in April, when Roof bought a .45-caliber handgun at a Charleston gun store, according to the two law enforcement officials. His grandfather says that Roof was given “birthday money” and that the family didn’t know what Roof did with it.
He apparently didn’t hint at his intentions when he went to the historic church Wednesday. A Snapchat video shows him at a table with a small group, not anything to suggest the carnage to come.
When the Bible study ended after about an hour, “they just heard just a ringing of a loud noise,” Johnson said, relaying a survivor’s account.
From what Johnson heard, the gunman reloaded five times. Six women died at the scene, as did two men — with a third, the Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., passing away later during surgery. Johnson said her friend played dead, lying in the blood of her slain son.
Before Roof left the church, he asked one of the elderly members whether he had shot her, and she said no.
“And he said, ‘Good, because we need a survivor because I’m going to kill myself,’ ” Johnson told CNN.
Woman spotted, followed suspect’s car
Roof then took off, hopping into his car and heading north.
Debbie Dills spotted a vehicle matching the description given by authorities, noticing the South Carolina license plate.
“I don’t know what drew my attention to the car,” Dills told CNN. “In my mind I’m thinking, ‘That can’t be.’ … I never dreamed that it would be the car.”
She followed him more than 30 miles, keeping authorities updated along the way.
Police in Shelby, North Carolina — about 245 miles (395 kilometers) from Charleston — then pulled him over and took him into custody.
He then waived extradition and returned to South Carolina late Thursday. He could face his first court appearance, in this case, in his home state as early as Friday for a possible bond hearing.
Federal authorities have opened a hate crime investigation into the shooting at the oldest AME church in the South, according to the U.S. Department of Justice.
Said Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley, “The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate.”



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



 



			6 comments		




 

"peety"

saw  a new report that he actually bought the gun, it wasn’t a gift.    How can a man with pending felony charges get a gun?  Oh, that’s right It’s South Carolina, home of the weakest gun laws in the nation.




							June 19, 2015 at 7:28 AM						

Reply







 

tootietuttle

yeah…he could have saved some money and just bought one at Westlake…




							June 19, 2015 at 8:05 AM						

Reply







 

dg54321

He was 21 with no criminal record.  What law would have stopped him from buying one?  You act, as usual, out of ignorance that “one more law” would stop crazy people from doing crazy things.  You know what could really have helped?  If the parishioners in the church were carrying, any of them.  The freaking lunatic had the opportunity to reload FIVE TIMES and still walked away.  Completely in control of the situation.  This is what happens in “gun free zones” or with those who disarm themselves cause “feelz”.  And this is the way it always will be.  You can choose to be a helpless victim, or choose to be a functional adult who realizes your safety is your responsibility, and yours alone.
I know what choice you’ve already made, Petey.  I say this for the benefit of others who might get the basic concept that disarmed people gathered in large numbers are less safe than those who arm themselves for the basic right of self defense.




							June 19, 2015 at 8:10 AM						

Reply







 

The truth is out there, maybe!

Your not a felon until your convicted of the crime. An anybody can get a gun anytime they want if they really want one.




							June 19, 2015 at 9:33 AM						

Reply









 

Kit

If he’s confessed. why have the expense of a trial? Just hang the crazy boy this week.




							June 19, 2015 at 7:45 AM						

Reply







 

Klondiko

A “race war” is what Charles Manson was hoping for.




							June 19, 2015 at 11:01 AM						

Reply











 






Watch Sounders FC vs Chicago Fire Saturday on JOEtv
Match time 5:30pm PDT. #SummerofSoundersFC







 

 


Popular



Disturbing texts reveal final moments before father throws baby from bridge



Suspect leads police to remains of Justin Morris, victim in alleged ‘Frying Pan Murder’



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



The heartwarming story behind the ‘terrible’ Elsa cake everyone is mocking







 


Latest News



‘House of 1000 corpses’ and ‘The Jeffersons’ actor Irwin Keyes dies at 63



Police seek help finding missing woman, 67, in Pierce County



FBI: Foiled plots meant to ‘kill people in the U.S.’ timed to 4th of July



Pilot walks away after light plane crashes at Renton airport





 












National & World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


National & World News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


National & World News

Victims’ families confront accused church shooter: ‘May God have mercy on you’


National & World News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


National & World News

Details emerge about Charleston church shooting suspect Dylan Storm Roof



 


National & World News

Dylann Storm Roof, suspect in church shooting, arrested in North Carolina


National & World News

Quick-thinking woman helps cops capture Charleston church shooting suspect


National & World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police name suspect in Charleston church shooting


National & World News Politics

South Carolina bill to remove Confederate flag moves to House


National & World News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened



 


National & World News

9 killed in what officials call a hate crime at historic church; shooter at large


National & World News

Lightning may have caused South Carolina church fire, FBI says


National & World News

9 dead in black church shooting that police call a hate crime; shooter at large






 





Mobile AppsNews App (iOS)
News App (Android)
Weather App (iOS)
Weather App (Android)




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2015, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


















































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















