Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com 
Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 10:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

84°







84°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting

Posted 6:24 am, June 18, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 



×
Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


 


[Update 8:34 a.m] A woman who survived the church shooting says the gunman told her he was letting her live so that she could tell people what happened there, Charleston NAACP President Dot Scott told CNN. Scott said she heard this from the woman’s family.
Update [7:19 a.m.] There were three survivors in Wednesday evening’s shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, Charleston police Chief Greg Mullen said Thursday morning.
Three males and six females were killed in the shooting, he said.
Original story 
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Police released photos of the suspect in the Charleston church shooting that’s being investigated as a hate crime.
The suspect is in his early 20s and is approximately 5 feet 9 inches tall.
“He has on a very distinctive sweatshirt as well as the vehicle, with a very distinctive license plate,” Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen said.
Police said they believe he is still in the Charleston area.
“This is an all hands on deck effort with the community as well as law enforcement,” Mullen said. “When people go out they should be vigilant, they should be aware of their surroundings. And if they see anything suspicious, they should call law enforcement.”


Anyone with information about this incident call 1-800-CALL-FBI. pic.twitter.com/EidJGhNEDp
— City of Charleston (@CityCharleston) June 18, 2015

Full Story 
A white man walked into a historic African-American church in Charleston, S.C., and opened fire during a Bible study class, killing nine people Wednesday evening.
The suspect was still at large early Thursday morning. And the shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, the oldest AME church in the South, is being investigated as a hate crime.
“The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate,” said Charleston Mayor Joe Riley.
Eight churchgoers died at the scene; a ninth at a hospital, police said. Among them is the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, according to CNN affiliate WCSC.
Officials wouldn’t say how many people were at the Bible study during the shooting. There were survivors,  Mullen said, but he didn’t elaborate.
Historic significance
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church has been a presence in Charleston since 1816 when African-American members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church formed their own congregation after a dispute over burial grounds.
It was burned to the ground at one point, but rebuilt. Over and over throughout its history, it overcame obstacle after obstacle — destroyed by an earthquake, banned by the state. But its church members persevered, making it the largest African-American church in terms of seating space in Charleston today.
Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement.
The shooting was “obviously the most intolerable and unbelievable act possible,” the mayor said.
“People in prayer Wednesday evening. A ritual, a coming together, praying, worshiping God. An awful person come in and shoot them is inexplicable,” Riley said.
Police received the first call around 9:05 p.m. Officers arrived to find several victims inside.
“It’s really bad. It’s a very bad scene,” local pastor Thomas Dixon said.
Search on for suspect
Police said the suspect in the shooting is a clean-shaven white man in his early 20s, 5 feet 9 inches tall, with a slender build and sandy blonde hair. He was wearing a gray sweatshirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.
“He obviously is extremely dangerous,” Chief Mullen said.
Thursday morning, police handed out images of the man and his vehicle taken from surveillance footage and asked for the public’s help in identifying the man. Officials believe he is still in the Charleston area, but have contacted law enforcement authorities elsewhere to be on the lookout.
“This is an all hands on deck effort with the community as well as law enforcement,” Mullen said. “When people go out they should be vigilant, they should be aware of their surroundings. And if they see anything suspicious, they should call law enforcement.”
Late Wednesday night, news cameras showed officers taking a man matching that description into custody, but he was later released.
“While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we’ll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another,” South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said.
Mullen was more direct: “I do believe this was a hate crime.”
‘Sick to our stomachs’
The church sits in an area of Charleston densely packed with houses of worship and well-preserved old buildings.
The city, as several reverends pointed out, is known as the “Holy City” for its tolerant attitude toward different denominations.
The church was led by Rev. Clementa Pinckney, who was also a state senator. His death was reported by affiliate WCSC, who confirmed it through Elder James Johnson, the president of the Tri-County chapter of the civil rights organization, the National Action Network.
Recently, Pinckney backed a bill to make body cameras mandatory for all police officers in South Carolina. The legislation was in response to the death of Walter Scott, an unarmed black man killed by a police officer earlier this year.
“Body cameras help to record what happens. It may not be the golden ticket, the golden egg, the end-all-fix-all, but it helps to paint a picture of what happens during a police stop,” Pinckney said in April.
Early Thursday morning, residents stood in circles, hands clasped and heads bowed, as they prayed.
“Like everybody out here, we’re sick to our stomachs that this could happen in a church,” Rep. Dave Mack, a friend of the church’s pastor, said.
They called for justice, but also for calm heads.
Theirs is a strong community, they said, and this incident wouldn’t tear them apart.
The head of the NAACP expressed his outrage over the shooting.
“There is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people engaged in the study of scripture,” Cornell William Brooks said.
Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush canceled a scheduled town hall in Charleston on Thursday because of the shooting.
“As the Charleston police deem this horrific act a hate crime,” the King Center tweeted, “we pray vigorously that this person’s hate does not cultivate more hate.”

32.776475
-79.931051



Related stories

SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting
Charleston shooting: 9 killed in ‘hate crime’ shooting at church




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: Charleston, church shooting 













 






Women Making a Difference
Know a woman in the community who is doing good? We want to share your story.







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Charleston shooting: 9 killed in ‘hate crime’ shooting at church


News

CAPTURED: Charleston church shooting suspect Dylann Roof has been caught in Shelby, NC


News

Who is the suspect in the South Carolina church shooting that killed nine people?



 


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

2 police killings, 2 outcomes: Lessons learned from Ferguson to South Carolina


News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Quick-thinking NC woman helps police nab suspect in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

Dylann Roof confesses to killing 9 people in Charleston church, wanting to start ‘race war’



 


News

Walter Scott, shot in the back after police stop, is laid to rest


News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















