How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine | myfox8.com 
How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine | myfox8.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: 10:00 p.m. News 

FOX8 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






myfox8.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Morning News
Sports
You Decide 2016
Lottery
Contests
Events




Weather 

84°







84°


Low 70°
High 95°





Fri


					72°  92°
					


Sat


					71°  90°
					


Sun


					70°  88°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine

Posted 4:43 pm, June 18, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 04:46pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




 
Cynthia Hurd. 


×
How to help support victims’ families in South Carolina church shooting that killed nine


 Cynthia Hurd.


CHARLESTON, S.C. — Charleston’s Mayor Joseph P. Riley, Jr. has set up “Mother Emanuel Hope” fund at Wells Fargo bank.
The city has already pledged $5,000. The fund will help family members pay for funerals, counseling and other financial needs.
Donations can be made by walking into any of Wells Fargo’s 6,200 banking locations. An online portal to donate will be live soon, but for now you can make a check out to “Mother Emanuel Hope Fund” and send it to the address below:
Mother Emanuel Hope Fund
C/O City of Charleston
P.O. Box 304 Charleston, SC 29402.
Honoring the victims
Emanuel AME, a pillar in the Charleston community, is the oldest AME church in the south. Religious leaders, of all faiths, are calling for prayers in honor of the victims.
“I pray that everyone affected by this horror will feel the comforting presence of our Lord surrounding them during this difficult time,” said Bishop Robert E. Guglielmone of the Diocese of Charleston on Thursday.
Richard Norris, the Bishop of the affected district of the AME Church has called for prayer amongst believers across South Carolina.
“This is not only a tragedy for Emanuel and not only a tragedy for the AME church, but it is a tragedy for the nation,” said John Richard Bryant, Bishop of the Fourth District of the AME Church.
The church pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, who is also a state senator, was killed while delivering a sermon. Those who knew him say he was a peacemaker.
Social media is a buzz with memories and announcements of vigils honoring the victims.
Myra Thompson, who was killed while teaching the Bible study class at Emanuel, was a woman who loved the Lord, according to those who knew her.
“Her every objective was to please him in all that she did. She was teaching Bible study when she was killed,” said Bishop Alphonza Gadsden.
The Rev. Sharonda Singleton, a speech therapist and track coach at Goose Creek High School, is being remembered with a “Night of Prayer”
Cynthia Hurd, an employee of Charleston County Public Library for 31 years was also killed in the shooting. In a post made by the library on Facebook, a two day closure was announced in her memory.

32.776475
-79.931051




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: South Carolina church shooting 













 






You Decide 2016
FOX8’s comprehensive election coverage







 

 


Popular



Kernersville child abuse photos go viral; charges dropped against man re-filed



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Federal authorities raid home of Subway spokesman Jared Fogle in child pornography investigation



Missing teen Hayleigh Wilson found with sex offender in Virginia







 


Latest News



Senator Burr on terror threat: NC teen ‘planned to buy an AR-15 the next morning’



Hundreds gather in Columbia, SC ahead of Confederate flag being taken down



Weather Blog:   Hot summer so far….90° Facts



Iconic hot dog stand coming to downtown Winston-Salem





 












News

Minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church targeted by shooter


News

Former NC senator’s sister among 9 killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Local AME church remembers South Carolina victims


News

Worshippers return to South Carolina church after shooting that killed nine


News

High Point church taking up offering for Charleston



 


News

Police release photos of suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Panthers donate $100k to families of victims in SC church shooting that killed nine


News

SC Senator killed in Charleston church shooting


News

Charleston remembers three more with services for victims of church massacre


News

New details emerge about how the Charleston shooting unfolded



 


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Charleston victims: 9 lives lost to family and community






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
Weather iPhone App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2005 Francis St. High Point, NC 27263  •
		Copyright © 2015, WGHP		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “myfox8.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 51,421 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















