Beloved College Librarian Lost in Church Shooting  : College of Charleston News
Beloved College Librarian Lost in Church Shooting  : College of Charleston News







    



                                                Fri Jul 10, 2015                                                





MyCharleston
Library
Directory
Site Index
Emergency Info










      CofC 


      Site 





















                                Menu
                            


Admission and Financial Aid

About

Academics

Campus Life

Athletics

Alumni





 
 









Home » Beloved College Librarian Lost in Church Shooting


Beloved College Librarian Lost in Church Shooting

18 June 2015 | 4:33 pm
By: Jason Ryan


Contact: Mike Robertson, senior director of communications, 843.953.5667


FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmailPrint A message from President Glenn McConnell:
Dear Campus Community:
CofC and Charleston County librarian Cynthia Hurd.
The tragedy at Emanuel A.M.E. Church hits painfully close to home. Among the victims of the horrific acts of Wednesday night was one of our own. Cynthia Hurd was a beloved and valued member of our College family.
In addition to her full-time job as regional manager of Charleston County’s St. Andrews Regional Library, Cynthia also worked at the College’s Addlestone Library as a part-time librarian. She was our longest-serving part-time librarian, having been at the College since the 1990s, when our library was still housed in the Robert Scott Small Building.
It is an understatement to say that Cynthia was dependable and an irreplaceable asset to our campus and to the countless library patrons she assisted over the years. She was a protector and lover of books and a fountain of knowledge whose loss will be felt by our entire College community.
Cynthia worked tirelessly to serve and improve her beloved city and its people. She was an advocate for education and life-long learning. Prior to becoming manager of the St. Andrews branch, Cynthia was a branch manager of John L. Dart Branch Library from 1990 to 2011.
Known for her quick wit and sense of humor, Cynthia connected with every person with whom she came in contact. She could relate to anyone, no matter who they were or where they came from. In that sense, she represented the very best of our College and our beloved Charleston.
On behalf of our entire College community across the world, I extend condolences to Cynthia’s family and loved ones and to the families and friends of all nine victims of this senseless act.
The College’s counseling staff stands ready to assist any member of the campus community in need. Please contact them at 843.953.5640. In addition, our Religious Life Council, which is a volunteer group of faith advisers representing 17 religious denominations, can also offer assistance. A council representative can be reached at 740.405.5043.
Together, we will move forward from this tragedy, and we will continue to serve our students and our campus community, just as Cynthia always did. But we move forward knowing that we are a lesser place today and forever because of this profound loss of life.
Sincerely yours,
Glenn F. McConnell ’69


Related



Campus Life Top Stories




Subscribe
If you enjoyed this article, subscribe to receive more just like it.










Comments are closed.






Search
News Briefs



Brett Gardner Named to MLB All-Star Team
The New York Yankees outfielder has been selected to play in the MLB All-Star Game in Cincinnati on July 14, 2015.

 




STEAM Camps Sweep College of Charleston
Two camps dedicated to inspiring interest in math, science and arts fields in young students took place at the College of Charleston this summer.

 




Sailors to Represent College in 2016 Summer Olympics
Sophomore Stefano Peschiera and alumnus Juan Maegli ’12 have qualified to represent their respective countries in sailing events at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

 


Subscribe







			Enter your email address to receive our newsletter.		




Email Address








Related Articles 
In Case You Missed It



I Want Your Job: Owner of Surf Company in Costa Rica
Phillip Hall ’09 gets paid to be on vacation. He spends his days surfing in Costa Rica, traveling the country and capturing it all in photos and video.

 





Popular Posts

Chemistry Professor Explains How Sunscreen Works 
Professors Search for Lizard Man in S.C. 
How Much Do You Really Know About the CofC Experience? 



Categories  

Select category
Academics
Alumni
Athletics
Campus Life
Charleston Beats
CofC History
CofC In the News
Featured Events
Featured Videos
In Case You Missed It
News Briefs
Top Stories





Instagram Feed Load More...Follow on Instagram
Latest YouTube UploadVisit our YouTube channel 


 
 
 




Contact Information


Mike Robertson

Senior Director, Media Relations

                        843.953.5667
                    

Hannah Ashe

Associate Director of Communications, Media Relations

                        843.953.4918
                    




Ron Menchaca

Senior Director, Communications

                        843.953.3395
                    

Jason Ryan

Assistant Managing Editor, The College Today
			843.953.6067
                    



Archives

Athletics
News Releases
Featured Expert
In the News
News Briefs



Related Links

Expert Guide
For the Media
Video Services
Social Media
Photo Gallery


























                                    
                                      
                                      66 George Street
                                      Charleston, South Carolina 29424
                                      843.805.5507
                                    




Colleges and Schools

Arts
Business
Education, Health and Human Perfomance
Humanities and Social Sciences
Languages, Cultures and World Affairs
Sciences and Mathematics
Graduate School
Honors College





Information For

Current Students
Faculty and Staff
Alumni
Families/Parents
International Students
Job Applicants





Quick Links

Public Safety
Campus Jobs
Bookstore
Giving
Contact Us
Information Technology
Transparency Spending





Copyright © 2014 All Right Reserved. College of Charleston | Privacy Policy



 








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address





Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			




















