Local Churches Holding Prayer Vigils Friday in Wake of S.C. Shooting | whotv.com 
Local Churches Holding Prayer Vigils Friday in Wake of S.C. Shooting | whotv.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Six 

WHO-HD Channel 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






whotv.com

 Menu

News
Mega Doppler-S
Sports
On 13
Contests
Events




Weather 

75°







75°


Low 63°
High 78°





Fri


					71°  83°
					


Sat


					72°  90°
					


Sun


					71°  92°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Local Churches Holding Prayer Vigils Friday in Wake of S.C. Shooting

Posted 11:31 am, June 19, 2015, by Jodi Whitworth, Updated at 12:16pm, June 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleEmailRedditTumblr 




 



×
Local Churches Holding Prayer Vigils Friday in Wake of S.C. Shooting


 


DES MOINES, Iowa — On Friday, three local churches will host prayer vigils and services to remember the lives lost in the Charleston, South Carolina church shooting.
On Wednesday, 21-year-old, Dylann Roof, shot and killed nine church members including the pastor of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church during an evening bible study.
Roof admitted to the killings and is charged with nine counts of murder and one count of possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime.
Members of the Des Moines faith community will host events throughout the day.
A prayer vigil will take place at St. Paul AME Church from noon to 1p.m. The church is located at 201 Day Street in Des Moines.
The Temple B’nai Jeshurun will host an interfaith Shabbat service from 6p.m – 7p.m. Reverend Dr. Brigitte Black from Bethel AME in Des Moines will be the featured speaker. The event is located at 5101 Grand Avenue in Des Moines.
This evening, Bethel AME Church invites the community to its worship service at 7:30 p.m. The church is located at 1528 E. University in Des Moines.
All the events are free and open to the public.
 
 



Filed in: News Topics: Charleston Church Shooting 













 






 Channel 13 is on Instagram!
Join the fun.  Share with us!







 

 


Popular



Adventureland to Build New Roller Coaster in 2016



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Feds Raid Home of Subway Spokesman Jared Fogle in Child Pornography Investigation



Viral Facebook Post About Veteran And Service Dog May Not Be Completely True







 


Latest News



Old Fashioned Place to Give Birth Becomes New Trend



Three Iowa Vietnam Veterans Reflect On Their Experiences



Father Accused of Killing Three-year-old Daughter



Government Data Breach Impacted More Than 20 Million





 












News

No Plans for Tighter Security at Des Moines Church Following Charleston Shooting


News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call a Hate Crime


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina


News

Multiple Fatalities at Church Shooting in Downtown Charleston, S.C.


News

Obama Set to Eulogize Pastor in Charleston Shooting



 


News

Prayer Gathering Held in Des Moines After Charleston Church Shooting


News

Charleston Church Shooting: Questions Swirl Around Suspect Dylann Roof


News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


News

Watch President Obama Sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at Eulogy for Reverend Killed in Charleston Shooting


News

Ted Cruz Talks Charleston Shooting While in Johnston



 


News

Funeral for Fallen Omaha Police Officer Held Tuesday


News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images of Roof


News

Charleston Shooting Victim Funerals Begin, As Confederate Flag Falls in Other States






 





Mobile Apps13WarnMe Weather iPhone App
Android App
News iPhone & iPad App
Severe Weather Android App
Severe Weather iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1801 Grand Ave. Des Moines, IA 50309  •
		Copyright © 2015, WHO		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “whotv.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,320 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















