Pres. Obama brings up gun control issue while addressing US about Charleston shooting | fox13now.com 
Pres. Obama brings up gun control issue while addressing US about Charleston shooting | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

79°







79°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					67°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Pres. Obama brings up gun control issue while addressing US about Charleston shooting

Posted 11:09 am, June 18, 2015, by Ashton Edwards and CNN Wire, Updated at 11:22am, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




Full video: Watch President Obama's statement on the tragic #CharlestonShooting. http://t.co/LkxrbDmWQQ
— The White House (@WhiteHouse) June 18, 2015

WASHINGTON – President Barack Obama addressed the nation after a shooting at a historic Charleston, South Carolina, church that killed nine people.
He called the nine deaths in the Charleston, South Carolina church shooting “senseless murders” Thursday and touched upon what he said was a need for more gun control in the wake of the tragedy.
“Any death of this sort is a tragedy. Any shooting involving multiple victims is a tragedy,” Obama said, as Vice President Joe Biden stood alongside him. “There is something particularly heartbreaking about death happening in a place in which we seek solace, we seek peace.”


"To say our thoughts and prayers are with them…doesn’t say enough to convey the heartache & the sadness & the anger that we feel." —@POTUS
— The White House (@WhiteHouse) June 18, 2015



"I’ve had to make statements like these too many times. Communities like this have had to endure tragedies like this too many times" —@POTUS
— The White House (@WhiteHouse) June 18, 2015

Obama declined to comment on specific details of the investigation, which currently centers on 21-year-old suspect Dylann Storm Roof, who was taken into custody late Thursday morning in Shelby, North Carolina, authorities have said.
But the President said the tragedy should refocus attention on preventing potential killers from getting their hands on guns.
“We do know that once again, innocent people were killed in part because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hands on a gun,” Obama said at the White House. “At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this kind of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries. It doesn’t happen in other places with this kind of frequency. It is in our power to do something about it.”


"Innocent people were killed in part because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hands on a gun." —@POTUS
— The White House (@WhiteHouse) June 18, 2015



"We as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries." —@POTUS
— The White House (@WhiteHouse) June 18, 2015

Witnesses say the gunman stood up at the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church and said he was there “to shoot black people,” a law enforcement official said. The shooter is also thought to have used a handgun, according to the official.
So where do you stand on gun control? Join the conversation on Facebook here.


38.907192
-77.036871



Related stories

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested
Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News, Politics Topics: Charleston shooting, Dylann Roof, gun control, gun rights, politics, pres. obama, south carolina 













 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



Teen suffers fatal injuries after jumping from moving vehicle





 












News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect in mass shooting


News

This is how easy it is to get a gun in America


News

Vigil in Salt Lake City honors victims of shooting in Charleston



 


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


News

South Carolina Confederate flag back in the spotlight after massacre


News

		2 hours ago	

S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds


News

Minister: “No evildoer, no demon” can close church targeted by shooter


News

Obama uses N-word, says we are ‘not cured’ of racism



 


News

Mitt Romney tweet ignites discussion of removal of Confederate Flag at SC Capitol


News

Local faith leaders express grief, disappointment over fatal South Carolina church shooting


News

Watch: Pres. Obama addresses nation after SCOTUS legalizes same-sex marriage






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















