Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War | FOX40 
Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War | FOX40






GoSearch







 Replay:  

FOX40 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






FOX40

 Menu

News
Morning
Sports
Traffic
Seen on FOX40
Contests
Events




Weather 

67°







67°


Low 59°
High 78°





Fri


					58°  84°
					


Sat


					60°  87°
					


Sun


					57°  84°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Charleston Church Shooting: Suspect Confesses, Says He Sought Race War

Posted 7:28 AM, June 19, 2015, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterRedditGooglePocketTumblrEmail 


Dylann Roof, 21, was arrested Thursday morning about 245 miles (395 kilometers) away in Shelby, North Carolina, law enforcement authorities said. Roof is a suspect in the killing nine people Wednesday, June 17, 2015 night at a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina. This is a mug shot from Charleston County Sheriff’s Office.
CHARLESTON, S.C. (CNN)–
Dylann Roof admits he did it, two law enforcement officials said — shooting and killing nine people he’d sat with for Bible study at a historically black church in Charleston, South Carolina.
But why? To start a race war, Roof told investigators, according to one of the officials.
CNN’s Evan Perez and Wesley Bruer were the first to report Roof’s confessing and offering his divisive rationale. Others earlier gave a glimpse into his twisted motivations — including at the site of the shooting, Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. There, a survivor told Sylvia Johnson that Roof answered one man’s pleas to stop by saying, “No, you’ve raped our women, and you are taking over the country … I have to do what I have to do.”
His roommate told ABC News that Roof was “big into segregation.” And the Berkeley County, South Carolina, government tweeted a picture of him wearing a jacket with flags from apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that was ruled by a white minority until it became independent in 1980.
By telling authorities his aim, Roof admitted he attacked unarmed civilians for political purposes in an act of terror.
What led the 21-year-old South Carolinian to adopt this sick reasoning and take such actions Wednesday night? Did anyone else help him or even know about his plans? And what is his general mental state? Are all major, looming questions. Another is what American society should or will do now, if anything, to prevent similar tragedies.
In the meantime, a community — and nine families, in particular — are left to mourn.
Roommate: ‘He wanted something big like Trayvon Martin’
While he may not say much, Roof is expected to be in a South Carolina court at 2 p.m. ET on Friday for a bond hearing, according to Charleston police. He is accused of nine counts of murder and possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime.
Authorities and the public are trying to piece together how he got there.
John Mullins recalls “racist slurs in a sense” that Roof made while the two attended White Knoll High School in Lexington, South Carolina, though he also remembers him having black friends.
“He would say it just as a joke,” Mullins told CNN. “I never took it seriously. But … maybe they should have been.”
Joey Meek told ABC that talk of reinstating segregation was nothing new for Roof, his roommate. He’d been plotting something for six months, though “he never did any of that,” and authorities weren’t tipped off.
“I think he wanted something big like Trayvon Martin,” Meek said, referring to the black Florida teen whose shooting death at the hands of George Zimmerman — who was acquitted of murder — provoked huge protests. “He wanted to make something spark up the race war again.”
Officials: Suspect bought a gun in April
It’s one thing to talk of stirring racial hatred, another to act on it to kill nine innocent people — including the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, a state senator who had welcomed Roof into the Bible study session.
One key part of this horrific scheme — the weapon — came in April, when Roof bought a .45-caliber handgun at a Charleston gun store, the two law enforcement officials told Perez and Bruer from CNN, the first network to report this development. His grandfather says that Roof was given “birthday money” and that the family didn’t know what Roof did with it.
He apparently didn’t hint at his intentions when he went to the historic church Wednesday. A Snapchat video shows him at a table with a small group, not anything to suggest the carnage to come.
When the Bible study ended after about an hour, “they just heard just a ringing of a loud noise,” Johnson said, relaying a survivor’s account.
From what Johnson heard, the gunman reloaded five times. Six women died at the scene, as did two men — with a third, the Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., passing away later during surgery. Johnson said her friend played dead, lying in the blood of her slain son.
Before Roof left the church, he asked one of the elderly members whether he had shot her, and she said no.
“And he said, ‘Good, because we need a survivor because I’m going to kill myself,’ ” Johnson told CNN.
Woman spotted, followed suspect’s car
Roof then took off, hopping into his car and heading north.
Debbie Dills spotted a vehicle matching the description given by authorities, noticing the South Carolina license plate.
“I don’t know what drew my attention to the car,” Dills told CNN. “In my mind I’m thinking, ‘That can’t be.’ … I never dreamed that it would be the car.”
She followed him more than 30 miles, keeping authorities updated along the way.
Police in Shelby, North Carolina — about 245 miles (395 kilometers) from Charleston — then pulled him over and took him into custody. He then waived extradition and returned to South Carolina late Thursday.
Federal authorities have opened a hate crime investigation into the shooting at the oldest AME church in the South, according to the U.S. Department of Justice.
Said Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley, “The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate.”



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National and World News Topics: Charleston Church Shooting 













 






Like FOX40 on Facebook!
Join the conversation by commenting on the FOX40News Facebook page







 

 


Popular



Inderkum High School Teacher Under Investigation



Police: Dad Admitted Throwing Baby Off Bridge, Then Jumping



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Sac Fire Attempts Water Rescue at Discovery Park







 


Latest News



7-Year-Old Missing from Galt



City of Marysville Searches for Misconduct Within Police Department



Five-Year-Old Wanders Off from Fitness Daycare



Stanislaus County Fair Previews New Exhibits





 












National and World News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are Jail Neighbors, Police Confirm


National and World News

Charleston Shooting Suspect Hears Victim’s Family Say, ‘I Forgive You’


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested


National and World News

Minister: ‘No Evildoer, No Demon’ Can Close Church Targeted by Shooter


National and World News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting



 


National and World News

Woman Says Charleston Shooter Spared Her to ‘Tell Everyone’ What Happened


National and World News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call Hate Crime


National and World News

Charleston Victims: 9 Lives Lost to Family and Community


News

FBI Investigating Cause of Latest Church Fire


National and World News News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images Of Roof



 


National and World News

Walmart to Stop Selling Confederate Flag Merchandise


National and World News

South Carolina Bill to Remove Confederate Flag Moves to House


National and World News

Lives of Promise: Charleston Victims Identified






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
Breaking News Alerts




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		4655 Fruitridge Road Sacramento, CA 95820  •
		Copyright © 2015, KTXL		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















