9 dead in church shooting in South Carolina; suspect still at large | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
9 dead in church shooting in South Carolina; suspect still at large | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Watch Now: PIX11 News at 10 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 71°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  87°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 GOAL! Explore PIX11’s full coverage of the World Cup Ticker Tape Parade						








 







Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime

Posted 10:42 PM, June 17, 2015, by CNN, Updated at 07:29pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 







CHARLESTON, S.C. — A white man walked into a historic African-American church in South Carolina and opened fire during a Bible study class, killing nine people Wednesday evening in what officials are investigating as a hate crime.
The suspected gunman was captured early Thursday, thanks to a tip from a vigilant woman on her way to work who followed the man’s car for some 35 miles until police arrived. Dylan Storm Roof, 21, is accused of opening fire inside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, the oldest AME church in the South.
“The only reason someone would walk into a church and shoot people that were praying is hate,” Charleston Mayor Joe Riley said.
Eight churchgoers died at the scene; a ninth at a hospital, police said. Among them is the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, according to CNN affiliate WCSC.
Officials wouldn’t say how many people were at the Bible study during the shooting. There were survivors, said Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen, but he didn’t elaborate.
Historic significance
Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church has been a presence in Charleston since 1816, when African-American members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church formed their own congregation after a dispute over burial grounds.
It was burned to the ground at one point, but rebuilt. Throughout its history, it overcame obstacle after obstacle — destroyed by an earthquake, banned by the state. But its church members persevered, making it the largest African-American church in terms of seating space in Charleston today.
Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement.
The shooting was “obviously the most intolerable and unbelievable act possible,” the mayor said.
“People in prayer Wednesday evening. A ritual, a coming together, praying, worshiping God. An awful person to come in and shoot them is inexplicable,” Riley said.
Police received the first call around 9:05 p.m. Officers arrived to find several victims inside.
“It’s really bad. It’s a very bad scene,” local pastor Thomas Dixon said.
 
Sick to our stomachs’
The church sits in an area of Charleston densely packed with houses of worship and well-preserved old buildings.
The city, as several church leaders pointed out, is known as the “Holy City” for its tolerant attitude toward different denominations.
It was led by Pinckney, who was also a state senator. His death was reported by affiliate WCSC, who confirmed it through Elder James Johnson, the president of the Tri-County chapter of the National Action Network civil rights organization.
Recently, Pinckney backed a bill to make body cameras mandatory for all police officers in South Carolina. The legislation was in response to the death of Walter Scott, an unarmed black man killed by a police officer this year.
“Body cameras help to record what happens. It may not be the golden ticket, the golden egg, the end-all-fix-all, but it helps to paint a picture of what happens during a police stop,” Pinckney said in April.
Early Thursday morning, residents stood in circles, hands clasped and heads bowed, as they prayed.
“Like everybody out here, we’re sick to our stomachs that this could happen in a church,” said Rep. Dave Mack, a friend of the church’s pastor.
They called for justice, but also for calm. Theirs is a strong community, they said, and this incident wouldn’t tear them apart.
The president of the NAACP expressed his outrage over the shooting.
“There is no greater coward than a criminal who enters a house of God and slaughters innocent people engaged in the study of scripture,” Cornell William Brooks said.
Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush canceled a scheduled town hall in Charleston on Thursday because of the shooting.
“As the #Charleston police deem this horrific act a hate crime,” the King Center tweeted, “we pray vigorously that this person’s hate does not cultivate more hate.”


PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]


PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit


DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says


New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]





Related stories

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News 













 






Watch The CW Now!
See last night’s episodes now on The CW







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Program helps kids of incarcerated parents in NYC



NJ family plagued by mysterious illness



Web extra: Christian Borle talks historic dressing room, show us his costumes



Web extra: Brad Oscar and Brooks Ashmanskas talk their dressing room decor





 












News

South Carolina church fire: Mt. Zion AME burns in Greeleyville


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter



 


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting


News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings



 


News

How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC


News

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Vigils held in Harlem to remember victims of South Carolina church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















