Charleston church massacre suspect 'had been planning attack for six months' - Telegraph
Charleston church massacre suspect 'had been planning attack for six months' - Telegraph
























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Friday 10 July 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
North America»
USA











Charleston church massacre suspect 'had been planning attack for six months'

Dylann Roof will be in court Friday on charges that he killed nine people at 
  an African American church in South Carolina 


















 



							By David Lawler, Washington

5:22AM BST 19 Jun 2015
 


 The man suspected of massacring nine people in an historic African American church in South Carolina had been planning an attack for six months and wanted to spark a civil war, according to his roommate.  Witnesses said Dylann Storm Roof, 21, told his victims, "you rape our women and you're taking over our country" before opening fire. According to the witnesses, he had been sitting alongside them for about an hour in a Bible study at Emanuel AME church in Charleston before rising to carry out the slaughter.  • Dylann Storm Roof: a boyish face but hate in his heart  • Charleston shootings: Who are the nine victims?  • On race, on guns, Obama confronts the limits of his power  Dalton Tyler, his roommate, described Roof as a committed segregationist who had been "planning something like that for six months".  "He was big into segregation and other stuff," Mr Tyler told ABC News. "He said he wanted to start a civil war. He said he was going to do something like that and then kill himself."   Roof is now in police custody and is expected to face murder charges.  He was extradited to Charleston on Thursday night from Shelby, North Carolina, where he was arrested after a driver spotted him and phoned police.  Debbie Dills, the caller, said she had pulled up alongside another car, and noticed that the hair cut and facial features of the driver resembled the suspect who had been shown on the news. Police arrived just minutes later, and took Roof into custody. 


 They said Roof surrendered without a struggle and had been "cooperative". His next appearance will be a bond hearing scheduled for 2pm local time on Friday.  Joseph Riley, the mayor of Charleston, pledged that Roof would never again be a free man.  "That awful person. That terrible human being who would go into a place of worship where people were praying and kill them is now in custody where he will always remain," he said.  President Barack Obama knew one of the nine victims, Reverend Clemanta Pinckney, personally. He addressed the tragedy from the White House with a blend of grief and anger.   Rev Clementa Pinckney (EPA)  "I've had to make statements like this too many times. Communities like this have had to endure tragedies like this too many times," he said.  "We don't have all the facts but we do know that once again, innocent people were killed in part because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hands on a gun."  Rev Pinckney, 41, was a state senator in addition to serving as pastor at the church. A colleague described him as a "giant, a legend, and a moral compass".  The eight other victims were identified on Thursday evening, and ranged from 26-87 years of age. 




     Charleston shooting: how the horror unfolded 
   




      Wednesday, June 17 
    


       9pm (local time) 
     




       A man kneels across the street from where police gather outside the Emanuel AME Church (AP) 
     


      A man enters the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church where a bible group was meeting. He sits down before opening fire killing 9 people. He flees the scene. 
    



      Thursday, June 18 
    


       6.45am (BST) 
     


      Police release a description of the suspect 
    




       7.09am (BST) 
     


      Local police chief Gregory Mullen stages a press conference declaring that 8 people died at the scene whilst a 9th died after being taken to hospital 
    




       7.10am (BST) 
     




       Reverend Clementa Pinckney is among the dead (Facebook) 
     


      Reverend Al Sharpton tweets that the church's pastor, and member of the state Senate, Reverend Clementa Pinckney is among the dead 
    




       7.11am (BST) 
     


      Jed Bush cancels a rally scheduled to take place in Charleston. 
    




       7.42am (BST) 
     


      Charleston's Mayor issues the following statement: "The only reason that someone could walk into a church and shoot people praying is out of hate. It is the most dastardly act that one could possibly imagine, and we will bring that person to justice. This is one hateful person. This is the most unspeakable and heart-breaking tragedy. People [were] in prayer on a Wednesday evening. A ritual coming together, praying and worshipping God. To have an awful person come in and shoot them is, is inexplicable." 
    




       8.12am (BST) 
     


      Nikki Haley, governor of South Carolina, says in a statement: "Michael, Rena, Nalin and I are praying for the victims and families touched by tonight's senseless tragedy at Emanuel AME Church. While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we'll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another. Please join us in lifting up the victims and their families with our love and prayers." 
    




       09.07am (BST) 
     


      A bomb threat is reported near the sight of the church - reporters are told to leave and the area is evacuated. 
    




       11.05am (BST) 
     




       A 'Need to Identify' poster issued by the Charleston Police Department 
     


      A photo of the suspect is released by the local police department. 
    




       11.21am (BST) 
     


      Charleston police chief Greg Mullen holds a press conference urging the public not to approach the suspect. 
    




       12.10pm (BST) 
     


      Mayor of Charleston Joesph Riley issues a statement about the horrific events. 
    




       3.04pm (BST) 
     


      More information emerges about the shooting. Sylvia Johnson says: "From my understanding the suspect came to the church and he asked for the pastor. They showed him where the pastor was. He sat next to my cousin, Rev Clementa Pinckney, throughout the entire bible study. At the conclusion of the bible study, from what I understand, they just start hearing a loud noise, it's just ringing out, and the suspect had already wounded a couple of individuals including my cousin Rev Clementa Pinckney. [One of the survivors] said he [the suspect] had reloaded five different times, and her son was trying to talk him out of doing the act of killing people. And he just said 'I have to do it... you rape our women and you're taking over our country, and you have to go'." 
    




       3.07pm (BST) 
     


      The FBI name the suspect as 21-year-old Dylaan Roof. 
    




       3.20pm (BST) 
     




       Charleston shooting suspect Dylaan Roof, 21 (EPA) 
     


      A picture emerges of Roof wearing a jacket adorned with the flags of White ruled Rhodesia and apartheid-era South Africa. 
    




       4.40pm (BST) 
     


      Amid reports from CNN and CBS, the US Attorney General Lorretta Lynch confirms that a suspect has been detained in connection with the shooting. 
    




       4.42pm (BST) 
     


      Chief Mullen confirms the news: "I am very pleased to say... we have arrested Dylan Roof He was arrested in Shelby, NC at a traffic stop. We have detectives preparing to fly to Shelby to interview and prepare for evidence recovery." 
    




       5.35pm (BST) 
     


      President Obama speaks of his anger and pain over the shootings. 
    
















Follow @telegraphnews


































Top news galleries





Princess Charlotte's christening: official photos




 




The official pictures of Princess Charlotte's christening by the celebrated 
  photographer are released - plus all the other best pictures from a glorious 
  day at Sandringham






40 great quotes about marriage




 


 Culture


As Married at First Sight begins, Martin Chilton looks at quotes about 
  matrimony from Socrates to Sinatra


Comments






Roger Federer's top 10 bust-ups




 




In pics: As he prepares to face long-term rival Andy Murray at 
  Wimbledon, we look at the times when even the Swiss superstar lost his 
  cool...


Comments






Queues, fights and chaos in London




 




In pics: Tube shuts down completely for the first time in 13 years 


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




Underwater basil, a gull stealing a fish and the Pope in South America 






Will and Kate join Beckhams at Wimbledon




 




Celebrities relax as they watch the action in SW19






Budget 2015: winners and losers




 




The Budget winners and losers at a glance 


Comments






Banksy holidays - the Greek crisis in graffiti




 




The Greek public voted against austerity in its general election in January 
  and in the referendum in early July. Emotions are running high and the 
  locals are expressing their feelings on the walls of their cities.






SDCC2015 begins




 




In pics: Cosplayers descend on San Diego as Comic-con begins


Comments






Celebrity Sightings




 




Starring: Cressida Bonas, Cara Delevingne and Ella Eyre









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»










Britons told to leave Tunisia amid attack fears











#TubeStrike: How the internet reacted











Ducks invade pitch during friendly











Murray v Federer - their rivalry by numbers











'My dad doesn't want to be in Syria with IS'











Dramatic high-speed car chase



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 









            Loading
        



































News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Asa Bennett: How well off are London's tube drivers and why are they striking?
Tube strike update: Travel chaos expected all day Thursday in London: live
Pope rebukes Bolivia's President Evo Morales for gift of crucifix mounted on hammer and sickle
Homeless boy using McDonald’s light to do homework proves inspirational
Giant heart spotted on Pluto in closest ever pictures of dwarf planet




US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
Rhino poachers shot dead in Kruger National Park
Second heatwave could be hottest ever
Heatwave: staff should be sent home if workplace gets hotter than 30C - Labour MP




Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93 - latest reaction
Skegness fairground ride collapses
How two people found love thanks to Mad Max
US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Summer Recipes




 




                                Heston Blumenthal's perfect summer cocktail recipe



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































