Barack Obama's remarks on Charleston church shooting - Telegraph
Barack Obama's remarks on Charleston church shooting - Telegraph
























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Friday 10 July 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
North America»
USA











Barack Obama's remarks on Charleston church shooting

Transcript of Barack Obama's comments from the White House on June 18, 2015 
  after nine people were killed at Emmanuel AME church in Charleston, South 
  Carolina 

















Photo: AFP/GETTY









 



6:13PM BST 18 Jun 2015
 


 This morning, I spoke with and Vice President Biden spoke with Mayor Joe Riley and other leaders at Charleston to express our deep sorrow over the senseless murders that took place last night.   Michelle and I know several members of Emanuel AME Church. We knew their pastor, Reverend Clementa Pinckney, who, along with eight others, gathered in prayer and fellow ship and was murdered last night, and to say our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families and their community doesn't say enough to convey the heartache and the sadness and the anger that we feel.   Any death of this sort is a tragedy. Any shooting involving multiple victims is a tragedy. There is something particularly heartbreaking about a death happening in a place in which we seek solace and we seek peace, in a place of worship.   Mother Emanuel is, in fact, more than a church. This is a place of worship that was founded by African Americans seeking liberty. This is a church that was burned to the ground because its worshipers worked to end slavery.   When there were laws banning all-black church gatherings, they conducted church services in secret. When there was a nonviolent movement to bring our country in closer line with our highest ideals, some of our brightest leaders spoke and led marches from this church's steps.   This is a sacred place in the history of Charleston and in the history of America.   The FBI is now on the scene with local police, and more of the bureau's best are on their way to join them. The attorney general has announced plans for the FBI to open a hate crime investigation. We understand that the suspect is in custody, and I'll let the best of law enforcement do its work to make sure that justice is served.   Until the investigation is complete, I'm necessarily constrained in terms of talking about the details of the case. But I don't need constrained about the emotions that tragedies like this raise.   I've had to make statements like this too many times. Communities like this have had to endure tragedies like this too many times.   We don't have all the facts, but we do know that once again, innocent people were killed in part because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble getting their hand on a gun.   Now is the time for mourning and for healing. But let's be clear. At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries. It doesn't happen in other places with this kind of frequency.   And it is in our power to do something about it. I say that recognizing the politics in this town foreclose a lot of those avenues right now. But it'd be wrong for us not to acknowledge it, and at some point, it's going to important for the American to come to grips with it and for us to be able to shift how we think about the issue of gun violence collectively.   The fact that this took place in a black church obviously also raises questions about a dark part of our history. This is not the first time that black churches have been attacked, and we know the hatred across races and faiths pose a particular threat to our democracy and our ideals.   The good news is I am confident that the outpouring of unity and strength and fellowship and love across Charleston today, from all races, from all faiths, from all places of worship, indicates the degree to which those old vestiges of hatred can be overcome.   That certainly was Dr. King's hope just over 50 years ago after four little girls were killed in a bombing at a black church in Birmingham, Alabama.   He said, "They lived meaningful lives, and they died nobly. They say to each of us," Dr. King said, "black and white alike, that we must substitute courage for caution. They say to us that we must be concerned not merely with who murdered them but about the system, the way of life, philosophy which produced the murders. Their death says to us that we must work passionately and unrelentingly for the realization of the American Dream.   "And if one will hold on, he will discover that God walks with him and that God is able to lift you from the fatigue of despair to the buoyancy of hope and transform dark and desolate valleys into sunlit paths of inner peace."  Reverend Pinckney and his congregation understood that spirit. Their Christian faith compelled them to reach out not just to members of their congregation or to members of their own communities but to all in need. They opened their doors to strangers who might enter a church in search of healing or redemption.   Mother Emanuel Church and its congregation have risen before from flames, from an earthquake, from other dark times to give hope to generations of Charlestonians, and with our prayers and our love and the buoyancy of hope, it will rise again now as a place of peace.   Thank you.  




     Charleston shooting: how the horror unfolded 
   




      Wednesday, June 17 
    


       9pm (local time) 
     




       A man kneels across the street from where police gather outside the Emanuel AME Church (AP) 
     


      A man enters the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church where a bible group was meeting. He sits down before opening fire killing 9 people. He flees the scene. 
    



      Thursday, June 18 
    


       6.45am (BST) 
     


      Police release a description of the suspect 
    




       7.09am (BST) 
     


      Local police chief Gregory Mullen stages a press conference declaring that 8 people died at the scene whilst a 9th died after being taken to hospital 
    




       7.10am (BST) 
     




       Reverend Clementa Pinckney is among the dead (Facebook) 
     


      Reverend Al Sharpton tweets that the church's pastor, and member of the state Senate, Reverend Clementa Pinckney is among the dead 
    




       7.11am (BST) 
     


      Jed Bush cancels a rally scheduled to take place in Charleston. 
    




       7.42am (BST) 
     


      Charleston's Mayor issues the following statement: "The only reason that someone could walk into a church and shoot people praying is out of hate. It is the most dastardly act that one could possibly imagine, and we will bring that person to justice. This is one hateful person. This is the most unspeakable and heart-breaking tragedy. People [were] in prayer on a Wednesday evening. A ritual coming together, praying and worshipping God. To have an awful person come in and shoot them is, is inexplicable." 
    




       8.12am (BST) 
     


      Nikki Haley, governor of South Carolina, says in a statement: "Michael, Rena, Nalin and I are praying for the victims and families touched by tonight's senseless tragedy at Emanuel AME Church. While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we'll never understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take the life of another. Please join us in lifting up the victims and their families with our love and prayers." 
    




       09.07am (BST) 
     


      A bomb threat is reported near the sight of the church - reporters are told to leave and the area is evacuated. 
    




       11.05am (BST) 
     




       A 'Need to Identify' poster issued by the Charleston Police Department 
     


      A photo of the suspect is released by the local police department. 
    




       11.21am (BST) 
     


      Charleston police chief Greg Mullen holds a press conference urging the public not to approach the suspect. 
    




       12.10pm (BST) 
     









      Mayor of Charleston Joesph Riley issues a statement about the horrific events. 
    




       3.04pm (BST) 
     


      More information emerges about the shooting. Sylvia Johnson says: "From my understanding the suspect came to the church and he asked for the pastor. They showed him where the pastor was. He sat next to my cousin, Rev Clementa Pinckney, throughout the entire bible study. At the conclusion of the bible study, from what I understand, they just start hearing a loud noise, it's just ringing out, and the suspect had already wounded a couple of individuals including my cousin Rev Clementa Pinckney. [One of the survivors] said he [the suspect] had reloaded five different times, and her son was trying to talk him out of doing the act of killing people. And he just said 'I have to do it... you rape our women and you're taking over our country, and you have to go'." 
    




       3.07pm (BST) 
     


      The FBI name the suspect as 21-year-old Dylaan Roof. 
    




       3.20pm (BST) 
     




       Charleston shooting suspect Dylaan Roof, 21 (EPA) 
     


      A picture emerges of Roof wearing a jacket adorned with the flags of White ruled Rhodesia and apartheid-era South Africa. 
    




       4.40pm (BST) 
     


      Amid reports from CNN and CBS, the US Attorney General Lorretta Lynch confirms that a suspect has been detained in connection with the shooting. 
    




       4.42pm (BST) 
     









      Chief Mullen confirms the news: "I am very pleased to say... we have arrested Dylan RoofHe was arrested in Shelby, NC at a traffic stop. We have detectives preparing to fly to Shelby to interview and prepare for evidence recovery." 
    




       5.35pm (BST) 
     


      President Obama speaks of his anger and pain over the shootings. 
    
















Follow @telegraphnews


































Top news galleries





Princess Charlotte's christening: official photos




 




The official pictures of Princess Charlotte's christening by the celebrated 
  photographer are released - plus all the other best pictures from a glorious 
  day at Sandringham






40 great quotes about marriage




 


 Culture


As Married at First Sight begins, Martin Chilton looks at quotes about 
  matrimony from Socrates to Sinatra


Comments






Roger Federer's top 10 bust-ups




 




In pics: As he prepares to face long-term rival Andy Murray at 
  Wimbledon, we look at the times when even the Swiss superstar lost his 
  cool...


Comments






Queues, fights and chaos in London




 




In pics: Tube shuts down completely for the first time in 13 years 


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




Underwater basil, a gull stealing a fish and the Pope in South America 






Will and Kate join Beckhams at Wimbledon




 




Celebrities relax as they watch the action in SW19






Budget 2015: winners and losers




 




The Budget winners and losers at a glance 


Comments






Banksy holidays - the Greek crisis in graffiti




 




The Greek public voted against austerity in its general election in January 
  and in the referendum in early July. Emotions are running high and the 
  locals are expressing their feelings on the walls of their cities.






SDCC2015 begins




 




In pics: Cosplayers descend on San Diego as Comic-con begins


Comments






Celebrity Sightings




 




Starring: Cressida Bonas, Cara Delevingne and Ella Eyre









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»










Britons told to leave Tunisia amid attack fears











#TubeStrike: How the internet reacted











Ducks invade pitch during friendly











Murray v Federer - their rivalry by numbers











'My dad doesn't want to be in Syria with IS'











Dramatic high-speed car chase



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 









            Loading
        



































News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Asa Bennett: How well off are London's tube drivers and why are they striking?
Tube strike update: Travel chaos expected all day Thursday in London: live
Pope rebukes Bolivia's President Evo Morales for gift of crucifix mounted on hammer and sickle
Homeless boy using McDonald’s light to do homework proves inspirational
Giant heart spotted on Pluto in closest ever pictures of dwarf planet




US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
Rhino poachers shot dead in Kruger National Park
Second heatwave could be hottest ever
Heatwave: staff should be sent home if workplace gets hotter than 30C - Labour MP




Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93 - latest reaction
Skegness fairground ride collapses
How two people found love thanks to Mad Max
US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				Summer Recipes




 




                                Heston Blumenthal's perfect summer cocktail recipe



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 



































