"Every Fiber In My Body Hurts": Charleston Church Survivor Confronts Alleged Gunman In Court - BuzzFeed News
"Every Fiber In My Body Hurts": Charleston Church Survivor Confronts Alleged Gunman In Court - BuzzFeed News









































































































































































































































































































































				Have you seen BuzzFeed English?
				
					Check it out

















BuzzFeed News












News


Buzz


Life


Quizzes


Videos



More
 


BuzzFeed Community
 Make A Post!


SECTIONS


Animals


Audio


Big Stories


Books


Business


Celebrity


DIY


Entertainment


Food


Geeky


Health


Ideas


LGBT


Music


Parents


Podcasts


Politics


Rewind


Science


Sports


Style


Tech


Travel


Weddings


Weekend


World





Advertise
Jobs
Mobile
Newsletters


              
              US Edition
              


US Edition
UK Edition
Australia
Brasil
Canada
Deutschland
Español
France
India Edition
México




About
Press
RSS
Privacy
User Terms
Ad Choices
Help
Contact
© 2015 BuzzFeed, Inc

Made in NY





Get Our App!

























NEW POST
MY FEED
DASHBOARD
FEEDS/USERS
SETTINGS
SIGN OUT

























Your Post Has Been Launched!
Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.








“Every Fiber In My Body Hurts”: Charleston Church Survivor Confronts Alleged Gunman In Court

				
				
				Family members of some of the nine people Dylann Roof is charged with shooting and killing during a Bible study group said they “forgive” him at an emotional court hearing on Friday.
				
								
			













Tasneem Nashrulla
BuzzFeed News Reporter































































View this image ›

wyff4.com


A witness to the Charleston church massacre and several family members of the victims had a dramatic and tearful encounter with the 21-year-old accused shooter at his court hearing Friday, saying they “forgive” him and that he needed to “repent” for his alleged crime. 
Sisters, mothers, husbands, daughters, and sons of the victims wept as they addressed Dylann Roof, who appeared stoic and emotionless in a holding chamber while flanked by armed guards wearing military-style vests. 
Roof is accused of entering the African Methodist Episcopal Church around 8 p.m. wearing a fanny pack, according to court records. He sat in a Bible study group for about an hour before suddenly pulling out a .45-caliber handgun, an arrest warrant states. 
At one point he stood over a witness and uttered a racial slur, according to the warrants.
“We welcomed you into Bible study with open arms,” said Felicia Sanders, the mother of the youngest victim, Tywanza Sanders. 
Felicia Sanders reportedly survived the shooting by playing dead. She also saved her granddaughter’s life by laying motionless over her body. 
“You killed some of the most beautiful people I know,” Felicia Sanders said, referring to her 26-year-old son who died while trying to save his 87-year-old aunt, Susie Jackson, who was also killed. Jackson’s cousin, Ethel Lance, was also killed in the attack. 
“Every fiber in my body hurts and I’ll never be the same,” Sanders said as she broke down crying. “He was my son; he was my hero.” 
She concluded her statement with something they always said at Bible study: “May god have mercy on you.”
Judge James Gosnell surprisingly began the proceedings by reminding people that the alleged shooter has a family too.
“Charleston is a very strong community. We have big hearts. We are a very loving community. And we are going to reach out to everyone, all victims, and we will touch them.”
“We have victims, nine of them,” Gosnell said before Roof appeared. “But we also have victims on the other side. There also victims on this young man’s side of the family. No one would have ever thrown them into the whirlwind of events that they have been thrown into.” 
He then questioned Roof, marking his first public statements after the attack.
“Is your address 10428 Garners Ferry Rd., Eastover, South Carolina?” the judge asked Roof. 
“Yes, sir,” he answered from a television screen.
“What is your age?”
“21.”
“Are you employed?”
“No, sir.”
“So you are unemployed.”
“Yes, sir.”
Gosnell could not set bond for Roof’s nine murder charges and set $1 million bond for a gun charge.
A representative from each victim’s family was given the chance to speak. 
“I just want to say I forgive you,” said the daughter of Ethel Lance, the 70-year-old sexton at the church who died in the attack. 
“I will never talk to her ever again, I will never hold her again, but I forgive you. You hurt me. You hurt other people. But I forgive you,” she said. 
Alana Simmons, the granddaughter of Rev. Daniel Simmons who died in the shooting, said, “Hate won’t win.” 
“Although my grandfather and the other victims died at the hands of hate … they lived in love,” she said. “Everyone’s plea for your soul is proof they lived and loved.”
And Anthony Thompson, the husband of 59-year-old victim Myra Thompson, also told Roof he forgave him. “I forgive you. My family forgives you,” he said as his voice broke.
He told Roof to repent, to confess, and to give his life to Christ so that “he can change you, and he can change your ways, no matter what happened to you.” 
The sister of Rev. DePayne Middleton, a victim, thanked the court for “not allowing hate to win.” 
“I am very angry,” she said, as she was overcome with grief. But she said the one thing her sister taught her was, “We are the family that love built. We have no room for hate.” 
The family of state Sen. Clementa Pinckney, the church’s reverend who also died in the attacks, did not send a representative.


3. Here is a video of the full proceedings:








Video available at: http://youtube.com/watch?v=3LwqtqdDaO8.

youtube.com


Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com!




Tasneem Nashrulla is a reporter for BuzzFeed News and is based in New York. 
	

		Contact Tasneem Nashrulla at tasneem.nashrulla@buzzfeed.com


















































More ▾






















 


Facebook Conversations







Tagged:charleston church shooting, bond hearing, charleston shooting victims, charleston shooting victims family members, depayne middleton, dylan roof, dylan storm roof, emotional bond hearing, emotional statements, ethel lance, felicia sanders, myra thompson, rev daniel simmons, south carolina shooting, tywanza sanders 


 


Facebook Conversations
















advertise


jobs


mobile


newsletter



	
	US Edition
	

US
UK
Australia
Brasil
Canada
Deutschland
Español
France
India
México






about


press


RSS


privacy


user terms


ad Choices


Help


Contact



 © 2015  BuzzFeed, Inc 






Are you sure you want to remove this item? You can\'t restore it with "Cancel" button!

No
Yes






Please wait...


Cancel








This Post Is Locked
 has been editing this post since .
Unlock and edit anyway



Uh Oh!
 took your lock at .

Refresh the post



Super Uh Oh!
Something's wrong, a mini-history of this post:


Reload the page


View Draft






What type of post are you making?

New Article
List
Breaking







Crop Image ×















Upload an Image
Crop Image
Are These Thumbnails Okay?
×




Choose a new image
Save
Save Thumbnails
Preview Thumbnails





			I know, right? Will your friends agree?
		

Close









Cancel








#{img_n_width}x#{img_n_height}





x


Email this to a friend











Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.


Please enter the CAT-CHA

Catcha question...









 

Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive.
Your email has been sent!
Get our awesome newsletter at 




BuzzFeeᴅ
7x per week







No thanks





Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later.


Great! You'll get your first email soon.

 


Share This Link























