Charleston church shooting: what we know so far - Telegraph
Charleston church shooting: what we know so far - Telegraph
























Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText








		Friday 10 July 2015















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars
Film










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
Expat
Honduras




Home»
News»
World News»
North America»
USA











Charleston church shooting: what we know so far

Everything we know about the shooting at Charleston's Emanuel African 
  Methodist Episcopal Church on Wednesday night, in which nine people have 
  been killed


















 






							By 
											Andrew Marszal

5:28PM BST 18 Jun 2015

Follow


 


 The shooting  The gunman walked into the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, at 8.16pm Wednesday local time (1.16am Thursday BST), where a bible study group was meeting.  He sat down with the group for "almost an hour", before he stood up and started shooting with a .45 calibre pistol. He then fled the scene in a black Hyundai.  • LATEST: Charleston church shooting: nine killed and suspect at large   A man kneels across the street from where police gather outside the Emanuel AME Church (Photo: AP)  Eight people were killed at the scene. One other was taken to hospital, where that person died.  After the shooting, a bomb threat was reported near the church, but police gave the all-clear soon after checks. 


   Interactive: 
  Charleston shooting map
 The gunman  Police have arrested suspect Dylan Roof, a 21-year-old from near Columbia, South Carolina.  Early on Thursday, Charleston police had put out a description of "a w/m [white male], approx 21 [years old], slender, small build, wearing a grey sweat shirt, blue jeans, timberland boots, clean shaven".  Roof was filmed on a surveillance camera, prompting police to put out the below poster:   


 At around 4.30pm local time it was reported that Roof had been arrested at a traffic stop in Shelby, North Carolina. He was reported to have been cooperative with police. 

Suspect in shooting on Calhoun St is a w/m approx 21 slender small build wearing a grey sweat shirt blue jeans timberland boots clean shaven— Charleston P.D. (@CharlestonPD) 
  June 18, 2015
 The victims  The only identified victims so far are Rev Clementa Pickney, 41, a state senator and pastor, and his sister. Both were thought to have been attending the bible study group attacked by the gunman.   Mr Pickney had long been a prominent member of South Carolina's political community, having joined the state legislature aged 23 (the youngest African-American ever to do so) and the state senate at 27. He had a wife, Jennifer, and two children - Eliana and Malana.  South Carolina senator Tim Scott tweeted his condolences for Mr Pickney: 

Heart is breaking for Charleston and South Carolina. My prayers are with Emanuel AME and Pastor Pinckney.— Tim Scott (@SenatorTimScott) 
  June 18, 2015


Tonight we stand in prayer for Pastor Pinckney and his congregation, and the families who are enduring unimaginable pain at their loss.— Tim Scott (@SenatorTimScott) 
  June 18, 2015
 A five year old boy was reportedly at the scene of the shooting, but survived by playing dead.  The motive  The gunman told his victims he "had to kill them" because "You rape our women and you're taking over our country", according to the cousin of victim Rev Clementa Pinckney, who had spoken to one of the female survivors.  Even before the gunman's professed motives were known, many were speculating that the attack was motivated by race. 


 Charleston's mayor referred to the incident as a hate crime. It is being investigated as such, meaning the FBI is involved.  Tory Fields, a member of the Charleston County Ministers Conference, told the New York Times:   It’s obvious that it’s race. What else could it be? You’ve got a white guy going into an African-American church. That’s choice. He chose to go into that church and harm those people. That’s choice.   The suspect Dylann Roof has a profile picture on his Facebook page in which he is wearing a jacket bearing the flags of apartheid-era South Africa, and white minority rule Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe).   The location  Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church has one of the largest and oldest black congregations in the South. It has its roots in the early 19th century, and the current building was built in 1891. It is considered a historically significant building, according to the National Park Service.  The shooting is around six miles from North Charleston, where Walter Scott, a black man, was shot in the back by a white policeman as he ran away. The incident, caught on camera, sparked mass protests.  Victim Rev Clementa Pickney was heavily involved in the community response to Mr Scott's death.  Mr Pickney led a prayer vigil attended by Al Sharpton. He subsequently co-sponsored this bill in the state senate requiring police to wear "body-worn cameras" - a bill recently signed into law by the state governor. 










Follow @telegraphnews


































Top news galleries





Princess Charlotte's christening: official photos




 




The official pictures of Princess Charlotte's christening by the celebrated 
  photographer are released - plus all the other best pictures from a glorious 
  day at Sandringham






40 great quotes about marriage




 


 Culture


As Married at First Sight begins, Martin Chilton looks at quotes about 
  matrimony from Socrates to Sinatra


Comments






Roger Federer's top 10 bust-ups




 




In pics: As he prepares to face long-term rival Andy Murray at 
  Wimbledon, we look at the times when even the Swiss superstar lost his 
  cool...


Comments






Queues, fights and chaos in London




 




In pics: Tube shuts down completely for the first time in 13 years 


Comments






Pictures of the day




 




Underwater basil, a gull stealing a fish and the Pope in South America 






Will and Kate join Beckhams at Wimbledon




 




Celebrities relax as they watch the action in SW19






Budget 2015: winners and losers




 




The Budget winners and losers at a glance 


Comments






Banksy holidays - the Greek crisis in graffiti




 




The Greek public voted against austerity in its general election in January 
  and in the referendum in early July. Emotions are running high and the 
  locals are expressing their feelings on the walls of their cities.






SDCC2015 begins




 




In pics: Cosplayers descend on San Diego as Comic-con begins


Comments






Celebrity Sightings




 




Starring: Cressida Bonas, Cara Delevingne and Ella Eyre









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook











Advertisement










Latest Video»










Britons told to leave Tunisia amid attack fears











#TubeStrike: How the internet reacted











Ducks invade pitch during friendly











Murray v Federer - their rivalry by numbers











'My dad doesn't want to be in Syria with IS'











Dramatic high-speed car chase



 









More from the web










Advertisement






Advertisement












More from the web 









            Loading
        



































News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Asa Bennett: How well off are London's tube drivers and why are they striking?
Tube strike update: Travel chaos expected all day Thursday in London: live
Pope rebukes Bolivia's President Evo Morales for gift of crucifix mounted on hammer and sickle
Homeless boy using McDonald’s light to do homework proves inspirational
Giant heart spotted on Pluto in closest ever pictures of dwarf planet




US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
Rhino poachers shot dead in Kruger National Park
Second heatwave could be hottest ever
Heatwave: staff should be sent home if workplace gets hotter than 30C - Labour MP




Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93 - latest reaction
Skegness fairground ride collapses
How two people found love thanks to Mad Max
US blocks Arab plan to fight Isil
Princess Charlotte christening: Royal baby christened in intimate ceremony - as it happened
















More from the web






















 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































