Charleston Church gunman Dylann Roof arrested after South Carolina shooting | Metro News 
Charleston Church gunman Dylann Roof arrested after South Carolina shooting | Metro News













This site uses cookies. By continuing, your consent is assumed. Learn more






News... but not as you know it

51.8m shares 
Menu
Home
News

UK
World
Weird
Tech


Sport

Football
Oddballs
Club Metro
Wimbledon 2015
Transfer news
Viral videos


Entertainment

Showbiz
TV
Film
Music
Gaming
Big Brother 2015
One Direction


Lifestyle

Sex
Fashion
Food
Travel


More

Blogs
Competitions
Jobs
Property


Search Metro

Follow us


 

















Charleston Church gunman arrested: Police capture Dylann Roof


Nicole Morley for Metro.co.ukThursday 18 Jun 2015 4:57 pm 











Roof has been arrested (Picture: PA)
Dylann Roof, who gunned down nine people in a prayer meeting, has been captured by police.
The 21-year-old from Lexington, South Carolina, has been arrested after an intense manhunt by officers.
Dylann Roof was identified by his own uncle Carson Cowels, 56, who recognised him on CCTV footage released by police.
Cowels said his nephew had received a gun for his birthday in April. It’s not yet known if the .45 calibre pistol was the gun used in the attack.
Dylann Roofwas identified by his uncle (Picture : ABC News)
Nine people – six women and three men were killed in the attack at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, which has strong historical links to the black community.
Church pastor Clementa Pinckney was among the victims, as was Cynthia Hurd, 54; Tywanza Sanders, 26; Sharonda Singleton, 45; Myra Thompson, 59; Ethel Lance, 70; Susie Jackson, 87; the Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., 74; and DePayne Doctor, 49.
Before opening fire on the church congregation, Roof is thought to have said: ‘You rape our women and you’re taking over our country’.
The shooting are being investigated as a hate crime.
(Picture: REUTERS/Jason Miczek)
Greg Mullen confirmed the arrest during a press conference. The Charleston Police Chief said: ‘This case could not have been cleared at quickly as it has been if not for all the investigation involved in the operation. I can’t say how grateful I am. Some of them have worked tirelessly.’
Mayor Joseph P Riley added: ‘We’ve had extraordinary cooperation. Because of all of that work, we can announce that that awful person – the terrible human being who went into a place of worship when they were playing would kill them – is in custody.’
Roof has been arrested twice previously a drugs charge and another for trespassing. It’s thought that he acted alone.
Dylann Roof was bought a pistol for his 21st birthday (Picture: PA)
MORE: ‘You rape women and take over our country’ Charleston church gunman named as Dylann Roof
MORE: Charleston shootings: A five-year-old girl survived attack by playing dead
MORE: Charleston shootings: First CCTV images of white man wanted for killing nine people at black church









More A German ethics committee wants to legalise incestVideo shows mother watching helplessly as firefighters try to rescue her childrenMan drugged girlfriend so he could keep playing PlayStationNew (Tennessee) law allows people to save pets from hot carsNothing to see here, just some sheep jumping around on hay balesBeen shopping in Co-op this week? You may have been charged TWICE

Comments 

















 
Must read 











































What's trending nowMan literally washed child's mouth out with soapMan drugged girlfriend so he could keep playing PlayStation'My skin was melting': NutriBullet blender exploded in woman's faceTragic picture of boy forced to do homework under the lights of McDonald'sA German ethics committee wants to legalise incest 

 










					YOU ARE HERE: 
					

World











Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy and Cookies
Site map
 

Your ad choices

© 2015 Associated Newspapers LimitedPowered by WordPress.com VIP





 
 








Get us in your feed
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter






































