Charleston shootings: White man kills nine after opening fire on people praying inside church | Metro News 
Charleston shootings: White man kills nine after opening fire on people praying inside church | Metro News













This site uses cookies. By continuing, your consent is assumed. Learn more






News... but not as you know it

51.8m shares 
Menu
Home
News

UK
World
Weird
Tech


Sport

Football
Oddballs
Club Metro
Wimbledon 2015
Transfer news
Viral videos


Entertainment

Showbiz
TV
Film
Music
Gaming
Big Brother 2015
One Direction


Lifestyle

Sex
Fashion
Food
Travel


More

Blogs
Competitions
Jobs
Property


Search Metro

Follow us


 

















Charleston shootings: White man kills nine after opening fire on people praying inside church


Amy Willis for Metro.co.ukThursday 18 Jun 2015 7:36 am 











The scene of the shooting last night (Picture:EPA)
A white man has opened fire on people praying inside a historic black church, killing nine people, in what has been described as a hate crime.
The man, who is believed to be in his early 20s, was said to still be at large last night.
The shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in downtown Charleston was carried out last night as the people inside took part in a prayer meeting, police said.
There are believed to be survivors, but it is not known how many, or how many were inside at the time of the shooting.
(Picture: EPA)
It was unknown whether the pastor, state Sen. Clementa Pinckney, was one of the victims.
Police Chief Greg Mullen said believed it was a hate crime, but would not elaborate.
‘The only reason that someone could walk into a church and shoot people praying is out of hate,’ said Charleston Mayor Joseph P. Riley. ‘It is the most dastardly act that one could possibly imagine, and we will bring that person to justice. … This is one hateful person.’
(Picture: EPA)
As police and the city’s mayor updated the news media, a group of pastors huddled together praying in a circle across the street.
Police moved members of the news media back away from the site due to what they called an ‘imminent’ threat. They did not release any details.
The campaign of Republican presidential hopeful Jeb Bush sent out an email saying that due to the shooting, the candidate had canceled an event planned in the city Thursday.
The Emmanuel AME church is a historic African-American church that traces its roots to 1816, when several churches split from Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal church.
One of its founders, Denmark Vesey, tried to organize a slave revolt in 1822. He was caught, and white landowners had his church burned in revenge. Parishioners worshipped underground until after the Civil War.









More A German ethics committee wants to legalise incestVideo shows mother watching helplessly as firefighters try to rescue her childrenMan drugged girlfriend so he could keep playing PlayStationNew (Tennessee) law allows people to save pets from hot carsNothing to see here, just some sheep jumping around on hay balesBeen shopping in Co-op this week? You may have been charged TWICE

Comments 

















 
Must read 











































What's trending nowMan literally washed child's mouth out with soapMan drugged girlfriend so he could keep playing PlayStation'My skin was melting': NutriBullet blender exploded in woman's faceTragic picture of boy forced to do homework under the lights of McDonald'sA German ethics committee wants to legalise incest 

 










					YOU ARE HERE: 
					

World











Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy and Cookies
Site map
 

Your ad choices

© 2015 Associated Newspapers LimitedPowered by WordPress.com VIP





 
 








Get us in your feed
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter






































