With Charleston Shooting, a Time to Stop Teaching Children About the 'History' of Racial Violence - The New York Times 



With Charleston Shooting, a Time to Stop Teaching Children About the 'History' of Racial Violence - The New York Times




Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content












                Motherlode            

|
        With Charleston Shooting, a Time to Stop Teaching Children About the ‘History’ of Racial Violence        
    



Advertisement





Search
 
Log In

 0
Settings





search sponsored by






Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles









 










 




Search

 








With Charleston Shooting, a Time to Stop Teaching Children About the ‘History’ of Racial Violence


				By KJ Dell'Antonia 
June 18, 2015 11:41 am
June 18, 2015 11:41 am
 

PhotoNoah Nicolaisen, center, reflected at a makeshift memorial in Charleston, S.C., where a gunman killed nine people Wednesday at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.Credit Travis Dove for The New York Times



In the wake of violence and tragedies, I often find myself writing about, and thinking about, how to approach the topic with my children, who may be frightened by the facts or, at an older age, by our inability to offer a satisfying explanation for why people do the terrible things they sometimes do.
In the case of the nine people killed at a church in Charleston, S.C., I’m not asking those questions.
Many people, including the Charleston police, believe race was a motive in the shooting. The Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division is joining the investigation, and says it would be working along with the F.B.I. and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of South Carolina to investigate the shooting as a hate crime.
 On that, at least, our children have already been given the basics of “why.” In what are called history lessons, often surrounding Martin Luther King Day, they learn that black people did not have the same rights as white people, that they could not drink from the same water fountains or ride in the front of the bus. Later, when older, they learn about lynchings, beatings, the bombing of a church in Birmingham, and about the legacy of slavery, segregation and fear. Racial hatred and racial violence are a familiar landscape for our children. But it’s a historical landscape, one of black-and-white news pictures and hatted figures wearing suits and ties. 
How many of your children have confidently declared to you, one way or another, that black people “used to be” treated differently by whites?
We are not, in general, good at creating a school curriculum around existing controversies: The children of the Seventies learned little about Vietnam; only the most fortunate of today’s students (those with excellent teachers) study the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan in any depth. Particularly for our youngest learners, we prefer our lessons in black and white, so to speak. But the history of black and white relations has slipped into the curriculum under false pretenses: the illusion that the civil rights movement is over, and the good guys won.
To talk to our children about what happened in Charleston, we need only tell them that those attitudes they were taught were dusty historical artifacts never went away, but only went into hiding, sometimes in plain sight. If we parents are doing our jobs right, we are already talking to our children, black, brown or white, about insidious racism, the kind that hides in our entertainment, our institutions and even in ourselves. Especially for white parents, those may be easier conversations. Terrible things may happen as a result of those hidden biases, but no one wants those things to happen. Mistakes are made.
There is no mistaking the intent of the gunman in Charleston, and even though we cannot be certain racism was among his motives, our assumptions say it all. We adults don’t believe that racial hatred is over or that race-based violence has ended. We know better. The legacy of slavery, segregation and fear extends long past the “history” our children have learned. 
The true “why” of a tragedy like the Charleston shooting will always be elusive, and that will always be frightening. For most of us, there is no understanding what went on in the mind of the man behind the gun there, just as there is no way to comprehend (and thus control) the men behind countless other recent horrors.
But when racism is part of the motive, we’ve at least given our children the framework to understand where that hatred comes from. Now, we need to admit that it isn’t reaching out from the pages of their schoolbooks. The saga of racism in this country is ongoing; we are still living that complex history. It’s a story of what “used to” happen, and what sometimes, on some terrible days, happens still.


Follow KJ Dell’Antonia on Twitter at  @KJDellAntonia or find her on Facebook and Google+.
Like what you’re reading? Get the best of Motherlode articles, links, comments and conversation, along with previews of posts to come, delivered each week to your inbox. Sign up here. 



 

 
Highlights, 
Charleston (SC), Parenting, Race and Ethnicity, School Shootings and Armed Attacks 


 


Loading...










Previous Post




				Unused Embryos: Your Questions Answered			


Next Post




				‘Inside Out': Pixar’s Convincing Argument Against Childhood Happiness			






NYTKidsCook:A Summer of Learning in the Kitchen
The Motherlode blog and Cooking are collaborating this summer on a joint project: teaching our kids to cook for themselves—and for us!  Read more »

The Kids Can Cook Too recipe collection »
Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail »

  












Foster Parent Diary


A Foster Child’s Questions: Is This My House? Is This My Home?



 















Reading Aloud to My Daughter, From Prison



 


  












When It Comes to My Son, I’m a Better Spectator Than Coach



 















A Movie Scene About Abortion, With a Message for Mother and Daughter



 


 
About

We're all living the family dynamic, as parents, as children, as siblings, uncles and aunts. At Motherlode, lead writer and editor KJ Dell’Antonia invites contributors and commenters to explore how our families affect our lives, and how the news affects our families—and all families. Join us to talk about education, child care, mealtime, sports, technology, the work-family balance and much more

E-mail KJ »
Follow @KJDellAntonia on Twitter »
Follow @NYTMotherlode on Twitter »
Follow KJ on Google+


Newsletter


Each week, we send out a newsletter containing the news and headlines that matter most to parents.
Subscribe Now
Recent Posts 



See Your Children Leading Healthy Lives? Research Suggests Parents Should Look Harder.



 

			Many children are doing less and eating more than we think they are. Read more…






Kids Cook

Kids in the Kitchen: Strawberry-Rhubarb Ice Cream With a Caramel Swirl



 

			A serious cooking challenge involving custard and caramel means both student and teacher learn.Read more…






Foster Parent Diary

A Foster Child’s Questions: Is This My House? Is This My Home?



 

			As a new foster parent, it is admittedly easy to dwell on the hard stuff. But I can’t let it overshadow the joy. Read more…





The Youngest Mom in the Office



 

			A young pregnancy in an intense office means navigating silent judgement while making some unexpected changes.Read more…





Reading Aloud to My Daughter, From Prison



 

			The picture books I read and recorded for my daughter from prison turned out to be a lifeline for my whole family—and me.Read more…


Motherlode's Artist-in-Residence



The Motherlode blog welcomes our new artist-in-residence, illustrator Abigail Gray Swartz. 
 Follow her on Twitter and on  Instagram: @graydaystudio. See more of her work on Etsy.
Stuff I Tagged to Read from TwitterFavorites on Twitter
 

Archive 
Select Month
 July 2015 
 June 2015 
 May 2015 
 April 2015 
 March 2015 
 February 2015 
 January 2015 
 December 2014 
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 


 







Advertisement







Go to Home Page »

Site Index








News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Home & Garden


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


TV Listings


Blogs


Cartoons


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Premier



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2015

 The New York Times Company




Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 











