Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting | whotv.com 
Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting | whotv.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Six 

WHO-HD Channel 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






whotv.com

 Menu

News
Mega Doppler-S
Sports
On 13
Contests
Events




Weather 

75°







75°


Low 63°
High 78°





Fri


					71°  83°
					


Sat


					72°  90°
					


Sun


					71°  92°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting

Posted 9:06 am, June 18, 2015, by Tribune Media Wire and CNN 

FacebookTwitterGoogleEmailRedditTumblr 


CHARLESTON, S.C. — Dylann Roof, 21, of Lexington, South Carolina, is the suspect in Wednesday’s deadly shooting at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, the Charleston police said Thursday. He may be driving a black Hyundai with vehicle tag LGF330, police said.
The nine shooting victims at Charleston’s Emanuel AME Church “were killed because they were black,” Charleston police spokesman Charles Francis told CNN’s Nick Valencia on Thursday. Francis said this after Valencia asked them what is leading authorities to investigate the shooting as a hate crime.
A woman who survived the shooting says the gunman said he was letting her live so that she could tell people what happened, Charleston NAACP President Dot Scott told CNN.
According to The Post and Courier, Roof is currently out on bond in connection with multiple recent arrests on drug and trespassing charges.
Police released a flier Thursday morning with details of the suspect in the attack on the historic African-American church as they appealed for help to track him down as quickly as possible.
“The following subject is wanted for the shooting that occured in Charleston at the Emanuel AME Church. Subject is Dylann Storm Roof w/m 4/3/1994 5’9″ 120 lbs. The subject should be driving a 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS, SC registration LGF330. The vehicle is dark-colored. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous and caution should be used if seen. ”
 
Charleston Police Chief Gregory Mullen told a news conference that officers “have obtained surveillance videos of the suspect in this case and a suspect vehicle.”
The uncle of the suspect told Reuters he recognized his nephew in the photo released by police. He also said Roof received a .45 caliber pistol as a birthday present in April.
Mullen emphasized the suspect is “a very dangerous individual” and said “he should not be approached by anyone.”
Any people who recognize the suspect or spots the vehicle should alert law enforcement, he said, rather than trying to follow themselves.
Woman spared by shooter to give account?
A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.
Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night. Scott added that she didn’t know if the survivor had ended up at the hospital or being questioned by police.
Because of the church’s historic significance, it is not unusual for visitors, whether white or black, to visit it, Scott said. She said she’d had no indication that any children were among the victims.
Mullen told the news conference the suspect had been in the church attending a meeting that was going on — and “stayed there almost an hour with the group before the actual event.”
But he declined to comment on whether the suspect had let one woman escape.
‘Distinctive’ license plate
The suspect was seen leaving the church in a black four-door sedan, the flier says. “The vehicle you will see has a very distinctive front license plate,” Mullen added.
He appealed for the media to help in circulating the suspect’s image and for the public to be vigilant. The clean-shaven man pictured wears a gray sweatshirt over a white T-shirt, blue jeans and Timberland boots.
“No one in this community will ever forget this night and as a result of this and because of the pain and the hurt this individual has caused this entire community, the law enforcement agents are committed and we will catch this individual,” Mullen said.
Charleston Mayor Joe Riley echoed that sentiment, saying everything must be done to find a culprit he described as “somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”
The man is a “no-good, horrible person” who must be taken into custody as soon as possible, he said. “Of course we will make sure he pays the price for this horrible act.”
Wednesday night’s attack at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church is being investigated as a hate crime. All the victims, who include the church’s pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, were black. Six of those killed were female and three male.



Filed in: News 













 






 Join Channel 13 News on Facebook!
Join the conversation… have fun…win prizes!







 

 


Popular



Adventureland to Build New Roller Coaster in 2016



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Feds Raid Home of Subway Spokesman Jared Fogle in Child Pornography Investigation



Viral Facebook Post About Veteran And Service Dog May Not Be Completely True







 


Latest News



Old Fashioned Place to Give Birth Becomes New Trend



Three Iowa Vietnam Veterans Reflect On Their Experiences



Father Accused of Killing Three-year-old Daughter



Government Data Breach Impacted More Than 20 Million





 












News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina


News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call a Hate Crime


News

Charleston Church Shooting: Questions Swirl Around Suspect Dylann Roof


News

Multiple Fatalities at Church Shooting in Downtown Charleston, S.C.


News

Ted Cruz Talks Charleston Shooting While in Johnston



 


News

Charleston Shooting Victim Funerals Begin, As Confederate Flag Falls in Other States


News

Local Churches Holding Prayer Vigils Friday in Wake of S.C. Shooting


News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images of Roof


News

South Carolina Lawmakers to Debate Confederate Flag Monday


News

Officer Charged with Murder After Video Shows him Shooting Man in Back



 


News

Watch President Obama Sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at Eulogy for Reverend Killed in Charleston Shooting


News

Obama Set to Eulogize Pastor in Charleston Shooting


News

South Carolina Shooting: Officer Charged and Fired; Protesters Demand Justice






 





Mobile Apps13WarnMe Weather iPhone App
Android App
News iPhone & iPad App
Severe Weather Android App
Severe Weather iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1801 Grand Ave. Des Moines, IA 50309  •
		Copyright © 2015, WHO		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “whotv.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,320 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















