Girl survived Charleston Church shooting by playing dead gunman is named Dylann Roof | Metro News 
Girl survived Charleston Church shooting by playing dead gunman is named Dylann Roof | Metro News













This site uses cookies. By continuing, your consent is assumed. Learn more






News... but not as you know it

51.8m shares 
Menu
Home
News

UK
World
Weird
Tech


Sport

Football
Oddballs
Club Metro
Wimbledon 2015
Transfer news
Viral videos


Entertainment

Showbiz
TV
Film
Music
Gaming
Big Brother 2015
One Direction


Lifestyle

Sex
Fashion
Food
Travel


More

Blogs
Competitions
Jobs
Property


Search Metro

Follow us


 

















Charleston shootings: A five-year-old girl survived attack by playing dead


Nicole Morley for Metro.co.ukThursday 18 Jun 2015 3:58 pm 











A girl is said to have survived the attack by playing dead (Picture: EPA/RICHARD ELLIS)
Even the most level-headed adults would freeze if faced with a gun-wielding murderer.
But a super smart five-year-old girl managed to survive the Charleston Church shooting by playing dead, suggests a local news station.
A slim white gunman named by local media as 21-year-old Dylann Roof opened fire and killed nine people during a prayer session in the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church – one of the oldest historically black churches in America.
Roof’s uncle Carson Cowels, 56, reported him after he recognised his nephew on the CCTV footage released by police.
He said Roof received a gun as a birthday present for his 21st in April. A.45 calibre pistol. It’s not yet known if it was the same gun used in the attack – which is being investigated as a hate crime.
A suspect which police are searching for (Picture: Reuters)
 
Relatives of the girl said to have survived the attack told ABC News 4 – a station based in Charleston – that the youngster had dodged the killer by keeping quiet and pretending to be dead.
It’s thought that she’s currently recovering from the ordeal in the nearby Medical University of South Carolina hospital.
Journalist Rob Mallia, who is reporting from the scene tweeted: ‘Family says 5 year old survived by playing dead. Child resting @MUSChealth @ABCNews4.’
An intense manhunt in underway to locate Roof, from Lexington. Police are now surrounding his mother’s house, but it has not been confirmed if he is inside.
A local newspaper suggests he is currently on bail for drugs charges, while court records say he was charged with trespassing in April.
The gunman apparently sat in a religious meeting for an hour before gunning down members of the congregation.
Among the dead are six women and three men, including Reverend Clementa C Pinckney.






































MORE: Charleston shootings: First CCTV images of white man wanted for killing nine people at black church
MORE: Charleston shootings: White man kills nine after opening fire on people praying inside church









More A German ethics committee wants to legalise incestVideo shows mother watching helplessly as firefighters try to rescue her childrenMan drugged girlfriend so he could keep playing PlayStationNew (Tennessee) law allows people to save pets from hot carsNothing to see here, just some sheep jumping around on hay balesBeen shopping in Co-op this week? You may have been charged TWICE

Comments 

















 
Must read 











































What's trending nowMan literally washed child's mouth out with soapMan drugged girlfriend so he could keep playing PlayStation'My skin was melting': NutriBullet blender exploded in woman's faceTragic picture of boy forced to do homework under the lights of McDonald'sA German ethics committee wants to legalise incest 

 










					YOU ARE HERE: 
					

World











Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy and Cookies
Site map
 

Your ad choices

© 2015 Associated Newspapers LimitedPowered by WordPress.com VIP





 
 








Get us in your feed
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter






































