Dylann Roof's friend took gun during 'crazy' bigoted rant - NY Daily News

Dylann Roof's friend took gun during 'crazy' bigoted rant - NY Daily News




 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S.     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs     


  
  









Dylann Storm Roof's friend took gun away during 'crazy' bigoted rant 2 weeks before Charleston church shooting

                                BY
                                                                    
                                        Edgar Sandoval
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Rachelle Blidner
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Meg Wagner
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Bill Hutchinson
                                    

NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Published: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 10:54 AM
Updated: Friday, June 19, 2015, 10:30 AM

A
A
A







Share this URL











     

	Mass-murdering racist Dylann Roof prepared for the deadly rampage at a black South Carolina church by honing his killing skills with a 21st birthday present from his father — a .45-caliber handgun.

	A troubled portrait of Roof emerged as the shocked nation mourned nine people — ranging from 26 to 87 — gunned down because of their race at a prayer meeting.

	In the aftermath of Wednesday night’s massacre at the historic Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, Roof’s own uncle called him “a monster.”

SUSPECTED CHARLESTON CHURCH GUNMAN DYLANN STORM ROOF CAUGHT
     Chuck Burton/AP Suspected gunman Dylann Storm Roof, who opened fire in South Carolina church Wednesday was a quiet person got a gun for his 21st birthday, his uncle said.    Chuck Burton/AP Roof got a gun for his 21st birthday in April and bragged last week about his plans to "kill a bunch of people," sources said    JASON MICZEK/REUTERS Roof got a gun for his 21st birthday in April and bragged last week about his plans to "kill a bunch of people," sources said    Previous Next       Enlarge  



TIMELINE: HOW PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS RESPONDED TO 10 MASS SHOOTINGS SINCE TAKING OFFICE IN 2009

	A friend, Joseph Meek, 20, told the Daily News he had taken the .45 Glock away from Roof two weeks ago after Roof went on a drunken, bigoted rant about segregation and killing people.

	“He said he was planning for about six months to do something crazy,” said Meek, who is white. “He wanted it to be segregated. He wanted it to be white with the white, black with the black. All the races segregated.

	“He wanted to do something big, like the Trayvon Martin case,” said Meek, referring to the unarmed black teen gunned down in 2012 in Florida by neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman. “He was upset about it. It made him mad.”
    Dylann Roof was arrested in North Carolina the morning after the massacre.   



	Meek said he took the gun away but, prompted by his own legal troubles, returned it the next day.

	“I only took it away because he was drunk. I didn’t take him seriously,” Meek said. “I do feel a little guilty because I could have let someone know.”

	He said he called the FBI on Thursday once surveillance photos of Roof were made public. The call helped agents identify Roof.

	Roof’s uncle, Carson Cowles, said the suspect’s dad, Ben Roof, gave him the pistol for his 21st birthday in April — a present that delighted the shy young man with a bowl haircut.

	Cowles told The News he believed it was the first gun Dylann ever possessed. He last spoke to him a day after he got the pistol, recalling his nephew barely could put down the firearm to talk.

	“He said, ‘I got to go, I’m outside shooting target practice right now,’ ” Cowles said. “He sounded happy about it.”
   Facebook Suspect Dylann Roof wearing flags of Rhodesia and Apartheid-era South Africa in his Facebook profile picture.   



	Cowles said he and his family were racking their brains to determine how they missed the red flags leading up to the Charleston bloodbath.

REV. CLEMENTA PINCKNEY KILLED IN CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE

	A survivor of the church shooting spree told cops that as Roof unleashed a barrage of bullets, he made it clear he was there to kill black people, saying, “You rape our women and are taking over our country.”
   Andy McMillan/Getty Images Suspect Dylann Roof boarding a plane at Shelby-Cleveland County Regional Airport for extradition back to Charleston, South Carolina.   



	Cowles said that while Roof was quiet and kept to himself, he was never diagnosed with mental illness or, as far as he was aware, harbored hate for blacks.

	“My family is nothing like this,” Cowles told The News. “We could’ve never seen anything like this — no way, shape or form.”
   Chuck Burton/AP Shooting suspect Dylann Roof in custody Thursday. An old friend says Roof was obsessed with Trayvon Martin and drunkenly rambled about racial segregation.   



TWITTER USERS SEEK JUSTICE AFTER CHARLESTON CHURCH SHOOTING

	On Thursday, Cowles was calling for his nephew’s hide.

	“He’s a monster . . . and he needs to pay for what he’s done,” Cowles said.

	Reached by The News in Columbia, S.C., Thursday, Roof’s grandfather, Joe Roof, would only describe Dylann as “a great grandkid.”
              View Gallery  Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church re-opens for services  



	Another friend, Dalton Tyler, 20, said Roof talked openly about wanting segregation and his desire to start a civil war. He recalled Roof once yelling a racial slur and threatening a black woman for merely looking at him.

	“He told her, ‘What the f--k you looking at, n----r! I’ll shoot your ass,’ ” Tyler told The News.

	On his Facebook page, Roof posted more hints that he hated black people. In a profile photo, he posed scowling and wearing a black jacket emblazoned with an apartheid-era South African flag and another representing the former white supremacist African state of Rhodesia, which is now Zimbabwe.

	Another photo posted to social media shows Roof sitting on the hood of his black 2000 Hyundai Elantra GS with a Confederate flag plate on the front bumper.

FULL COVERAGE OF CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE
     Dylann Roof leans on a car with a Confederate States of America license plate in a Facebook photo.    Grace Beahm/AP Pastor and State Sen. Clementa Pinckney was among the nine victims.    Previous Next      Enlarge  



	Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty Law Center civil rights group, said Roof’s name never crossed their radar. It remained unclear whether Roof had links to any of the 16 known white supremacist organizations in South Carolina.

	Records obtained by The News showed Roof had several run-ins with the law. He was arrested Feb. 28 at Columbia’s Columbiana Centre shopping mall on drug charges. A cop confronted Roof, who was dressed in all black, because several mall employees complained he was asking bizarre questions, such as, “What time do you close?” and “How many associates are working?”

	Roof nervously explained that he was asking the questions because his parents wanted him to get a job. He was arrested after a search turned up a bottle containing strips of Suboxone, a narcotic used to treat opiate addiction, which he didn’t have a prescription for.
     RANDALL HILL/REUTERS Flowers for the victims of Wednesday's shootings are laid near a police barricade in Charleston.    HANDOUT/REUTERS Roof opened fire on the church Wednesday night after attending a prayer service with congregants, authorities say.    Matthew Fortner/AP Charleston police officers search for a shooting suspect outside the Emanuel AME Church, in downtown Charleston.    Charleston Police Department Roof fled the church after the Wednesday night massacre, police said.    facebook In his Facebook profile picture, Roof wears a black jacket emblazoned jacket with the flags of apartheid-era South Africa and Rhodesia.    Previous Next         Enlarge  



	Roof, who had been banned from the mall for a year, was arrested for trespassing there on April 26 when cops caught him in the parking lot. The mall then put him on a three-year ban.

	Records also show that Roof didn’t have much of an education. He attended White Knoll High School in Lexington, S.C., but dropped out after repeating the ninth grade.

	“He barely attended school here,” a school official told The News. “He was in and out.”

ON A MOBILE DEVICE?WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.

Edgar Sandoval reported from Charleston, S.C.
mwagner@nydailynews.com
   Related Stories  Suspected Charleston church gunman Dylann Storm Roof caught       Church massacre victim Clementa Pinckney mourned across U.S.       Twitter users seek justice after Charleston church shooting       Charleston photographer arrested near church shooting     
Tags:

charleston church massacre
                                ,                            

dylann roof




 




 




 








 

 
 
 

Comments

Post A Comment
[ Discussion Guidelines]

To Post Comments Sign In

 




   

  
   

  

  

  
   

   

   

  Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   Ex-Army major, wife convicted of abusing 3 N.J. foster kids     2   World's scariest haunted house has 24,000-person wait list     3   Subway pitchman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child porn bust     4   Florida man breaks ex-wife's sex toy in half: cops     5   Dad charged after tossing baby into Conn. river: police     6   Fla. woman took selfies as she had sex with pit bull: cops     7   SEE IT: Woman’s video about N.C. shark attacks goes viral     8   Texas man dies after shooting firework off chest      9   Man mocked alligator before fatal attack in Texas bayou     10   N.J. teens run down geese in gruesome video, face charges         1   Plane crash in Montana cemetery kills seven kids     2   10 Facebooks hidden tricks you probably didn't know about      3   Philly educator, fired for being gay, appeals to Pope     4   S.C. Gov. Nikki Haley gets FB slammed over Confederate flag     5   ‘Ghostbusters’ crew help cops collar assault suspect     6   United pilot flushed bullets down plane’s toilet     7   Robber caught after leaving pay stub at crime scene     8   Teen missing after flying to Morocco for online boyfriend     9   New Jersey man murdered 7 people in span of weeks: officials     10   Los Angeles police shoot, wound man during fight for Taser        

   


News Video




 


PC Richard and Son

 













Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


    
  





