Charleston photographer arrested near church shooting - NY Daily News

Charleston photographer arrested near church shooting - NY Daily News




 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S.     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs     


  
  









Charleston photographer arrested near scene of church shooting: 'I was detained as a suspect'

                                BY
                                                                    
                                        Jason Silverstein
                                    

NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Published: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 5:35 AM
Updated: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 7:58 AM

A
A
A







Share this URL











   WCSC-TV Charleston, S.C., photographer Austin Rich was arrested for the shooting at AME Church before being released.   

	A Charleston, S.C., photographer unwittingly became part of the city’s horror story Wednesday night, getting publicly arrested in the midst of the manhunt for the suspect who shot nine people dead at a black church.

EMANUEL AME CHURCH HAS LONG HISTORY, TIES TO SLAVE REBELLION

	Austin Rich was cuffed near the scene of the massacre, causing a brief social media uproar as some believed him to be the murderous madman. Local media never identified him as a suspect.

	Rich was released before midnight, and the real suspect remains on the run early Thursday morning.
   Austin Rich/via Facebook Rich had been taking pictures at a gas station near the church.   



	“Tonight as many of you may already know I was detained as a suspect for the shooting that took place In downtown Charleston,” Rich wrote in a Facebook post after his release.

	“I want to assure everyone that I am safe and innocent.”

	White was taking pictures at a gas station close to the Mother Emanuel AME Church when news of the bloodbath broke, he said.

CHARLESTON CHURCH KILLER WENT ON RACIST RANT BEFORE SHOOTING

	He wrote on Facebook that he was “mistaken as the shooter because of my grey t-shirt” —a detail that matched the description of the suspect.

	“The officers rushed over to handcuff me,” he wrote.

FULL COVERAGE OF CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE

“I understand that the officers were simply doing their job and they did it well,” he added, noting he holds no grudge over the arrest.

	Rich said he was interviewing people for a daily photo project called “1,000 Days of Talking With Strangers,” similar to Brandon Stanton’s popular “Humans of New York” project, which Rich has cited as an influence.
  Police just showed up with a man in handcuffs and took him inside the hotel. #chsnews pic.twitter.com/3Qi0YmSeGC— CS Tyson (@SamInteractive) June 18, 2015
 

  @CoralNews Does that officer actually have his arm around this murderer? Wow— rogetta (@rogtilford) June 18, 2015
 



	Rich did not immediately respond to requests for comment, and Charleston police have not commented on his arrest.

   @mikeliggett via Twitter Police in Charleston, S.C., respond to the fatal shooting of nine people at a black church in a suspected hate crime Wednesday night.   



	The shooting at the church, which calls itself the oldest AME church in the South, is reportedly one of the worst mass shootings in South Carolina’s history. Police described the suspect as a white, blond male in his early 20s, who was wearing a grey sweatshirt and blue jeans.

              View Gallery  Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church re-opens for services  



	Follow @jaysunsilver
jsilverstein@nydailynews.com
   Related Stories  Blaze smokes out pot stash       Busted! On-cam politician killer arrested in Philippines: cops       Photographer sues Dept. of Homeland Security over arrest     
Tags:

charleston church massacre




 




 




 








 

 
 
 

Comments

Post A Comment
[ Discussion Guidelines]

To Post Comments Sign In

 




   

  
   

  

  

  
   

   

   

  Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   Ex-Army major, wife convicted of abusing 3 N.J. foster kids     2   World's scariest haunted house has 24,000-person wait list     3   Subway pitchman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child porn bust     4   Florida man breaks ex-wife's sex toy in half: cops     5   Dad charged after tossing baby into Conn. river: police     6   Fla. woman took selfies as she had sex with pit bull: cops     7   SEE IT: Woman’s video about N.C. shark attacks goes viral     8   Texas man dies after shooting firework off chest      9   N.J. teens run down geese in gruesome video, face charges     10   Man mocked alligator before fatal attack in Texas bayou         1   Plane crash in Montana cemetery kills seven kids     2   10 Facebooks hidden tricks you probably didn't know about      3   Philly educator, fired for being gay, appeals to Pope     4   S.C. Gov. Nikki Haley gets FB slammed over Confederate flag     5   ‘Ghostbusters’ crew help cops collar assault suspect     6   United pilot flushed bullets down plane’s toilet     7   Robber caught after leaving pay stub at crime scene     8   Teen missing after flying to Morocco for online boyfriend     9   New Jersey man murdered 7 people in span of weeks: officials     10   Los Angeles police shoot, wound man during fight for Taser        

   


News Video




 


PC Richard and Son

 













Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


    
  





