NYC leaders appalled by Charleston church shooting - NY Daily News

NYC leaders appalled by Charleston church shooting - NY Daily News




 














 DAILY NEWS   New York    News  Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          NYC Crime     Bronx     Brooklyn     Queens     Uptown     Education     Weather     Obituaries     New York Pics     DN Photographers     


  
  









NYC leaders appalled by Charleston church shooting: 'Absolutely troubling and heart-wrenching'

                                BY
                                                                    
                                        Erin Durkin
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Erik Badia
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Molly Crane-newman
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Rich Schapiro
                                    
                                                                        ,                                                                    
                                        Chris Sommerfeldt
                                    

NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Published: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 12:21 PM
Updated: Thursday, June 18, 2015, 11:58 PM

A
A
A







Share this URL











   Kendall Rodriguez/Kendall Rodriguez 'This is an absolutely troubling and heart-wrenching moment,' Mayor de Blasio said of Wednesday night's massacre at a South Carolina church.   

	New York politicians, clergy and civil rights leaders expressed shock and outrage Thursday over the South Carolina church massacre.

	“This is an absolutely troubling and heart-wrenching moment,” Mayor de Blasio said.

	“The fact is that nine innocent lives are lost.”

FULL COVERAGE OF CHARLESTON CHURCH MASSACRE

	“Our prayers are with the families of those who are lost,” he added. “Our prayers are with the members of that church and all of the people of Charleston today.”               View Gallery  Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church re-opens for services  

	The Rev. Al Sharpton called the mass killing “one of the most horrendous acts that I have ever seen.”

SUSPECTED GUNMAN DYLANN ROOF GOT GUN FOR 21ST BIRTHDAY

	“To walk into a church and kill nine people in a place that should be sacred is a new low in hate and atrocities in this country,” Sharpton said in a news conference at the National Action Network’s Harlem headquarters. “None of us are safe if we cannot go to a church for Bible study.”

	Sharpton said he had been close with one of the victims — State Sen. Clementa Pinckney.

	Pinckney, 41, was also the pastor of the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, where authorities say gunman Dylann Roof fatally shot nine people Wednesday night.      RANDALL HILL/REUTERS The Rev. Clementa Pinckney, also a South Carolina state senator, was among the victims. In New York, the Rev. Al Sharpton said he'd been friends with Pinckney.    Rainier Ehrhardt/AP South Carolina State Sen. Vincent Sheheen gets emotional Thursday as he sits next to the draped desk of Pinckney at the statehouse in Columbia, S.C.    Previous Next      Enlarge  

	“When I was there in April he joined our prayer vigil for Walter Scott who was killed by police,” Sharpton said.

	The Rev. Reginald Lee Bachus, associate pastor at the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, said that the community was rocked by the news of the shooting.

SUSPECTED CHARLESTON CHURCH GUNMAN DYLANN STORM ROOF CAUGHT

	"This is a sad day — it used to be that the house of the Lord was our only sanctuary," he said. "I think it's horrific and we are absolutely enraged and just devastated that this would happen.

	"I believe this was an attack on Christianity, as well as an attack on African-Americans," Bachus added.      

	The mass murder was on the minds of the parishioners and workers streaming inside the food pantry at the Allen A.M.E. Church in Jamaica, Queens.

	“That wasn't God, that was Satan,” said Pauline Griffin, 62, a pantry volunteer. “We're not safe in the church, not safe in our homes, not safe outside. We should be somewhere where you can have a safe haven.”

PRESIDENT OBAMA ADDRESSES CHARLESTON SHOOTING 

	Detectives from the NYPD's Counter Terrorism Unit have been in contact with Charleston police.    RICHARD ELLIS/EPA Police were seen securing Calhoun St. where a gunman opened fire on a prayer meeting killing nine people at historic Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church.   

	The NYPD has also reached out to black churches in the city to advise them to call police if they have any concerns or see something suspicious, the source said.

	“The NYPD’s prayers are with the victims and the survivors of last night’s terrible shooting in Charleston,” Police Commissioner Bill Bratton tweeted Thursday.

	It doesn’t appear that the shooting had any connection to terror groups, a high-ranking police source said.

	Local cops have reached out to black churches in the city to advise them to call police if they have any concerns or see something suspicious, the source said. 

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.  With Thomas Tracy
   Related Stories  Dylann Roof wore white supremacist flag patches on jacket       Suspected Charleston church gunman Dylann Storm Roof caught       Church massacre victim Clementa Pinckney mourned across U.S.       Twitter users seek justice after Charleston church shooting       Suspected Charleston church gunman Dylann Storm Roof caught     
Tags:

charleston church massacre
                                ,                            

bill de blasio
                                ,                            

dylann roof




 




 




 








 

 
 
 

Comments

Post A Comment
[ Discussion Guidelines]

To Post Comments Sign In

 




   

  
   

 



  
   

 New York Video




   

  Most Popular     Most Read   Most Shared      1   Man fatally shot in Bronx with daughter in his arms: cops     2   Manager at Manhattan Panera punches female employee      3   Man shot in head while driving in Bronx, critically injured     4   VIDEO: Man fatally shot near Bronx store: police      5   Bronx dad shot dead while holding baby was gang member     6   Mom, 22, found murdered in Bronx park, ex-boyfriend charged     7   Corrections officer ties busted for selling drugs: cops     8   Police use social media to bust 13 gang members in Queens     9   Pregnant woman shot in mouth, stomach during Bronx argument     10   Low-level crime suspects to get bail relief under Blaz plan         1   Stuy High teen killed by drunk      2   A Christmas challenge     3   City creates first 20 mph Slow Zone to reduce accidents     4   For Clinton aide, foster mom's her chief role     5   Koran burner fired from his job at NJ Transit     6   'Abysmal' attendance record are latest woes for Assemblywoman Ann-Margaret Carrozza     7   NYCHA removes nearly 8 miles of scaffolding from housing     8   New York schools ditching Pearson test-making firm     9   Top down quiz: Recognize these 8 spots around New York City?     10   Ex-paralegal testifies he snooped for Sen. John Sampson        

  

   

  Daily News Pix Manhattan      From 1939 Times Square to the Towers in the 90's, the Daily News has the legendary photos of NYC.    Buy a Print    

 


PC Richard and Son

 













Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


    
  





