Prayer Gathering Held in Des Moines After Charleston Church Shooting | whotv.com 
Prayer Gathering Held in Des Moines After Charleston Church Shooting | whotv.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Six 

WHO-HD Channel 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






whotv.com

 Menu

News
Mega Doppler-S
Sports
On 13
Contests
Events




Weather 

75°







75°


Low 63°
High 78°





Fri


					71°  83°
					


Sat


					72°  90°
					


Sun


					71°  92°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Prayer Gathering Held in Des Moines After Charleston Church Shooting

Posted 5:33 am, June 19, 2015, by Michael DaSilva, Updated at 05:40am, June 19, 2015 

FacebookTwitterGoogleEmailRedditTumblr 





DES MOINES, Iowa — In the wake of the tragic and horrific shooting in Charleston, South Carolina, a prayer gathering was held here in Des Moines at Faith Missionary Baptist Church Thursday.
It was an emotional meeting, as a group of about 20 people gathered to pray, talk, and listen to one another. Those in attendance discussed issues ranging from violence in our culture to the various different forms of racism in society. The people at the gathering say they take what happened in South Carolina personally, saying it could have happened here in this church.
Shock, anger, frustration, and an overwhelming sadness; that’s what youth minister Arnold Woods III says he feels about the shooting in Charleston. Woods III telling Channel 13 News, “One of the biggest reasons for sadness is because it happened at a church. Church is some place that you’re supposed to feel safe and welcome and not have to deal with thinking about violence or potentially being killed or hurt in any way.”
Social justice activist and organizer Avery Jackson that the prayer meeting and discussion was important to “Allow us to properly process our emotions after experiencing such a tragedy because it does take an emotional toll, especially on black people and all we’ve been seen in the media, and all the attacks on black bodies this year. We want to make sure that we provide a space where people can properly process and their existence can be affirmed.”
At the prayer gathering, deacons and elders spoke of the civil rights movement and struggles through the years. The youth spoke of what it means to see acts of racism covered in the social media age. And amid the discussion the local president of the NAACP even prayed for the soul of the perpetrator of the crime, saying his faith compels him to do so.
Arnold Woods Jr. telling Channel 13 News, “From a faith based perspective, as Christians…It’s our responsibility to pray for our enemies as well as our friends…we’re taught to hate the sin, but love the sinner.” Woods Jr. continued, saying, “God is all about love. That is Him. That is the essence of God from my perspective, so from my perspective we are always praying for those who would do all against us and we pray that they will turn from their wicked ways.”



Filed in: News Topics: Charleston Church Shooting, church, Des Moines, Iowa 













 






 Channel 13 is on Instagram!
Join the fun.  Share with us!







 

 


Popular



Adventureland to Build New Roller Coaster in 2016



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Feds Raid Home of Subway Spokesman Jared Fogle in Child Pornography Investigation



Viral Facebook Post About Veteran And Service Dog May Not Be Completely True







 


Latest News



Old Fashioned Place to Give Birth Becomes New Trend



Three Iowa Vietnam Veterans Reflect On Their Experiences



Father Accused of Killing Three-year-old Daughter



Government Data Breach Impacted More Than 20 Million





 












News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina


News

Multiple Fatalities at Church Shooting in Downtown Charleston, S.C.


News

No Plans for Tighter Security at Des Moines Church Following Charleston Shooting


News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call a Hate Crime


News

Local Churches Holding Prayer Vigils Friday in Wake of S.C. Shooting



 


News

Ted Cruz Talks Charleston Shooting While in Johnston


News

Charleston Church Shooting: Questions Swirl Around Suspect Dylann Roof


News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


News

Watch President Obama Sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at Eulogy for Reverend Killed in Charleston Shooting


News

Obama Set to Eulogize Pastor in Charleston Shooting



 


News

South Carolina Lawmakers to Debate Confederate Flag Monday


News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images of Roof


News Politics

Clinton Calls for More Gun Control in Wake of Charleston Church Shooting






 





Mobile Apps13WarnMe Weather iPhone App
Android App
News iPhone & iPad App
Severe Weather Android App
Severe Weather iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1801 Grand Ave. Des Moines, IA 50309  •
		Copyright © 2015, WHO		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “whotv.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,320 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















