No Plans for Tighter Security at Des Moines Church Following Charleston Shooting | whotv.com 
No Plans for Tighter Security at Des Moines Church Following Charleston Shooting | whotv.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Six 

WHO-HD Channel 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






whotv.com

 Menu

News
Mega Doppler-S
Sports
On 13
Contests
Events




Weather 

75°







75°


Low 63°
High 78°





Fri


					71°  83°
					


Sat


					72°  90°
					


Sun


					71°  92°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







No Plans for Tighter Security at Des Moines Church Following Charleston Shooting

Posted 6:24 pm, June 19, 2015, by Jodi Whitworth 

FacebookTwitterGoogleEmailRedditTumblr 





DES MOINES, Iowa — “We serve a God who protects us. We don’t have to live in fear.”
Reverend Fredrick Gaddy of St. Paul AME Church said that before dozens of people at prayer vigil on Friday to remember the victims of the Charleston church shooting.
Around 100 people attended the vigil at the church, some of them hesitant to attend the event.
“I started not to come. I was very bitter and angry at the person,” said Sandi Fowler. “I came here distraught now I’m leaving with hope. I’m glad I came, she said.
St. Paul AME Church has been apart of Des Moines’ faith community for more than a century. Reverand Gaddy says the church has never receieved any hatred but instead has worked to bring the community together.
As a result of Thursday’s violence he said he does not feel his church will be targeted. There are no security measures in place at the church and Gaddy does not plan on implementing anything new.
“We won’t let evil change what we’ve been doing for over 100 years. We are supposed to welcome the strangers.”
Gaddy preached a sermon of encouragement and urged the congreation to recommit themselves in the fight for justice.
Church member, AJ Singleton said, ” We can’t let this  take us off our path. We need to continue to pray and keep fighting.”
Community leaders hope the incident will propel higher intensity and discussions regarding race.
“A lot of times we have race relation discussions  with folks of our own race. We need to bring people together and we need to continue to talk how we can eradicate hate towards races of people,” said Renee Hardman.



Filed in: News Topics: Des Moines 













 






 Channel 13 is on Instagram!
Join the fun.  Share with us!







 

 


Popular



Adventureland to Build New Roller Coaster in 2016



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Feds Raid Home of Subway Spokesman Jared Fogle in Child Pornography Investigation



Viral Facebook Post About Veteran And Service Dog May Not Be Completely True







 


Latest News



Old Fashioned Place to Give Birth Becomes New Trend



Three Iowa Vietnam Veterans Reflect On Their Experiences



Father Accused of Killing Three-year-old Daughter



Government Data Breach Impacted More Than 20 Million





 












News

Local Churches Holding Prayer Vigils Friday in Wake of S.C. Shooting


News

Multiple Fatalities at Church Shooting in Downtown Charleston, S.C.


News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call a Hate Crime


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina


News

Prayer Gathering Held in Des Moines After Charleston Church Shooting



 


News

Dylann Storm Roof: Police Name Suspect in Charleston Church Shooting


News

Obama Set to Eulogize Pastor in Charleston Shooting


News

People Fuming Over Va. Church Sign Connecting Satan with Equal Rights


News

Watch President Obama Sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at Eulogy for Reverend Killed in Charleston Shooting


News

Charleston Church Shooting: Questions Swirl Around Suspect Dylann Roof



 


News

Same-Sex Couple in Des Moines Reacts to Marriage Equality Decision


News

Ted Cruz Talks Charleston Shooting While in Johnston


News

Forest Ave. Outreach Expanding Programs






 





Mobile Apps13WarnMe Weather iPhone App
Android App
News iPhone & iPad App
Severe Weather Android App
Severe Weather iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1801 Grand Ave. Des Moines, IA 50309  •
		Copyright © 2015, WHO		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “whotv.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,320 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















