Clinton Calls for More Gun Control in Wake of Charleston Church Shooting | whotv.com 
Clinton Calls for More Gun Control in Wake of Charleston Church Shooting | whotv.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Six 

WHO-HD Channel 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






whotv.com

 Menu

News
Mega Doppler-S
Sports
On 13
Contests
Events




Weather 

75°







75°


Low 63°
High 78°





Fri


					71°  83°
					


Sat


					72°  90°
					


Sun


					71°  92°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Clinton Calls for More Gun Control in Wake of Charleston Church Shooting

Posted 12:28 pm, June 20, 2015, by CNN 

FacebookTwitterGoogleEmailRedditTumblr 


SAN FRANCISCO, California — An emotional Hillary Clinton on Saturday called for more gun control in the wake of the deadly Charleston, South Carolina church shooting that left nine dead earlier this week.
“This generation will not be shackled by fear and hate,” she said to applause at the U.S. Conference of Mayors in San Francisco.
“We can have common sense gun reforms that keep weapons out of the hands of criminals and the violently unstable while respecting owners,” said Clinton, the Democratic frontrunner for the 2016 presidential nomination. “The stakes are too high, the costs are too dear, and I am not and will not be afraid to keep fighting for common sense reforms and along with you, achieve those on behalf of all who have been lost because of this senseless gun violence in this country.”
Clinton also said race remains “a deep fault line in America.”
“Bodies are once again being carried out of black churches. Once again, racist rhetoric has metastasized into racist violence,” Clinton said. “Now it is tempting, it is tempting, to dismiss a tragedy like this as an isolated incident. To believe that in today’s America, bigotry is largely behind us, that institutionalized racism no longer exists. But despite out best efforts and our highest hopes, America’s long struggle with race is far from finished.”
Clinton has made addressing race issues a staple of her campaign since she announced her candidacy in April.
Weeks after she formally announced her campaign, Clinton called for mandatory body cameras on police and the end of the “era of mass incarceration.” Clinton told an audience in New York that it was time for the United States to come to terms with “unmistakable and undeniable” racial patterns in policing.
“As a citizen, a human being, my heart breaks for these young men and their families,” Clinton said, listing a number of incidents in the last year that have seen black men killed at the hands of law enforcement. “We have to come to terms with some hard truths about race and justice in America.”
When the former first lady traveled to South Carolina — an early voting state — for the first time, she focused her trip on minority women small business owners.
And earlier this week in an interview in Las Vegas, Clinton called for “a candid national conversation about race and about discrimination, prejudice, hatred” in the wake of the Charleston shooting.
Clinton’s aides argue that her outspokenness on race and crime follow her history as someone who stands up for the oppressed. But the policy positions also have political benefits and help the Democratic frontrunner keep together the diverse coalition of voters that helped President Barack Obama win the White House.
African-American voters flocked to Obama during the 2008 nomination fight. The 2008 fight for South Carolina took a racial turn, too, and damaged Clinton with some in the community.
But 2016 is not 2008. Obama won’t be on the ballot and some of the President’s most vocal African-American supporters from 2008, like South Carolina’s Edith Childs, have already joined Clinton’s nascent campaign.
“There is a time and a season for everything. That was his time,” Childs said during Clinton’s first trip to South Carolina.
Childs became famous for coining the chant “fired up, ready to go,” a phrase that followed Obama from South Carolina in 2007 all the way to the White House. Childs appeared next to Obama — and against Clinton — a number of times during the 2008 primary fight. Now, though, she is ready for Hillary.
“She is a woman and she can handle the job,” Childs said. “And she knows what we need especially as a woman because a lot of times men forget what we need. With her being a woman, she knows exactly what we need.”



Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News, Politics Topics: charleston, Hilary Clinton, politics 













 






 Channel 13 is on Instagram!
Join the fun.  Share with us!







 

 


Popular



Adventureland to Build New Roller Coaster in 2016



Woman’s Selfie in Old Navy Tank Top Goes Viral for Unexpected Reason



Feds Raid Home of Subway Spokesman Jared Fogle in Child Pornography Investigation



Viral Facebook Post About Veteran And Service Dog May Not Be Completely True







 


Latest News



Old Fashioned Place to Give Birth Becomes New Trend



Three Iowa Vietnam Veterans Reflect On Their Experiences



Father Accused of Killing Three-year-old Daughter



Government Data Breach Impacted More Than 20 Million





 












News

Obama Set to Eulogize Pastor in Charleston Shooting


News Politics

Top 8 Takeaways from Hillary Clinton’s First Big Interview


News

Watch President Obama Sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at Eulogy for Reverend Killed in Charleston Shooting


News

Gun Used in San Francisco Killing Belonged to Federal Agent, Source Says


News

Racist Online Manifesto Mentions Charleston, Includes Images of Roof



 


News

Charleston Church Shooting: 9 Killed in What Officials Call a Hate Crime


News Politics

Hillary Clinton: ‘People Should and Do Trust Me’


News

Suspect Tells TV Station He Killed San Francisco Woman


News

Charleston Church Shooting Suspect Arrested in North Carolina


News

Congress Asked Clinton About Emails in 2012



 


News

Charleston Church Shooting: Questions Swirl Around Suspect Dylann Roof


News Politics

Hillary Clinton Returns to a Familiar Face in Iowa


News

No Plans for Tighter Security at Des Moines Church Following Charleston Shooting






 





Mobile Apps13WarnMe Weather iPhone App
Android App
News iPhone & iPad App
Severe Weather Android App
Severe Weather iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1801 Grand Ave. Des Moines, IA 50309  •
		Copyright © 2015, WHO		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “whotv.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,320 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















