Two San Francisco news crews pistol-whipped and robbed during report on fatal shooting | Fox 59 
Two San Francisco news crews pistol-whipped and robbed during report on fatal shooting | Fox 59






GoSearch







 Watch Now: FOX59 NewsPoint at Eleven 

FOX59 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






Fox 59

 Menu

News
Morning
Community
Richmond Hill Trial
Sports
Traffic
Weather
On-Air
HealthTrax


 










 







Two San Francisco news crews pistol-whipped and robbed during report on fatal shooting

Posted 9:15 PM, July 3, 2015, by Associated Press 

FacebookTwitterGoogleLinkedInPinterestEmail 




 
Photo credit SFPD 


×
Two San Francisco news crews pistol-whipped and robbed during report on fatal shooting


 Photo credit SFPD


SAN FRANCISCO (July 3, 2015) — It’s one of San Francisco’s busiest tourist destinations — Pier 14 — where people gather to take in the waterfront views, and where families push strollers at all hours.
And now it’s the scene of a fatal shooting of a woman, allegedly by a man who police say she didn’t know.
The killing of Kate Steinle happened Wednesday evening, while there was still daylight. Photos taken by witnesses helped police arrest the suspect, Francisco Sanchez, about an hour later while he was walking on a sidewalk a few blocks away.
The victim’s mother tells the San Francisco Chronicle that the killing was unbelievable and surreal. She says her 32-year-old daughter pleaded with her father for help after she was shot. He began CPR before paramedics rushed her to the hospital.
Two television news crews that were reporting on the killing were later mugged at the scene, with a masked gunman pistol-whipping a camera operator. The robber took cameras from KNTV and KTVU before he jumped into a black BMW and fled.



Trademark and Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
Filed in: National & World, News 













 






 All Local. All Morning Long.
Begin your mornings with FOX59 Morning News!







 

 


Popular



Florida woman wore wire to aid investigation into Subway spokesman Jared Fogle



Woman takes selfie in Old Navy tank top; post goes viral for unexpected reason



Subway spokesman Jared Fogle’s home raided in child pornography investigation



Executive director of Jared Foundation arrested on child pornography, exploitation charges







 


Latest News



Family of suspect killed in IMPD body camera video ‘disappointed’



Rain could delay U.S. 31 lane shifts this weekend



Surveillance video shows man setting fire to near west side home



Special K9 sniffs for electronics during federal raid of Jared Fogle’s home





 












News

Suspect in killing of San Francisco woman had been deported five times


News

Wrong way interstate crash kills one, two others critically injured


News

Family says man feared arrest before fatal police shooting


National & World

Woman escapes captivity only to be murdered weeks later


Crimetracker News

Woman shoots, fends off three men in early morning attempted robbery



 


News

Man killed in police-action shooting remembered by friends, family, IMPD


Crimetracker News

Jury finds woman guilty in connection with hit-and-run crash that killed Franklin man


National & World News

Police officer sings to child to distract her from fatal accident involving her father


Crimetracker News

Four people dead after 11 shootings over 3 days across Indianapolis


News

Father of victim killed in drunk driving crash says sentence is ‘a joke’



 


News

Police justified in White County shooting


National & World News

Airline says it followed procedure after kicking cancer-stricken woman off flight


National & World News Sports

Chicago Bears fire defensive end after domestic violence arrest






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 		EEO Report • 		Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		6910 Network Place Indianapolis, IN 46278  •
		Copyright © 2015, WXIN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “Fox 59”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,646 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















