Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C. | fox13now.com 
Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C. | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Nine 

Fox 13 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
The Place
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

76°







76°


Low 64°
High 83°





Fri


					64°  84°
					


Sat


					67°  88°
					


Sun


					67°  90°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.

Posted 9:27 pm, June 17, 2015, by CNN Wire, Updated at 09:42pm, June 17, 2015 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 




 



×
Multiple fatalities reported after shooting at historic black church in Charleston, S.C.


 



By Ed Payne
CNN


(CNN) — [Latest developments]
— An official close to the investigation told CNN there are multiple fatalities inside the church. The source said there are several bodies in the church that have not yet been identified.
— The suspect in the shooting is a clean-shaven white man in his 20s, with a slender build, police say.
— Police are asking anyone with information about the shooting to call 911 dispatchers.
[Full story]
Several people were killed in a shooting at an historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina, a source close to the investigation told CNN.
The shooter is still at large.
The shooting took place Wednesday evening at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. On its website, the church describes itself as the “oldest AME church in the South.”
“It’s really bad. It’s a very bad scene,” local pastor Thomas Dixon said.
“Apparently the person just entered the church and opened fire. That part has not been fully articulated on what happened yet … they are still looking for the suspect.”
Search on for suspect
Police haven’t said how many people have been shot. But the source who spoke to CNN said several bodies were in the church that were yet to be identified.
Police said the suspect in the shooting is a clean-shaven white man in his 20s, with a slender build. He was wearing a gray sweatshirt, blue jeans and boots.
Soon afterward, news camera showed officers taking a man matching that description into custody, but police said they were still looking for the shooter.
The department asked anyone with information about the shooting to call 911 dispatchers
Heavy police presence
Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement.
Corey Wessenger, who was standing across the street from the church, said the area was swarming with law enforcement.
“I just saw a group of about 40 people escorted by cops,” Wessenger told CNN by phone.
Community members gathered in a prayer circle just down the street from the scene.
Patrick Wright, a reporter with WFMY News, tweeted, “We’ve been told not to leave our restaurant here in #Charleston for the time being. Helicopter still circling above.”




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: church shooting, Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, fatal shooting, mass shooting, shooting 








			4 comments		




 

mark traina (@obessed56)

NAAWP RESPONSE: Our HEARTS and PRAYERS go out to all the CHARLOTTE VICTIMS, their FAMILIES and their FRIENDS! 
GOD BLESS AMERICA and LORD PLEASE GUIDE our PATH?
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION for the ADVANCEMENT of WHITE PEOPLE – 2015




							June 17, 2015 at 11:50 pm						








 

ANOTHERBOB

There was a time when citizens could by dynamite and blasting caps at the hardware store to blast tree stumps.  Nobody thought twice about it, and nobody used it to hurt other people.  Those days of human decency are gone.




							June 18, 2015 at 9:53 am						








 

shine login

Why in the world would anyone give this trouble kid a gun for a birthday present?




							June 18, 2015 at 10:16 am						








 

Ron

Because they too are troubled!




							June 19, 2015 at 12:45 am						








Comments are closed.






 






Subscribe to our newsletters
The latest headlines, breaking news updates and information on new contests, right to your inbox!







 

 


Popular



Brianne Altice sentenced for sex with students



Chilling text messages reveal final moments before dad threw baby from bridge



UHP finds alcohol in car of wrong-way driver who killed 2, injured 2 in Fillmore



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason







 


Latest News



Off-duty officer stops to help man who ran out of gas, is shot at in the process



State says stop sprinklers after storms, seeks to slash consumption 25 percent by 2025



S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds



Teen suffers fatal injuries after jumping from moving vehicle





 












News

Captured: Suspected gunman in Charleston church shooting arrested


News

Minister: “No evildoer, no demon” can close church targeted by shooter


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Racist online manifesto mentions Charleston, includes images of suspect in mass shooting


News Politics

Pres. Obama brings up gun control issue while addressing US about Charleston shooting



 


News

Obama uses N-word, says we are ‘not cured’ of racism


News

Watch President Obama sing ‘Amazing Grace’ at eulogy for reverend killed in Charleston shooting


News

Local faith leaders express grief, disappointment over fatal South Carolina church shooting


News

		2 hours ago	

S.C. governor signs bill to remove Confederate flag from Capitol grounds


News

Vigil in Salt Lake City honors victims of shooting in Charleston



 


News

South Carolina police shooting: Authorities release dash cam video


News

Bishops lead march in Salt Lake City against gun violence


News

Prayer vigil for Charleston shooting victims held in SLC






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2015, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






































Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 3,098 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















