LISTEN: Michael Slager Police Radio Walter Scott Shooting | Heavy.com
LISTEN: Michael Slager Police Radio Walter Scott Shooting | Heavy.com
























News

Breaking News
5 Fast Facts
Celebrities
Conspiracies
Weird News


Sports

Odds
Betting
Basketball
NFL
College Football
Soccer
Baseball
Golf
WAGs
UFC


Entertainment

Television
Celebs
Movies
5 Fast Facts
Funny Videos
Web & Social


Tech

Google
Apple
Android
Games
Microsoft
Apps
Tablets
Smartphones


Gaming

Xbox One
PS4
Xbox 360
Wii U
3DS
PS3
Mobile
PC Games
News
Trailers
Accessories


Shopping
 




News





















LISTEN: Michael Slager Police Dispatch Audio During Walter Scott Shooting


Published 11:13 pm EDT, April 7, 2015


Updated 4:26 pm EDT, April 8, 2015			

Comment 

							By Tom Cleary


1k		


Share 
Tweet 
Share 
Save
Email






A recording of police scanner audio from Saturday includes Michael Slager’s communication with North Charleston Police Department dispatchers during and after the shooting of Walter Scott.
Slager was charged Tuesday with murder after video was released by a witness showing the officer shooting Scott  at Scott’s back eight times as Scott runs away. Scott was shot five times, the coroner’s office said. The incident began with a traffic stop.
Slager initially said he feared for his life after his Taser was taken from him by Scott, according to the Charleston Post and Courier.
The traffic stop happened at about 9:30 a.m., police said, with the shooting happening a few minutes later.
The incident begins in the audio at about the 7:30 mark of the 30-minute recording as Slager calls in a traffic stop. He was pulling over Scott’s Mercedes-Benz for a broken light, police said.
Slager can be heard at about the 10:35 mark of the recording calling dispatch to announce he’s in a foot chase, describing the suspect as black in a green shirt and blue pants. The dispatcher then repeats his description and calls for radio silence other than transmissions related to the chase.
At about 11:05 of the recording, another officer says he’s in route to join the chase. Slager then tells the other officers of his new location and can be overheard telling someone to “get down on the ground.” 
At 12:27 (9:38 a.m.), as the other officers try to find Slager, he says, “shots fired. Subject is down. He grabbed my Taser.” 
Slager then says a minute later that he needs his vehicle secured. He says the suspect has gun shot wounds to the chest, thigh and buttocks and is unresponsive. He tells the dispatcher the scene, behind a pawn shop in a field, is secure.
Another officer then arrives and confirms the injuries to the victim. He then says he has started to provide first aid, including chest compressions. An EMS unit arrives at the scene at about the 19:43 mark of the tape, about six minutes after Slager called in the shooting.
Listen to the full recording above.
Michael Slager: 5 Fast Facts You Need to KnowMichael Slager, a white South Carolina police officer,  has been charged with murder after video showed him shooting a black man in the back 8 times.Click here to read more
WATCH: Walter Scott Fatally Shot in Back by South Carolina Cop Michael SlagerVideo taken by a witness shows North Charleston, South Carolina police officer Michael Slager shooting Walter Scott in the back 8 times as Scott runs away.Click here to read more
Michael Slager Photos: The Pictures You Need to SeeMichael Slager, a North Charleston, South Carolina, police officer, is accused of murder after fatally shooting an unarmed black man in the back as he ran away.Click here to read more
Walter Scott Photos: Pictures of South Carolina Shooting VictimWalter Scott, a 50-year-old father of four, was fatally shot in the back by a South Carolina police officer, Michael Slager, who is now facing a murder charge. Click here to read more

Tom Cleary
is a reporter and editor for Heavy.com. Tom was a breaking news reporter at the Connecticut Post and an editor at the Register Citizen and New Haven Register. He can be reached by email at Tom.Cleary@Heavy.com. Follow him on Twitter @tomwcleary.

April 8, 2015 4:26 pm 






Share 
Tweet 
Share 
Save
Email




Related ItemsBreaking Newsmichael slagerPoliceSouth Carolina 


Related posts from this category

More Posts






Leave a comment



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (Address never made public)



Name



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



 







Related posts from this category

More Posts









HomeAbout UsOddsCollege Basketball OddsCollege Football OddsContact UsMajor League Baseball OddsNBA OddsNFL OddsNHL OddsPrivacy PolicyTerms of Service
	Copyright © 2015 Heavy, Inc. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP
























