WATCH: Walter Scott Fatally Shot by Michael Slager | Heavy.com
WATCH: Walter Scott Fatally Shot by Michael Slager | Heavy.com
























News

Breaking News
5 Fast Facts
Celebrities
Conspiracies
Weird News


Sports

Odds
Betting
Basketball
NFL
College Football
Soccer
Baseball
Golf
WAGs
UFC


Entertainment

Television
Celebs
Movies
5 Fast Facts
Funny Videos
Web & Social


Tech

Google
Apple
Android
Games
Microsoft
Apps
Tablets
Smartphones


Gaming

Xbox One
PS4
Xbox 360
Wii U
3DS
PS3
Mobile
PC Games
News
Trailers
Accessories


Shopping
 




News





















WATCH: Walter Scott Fatally Shot in Back by South Carolina Cop Michael Slager


Published 9:04 pm EDT, April 7, 2015


Updated 8:00 am EDT, June 18, 2015			

2 Comments 

							By Tom Cleary


1.2k		


Share 
Tweet 
Share 
Save
Email





 


















(Warning Graphic Video)
Video taken by a bystander, Feidin Santana, and released to the media Tuesday led to the arrest of a North Charleston, South Carolina police officer on a murder charge.
The cell phone recording shows Patrolman 1st Class Michael Slager shooting Walter Scott in the back five times, firing eight shots at him while Scott had his back turned and didn’t appear to be a threat. Scott died at the scene. Walter Scott, who is black, had fled from Slager, who is white, after a “routine traffic stop,” according to the Charleston Post and Courier. Police said Scott was hit by a Taser and then ran away. Slager claimed he feared for his life after Scott took the Taser from him during an altercation, but the video casts doubt on his version of events.
At about the 1-minute mark of the video, Slager can be seen running over to the original location of the altercation and then dropping an object, possibly the Taser, next to Scott’s body.
Slager was held without bond Tuesday night and is also facing a federal investigation by the Department of Justice.
Michael Slager: 5 Fast Facts You Need to KnowMichael Slager, a white South Carolina police officer,  has been charged with murder after video showed him shooting a black man in the back 8 times.Click here to read more
Michael Slager Photos: The Pictures You Need to SeeMichael Slager, a North Charleston, South Carolina, police officer, is accused of murder after fatally shooting an unarmed black man in the back as he ran away.Click here to read more
Walter Scott Photos: Pictures of South Carolina Shooting VictimWalter Scott, a 50-year-old father of four, was fatally shot in the back by a South Carolina police officer, Michael Slager, who is now facing a murder charge. Click here to read more

Tom Cleary
is a reporter and editor for Heavy.com. Tom was a breaking news reporter at the Connecticut Post and an editor at the Register Citizen and New Haven Register. He can be reached by email at Tom.Cleary@Heavy.com. Follow him on Twitter @tomwcleary.

June 18, 2015 8:00 am 






Share 
Tweet 
Share 
Save
Email




Related ItemsBreaking Newsmichael slagerPoliceSouth CarolinaVideo 


Related posts from this category

More Posts






Leave a comment



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (Address never made public)



Name



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



 



			2 comments		





 Anonymous2 says: 



							April 7, 2015 at 10:24 pm						




First for anime butts


Reply 





 SHOHAG KAYSAR (@gptune) says: 



							April 8, 2015 at 3:43 pm						




Watch in HD>>> http://goo.gl/OBzMGK

Reply 









Related posts from this category

More Posts









HomeAbout UsOddsCollege Basketball OddsCollege Football OddsContact UsMajor League Baseball OddsNBA OddsNFL OddsNHL OddsPrivacy PolicyTerms of Service
	Copyright © 2015 Heavy, Inc. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP




























