Dylann Roof’s sister sought donations to pay for wedding, honeymoon after church shootings - Post and Courier
Dylann Roof’s sister sought donations to pay for wedding, honeymoon after church shootings - Post and Courier
























HOT TOPICS











Breaking News
 Gov. Nikki Haley signs bill, Confederate flag to come down
×














Clear

80°














































Dylann Roof’s sister sought donations to pay for wedding, honeymoon after church shootings











Weather

Forecast
Radar




Temperature81°(27°C)
Feels Like87°(30°C)
Humidity86%
Winds1.1mph























Sections




News


Sports


Politics


Food


Entertainment


Features


Opinion


Obituaries


Classifieds


Subscribe


















Categories

Local
Crime
Business
Death Notices
Special Reports
Databases
Interactive Graphics



Latest News






RiverDogs shut out Kannapolis, 1-0









Coast Guard finds overturned boat near Bulls Bay, two boaters still missing









Walter Scott family visits shooting site with Emanuel shooting on minds




Additional Links

Brian Hicks
Frank Wooten
Homicides Map
Hurricane Guide
Traffic Cams
Emanuel AME Shooting
Walter Scott Shooting







Categories

Prep Zone
South Carolina
Clemson
Local Colleges
Minor Leagues
Outdoors
Golf
Auto Racing
National Sports



Latest News






RiverDogs shut out Kannapolis, 1-0









Home Run leads opening day of MegaDock Billfishing Tournament









Former Timberland High star Quinton Washington finds new arena for his competitive drive




Additional Links

Gene Sapakoff
Recruiting News
Clemson Blog
South Carolina Blog
Pro Wrestling News
Sports Medicine







Categories

Legislature
State Government
Local Politics
State Politics
Federal Politics
Elections



Latest News






 Gov. Nikki Haley signs bill, Confederate flag to come down









House scraps vote on Confederate flag in federal cemeteries









Overflowing GOP presidential field has Fox News in demand




Additional Links

Presidential Candidate Visits
Find your precinct
State Republicans
State Democrats
Congressional Voting Records
2014 General Election Results
Track political finances







Categories

Reviews
Openings
Recipes
Beverages
Seasonal Foods



Latest News






Heritage at Seabrook opens tonight









Magnolias appoints new executive chef









Breakfast cookbook will get you going with its variety of dishes




Additional Links

Charleston Eating Tour
Hanna Raskin Blog
#FirstBiteCHS
Dine Like a Charlestonian
Sum of its Parts
Restaurant health inspections







Categories

Music
Events Calendar
Television
Comics & Games
Visual Arts



Latest From Charleston Scene






Artist spotlight: Gino Castillo









Visual Arts: Leave your mark on Charleston’s art scene to help Redux Contemporary Art Center beat the heat









A reluctant stand-up performs at Theater 99; Playwright Festival returns




Additional Links

Photo Galleries
Beaches
Get Out
Theater







Categories

Health
Home & Garden
Arts
Faith
Books
Pets
Contests
Your Photos



Latest News






Heritage at Seabrook opens tonight









Reader photos: You showed us your ‘patriotic spirit,’ now show us ‘simplicity’









Magnolias appoints new executive chef




Additional Links

David Quick
Warren Peper
Health & Fitness Blog
Anniversaries & Births
Weddings & Engagements







Categories

Editorials
Letters
Commentary



Latest News






Historic S.C. triumph: finally furling the flag






Appalling Social Security waste






Berlin G. Myers




Additional Links

Submit a letter






Search Obituaries




Classifieds
Marketplace
Jobs
Autos
Real Estate
Pets
Jobs (Mobile)
Place an Ad











				News
			














Share








Dylann Roof’s sister sought donations to pay for wedding, honeymoon after church shootings



Glenn Smith

 Email
 Facebook
 @glennsmith5



Jul 2 2015 10:41 am
 Jul 2 5:55 pm














×







		The sister of the man accused of killing nine people at Emanuel AME Church raised nearly $1,700 to pay for her postponed wedding and honeymoon before pulling the plug on her online funding campaign Thursday amid a swarm of media attention.
	
		Amber Roof started a GoFundMe page this week, asking for $5,000 to “cover lost wedding costs, to pay bills, and to send us on our dream honeymoon.” She pledged to donate 10 percent of the money raised to Emanuel AME Church.
	
		She and her fiance were to be married June 21, four days after her brother, 21-year-old Dylann Roof, allegedly gunned down nine worshippers attending a Bible study at the historic black church in an attempt to start a race war. He is being held without bail in the Charleston County jail and faces nine counts of murder.
	





		After The Post and Courier reported on the fundraising page Thursday morning, media outlets across the country picked up the story and debate over her endeavor exploded on social media. Around 1:30 p.m. the page suddenly disappeared. GoFundMe said Roof took it down. She could not be reached for comment.
	
		On the page, Amber Roof had said her wedding was supposed to be “the day every girl dreams of,” with the perfect venue and vows ready to be read.
	
		“It was suppose to start our lives together with our new family. Our day was the exact opposite. Our wedding day was full of sorrow, pain, and shame, tainted by the actions of one man,” she stated. “The Charleston Massacre took place and our lives were forever changed. The media abused our privacy and published all of our wedding information and destroyed our dream day. Destroying the first day of Michael and my life together.”
	
		Roof stated that she and her fiance canceled the wedding “to protect our family and mourn the lives of those lost” but they now want another chance at happiness.
	
		“We would like the chance to start our lives on a positive note,” she stated. “Therefore, we have decided to start a Go Fund Me account. We know money cannot replace the wedding we lost and our perfect day, however it will help us to create new memories and a new start with our new family.”
	
		Though several people contributed money, the page also attracted some harsh comments by people appalled by her appeal.
	
		“This has to be the most self-centered and insensitive fundraising page I’ve ever encountered and I’m shocked that gofundme hasn’t erased you from their existence already!” one woman posted. “I can’t imagine the anguish and sorrow that your own brother has inflicted on so many wonderful and kind people and all the while, you are fantasizing about letting others fund your honeymoon!!”
	
		“THE NERVE OF YOU!!!” another commenter said. “If its just about getting married then go to the court house. But how dare u set up a gofundme under these circumstances.”
	



Keywords






Get more news delivered to your inbox:
Register  Manage Newsletters




Comments

Notice about comments:
The Post and Courier is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.
We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions.













Most Popular


NTSB working to preserve evidence, determine what went wrong in Berkeley County crash

‘New day in South Carolina’: House votes to take down Confederate flag

Stocks lose more than 1% on day of New York Stock Exchange outage

Windjammer in Isle of Palms safe after reported bomb threat

United Airlines computer glitch not believed to be linked to NYSE outage







Events Calendar



































© 2015, The Post and Courier, an Evening Post Industries company. All Rights Reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of Terms of Use, Parental Consent Form, and Privacy Policy.




About

About
Staff
Mobile apps



Services

Newsletters
Become a member
Place an ad
Advertising rates
Advertising account



Site Links



Editorial
Classifieds
RSS Feeds





Related Properties



Aiken Standard - Aiken, SC
South Strand News - Georgetown, Pawleys Island, & Murrells Inlet, SC
The Gazette - Goose Creek, SC
The News - Kingstree, SC




The Berkeley Independent - Moncks Corner, SC
Moultrie News - Mount Pleasant, SC
The Star - North Augusta, SC
Journal Scene - Summerville, SC
Evening Post Books - Charleston, SC
























Sections

News
Sports
Business
Politics
Food
Entertainment
Features
Opinion
Obituaries
Spoleto


Other Sites
Lowcountry Parent
My Charleston
North Charleston Magazine
Real Estate
Tideline Magazine
Your Faith
CharlestonSCBrides.com
Special Sections


Classifieds
Classifieds
Marketplace
Jobs
Autos
Real Estate
Pets


Advertising
Place an Ad
Advertising Rates
Sponsored Content






Login with Press+


Member Rewards
Become a member

Your rewards


Customer Care
Subscribe
Manage your subscription
Access E-edition
Archives
Order magazines
Email Newsletters
Manage Newsletters
Contact Us
Mobile Apps

















