Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect? | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV 
Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect? | New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV






GoSearch







 Watch Now: PIX11 News at 10 

PIX11 TV Schedule 


 Search
 Contact Us






New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV

 Menu

NEWS
Local
Morning
Sports
PIX Team
Contests
PIX PLUS
Traffic
Events







Weather 

72°







72°


Low 71°
High 80°





Fri


					70°  87°
					


Sat


					72°  88°
					


Sun


					73°  90°
					


See complete forecast

 Severe weather alert




 



 


 GOAL! Explore PIX11’s full coverage of the World Cup Ticker Tape Parade						








 







Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?

Posted 7:46 AM, June 18, 2015, by CNN, Updated at 08:46pm, June 18, 2015 

FacebookTwitterRedditPinterestEmailGoogle 




 
Dylann Roof, 21, was arrested Thursday morning about 245 miles (395 kilometers) away in Shelby, North Carolina, law enforcement authorities said. Roof is a suspect in the killing nine people Wednesday, June 17, 2015 night at a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina. This is a mug shot from Charleston County Sheriff's Office. 


×
Who is the Charleston church shooting suspect?


 Dylann Roof, 21, was arrested Thursday morning about 245 miles (395 kilometers) away in Shelby, North Carolina, law enforcement authorities said. Roof is a suspect in the killing nine people Wednesday, June 17, 2015 night at a historic African-American church in Charleston, South Carolina. This is a mug shot from Charleston County Sheriff's Office.



CHARLESTON, S.C.– When Dylann Storm Roof turned 21 in April, his father bought him a .45-caliber gun, a senior law enforcement source briefed on the investigation said Thursday.
It’s not known whether that handgun was used when Roof allegedly opened fire Wednesday night at a prayer meeting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, killing nine people.
“You rape our women, and you’re taking over our country. And you have to go,” Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the church’s slain pastor, said the gunman told his victims, according to CNN affiliate WIS. She cited survivors of the shooting.
In the sparse details that have emerged about his life, none would suggest that he was capable of such hatred and violence.
Police in his hometown of Columbia — about 120 miles northwest of Charleston — obtained a warrant for his arrest in early March. He had been picked up by police on drug charges a few days earlier at Columbiana Centre mall, according to a police report.
Workers at two stores told mall security that Roof was acting strangely, asking “out of the ordinary questions” such as the number of sales associates and what time they left the mall, the police report said.
When a police confronted him, Roof “began speaking very nervously and stated that his parents were pressuring him to get a job,” according to the police report. Roof told the officer that he had not picked up any employment applications.
Banned from mall
Roof initially said he was not carrying anything illegal. But after he agreed to be searched, the officer found “a small unlabeled white bottle containing multiple orange … square strips” in his jacket, the police report said.
Roof told the officer the bottle contained Listerine breath strips.
When the officer asked again, Roof said the strips were suboxone, which is used to treat opiate addiction, according to the police report. Roof said he got the strips from a friend.
Though Roof was arrested on a drug possession charge that day in late February, it’s unclear why the March 1 arrest warrant was issued.
On April 26, police were again called to Columbiana Centre because of Roof, who had been banned from the mall for a year after his drug arrest, a police report said. The mall ban was extended to three years.
Roof was arrested that day in late April on a charge of trespassing; his car was turned over to his mother. The disposition of that case is also unclear.
John Mullins, who attended White Knoll High School with Roof, told CNN on Thursday that the suspect was “kind of wild” but not violent.
“He was … calm,” Mullins said. “That’s why all this is such a shock.”
Mullins said Roof occasionally made racist comments although he had black friends.
“They were just racist slurs in a sense,” he said. “He would say it just as a joke. … I never took it seriously, but now that he shed his other side, so maybe they should have been taken more seriously.”
Roof repeated the ninth grade at White Knoll High School in Lexington County, according to Mary Beth Hill of the Lexington School District. She described him as “very transient,” adding that he “came and went.”
‘Quiet, strange, very unsocial’
U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, said his niece, Emily, was in an eighth-grade English class with Roof.
“He was quiet, strange, very unsocial and everyone thought he was on drugs,” Graham said of the suspect, relaying the description from Emily and his sister, Darline Graham Nordone.
The niece did not recall Roof making statements related to race, Graham said.
“I just think he was one of these whacked-out kids. I don’t think it’s anything broader than that,” said Graham, who is running for president. “It’s about a young man who is obviously twisted.”
On Wednesday night, the white and slightly built gunman was at the historic African-American church for about an hour, attending a meeting with his eventual victims, before the massacre, according to Charleston police Chief Greg Mullen.
Witnesses told investigators the gunman stood up and said he was there “to shoot black people,” a law enforcement official said.
Investigators are looking into whether Roof had links to white supremacist or other hate groups, a law enforcement official said. There is no indication so far that he was known to law enforcement officials who focus on hate groups.
In an image tweeted by authorities in Berkeley County, South Carolina, Roof is seen wearing a jacket with what appear to be the flags of apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that a white minority ruled until it became independent in 1980 and changed its name to Zimbabwe.
Woman spared by shooter to give account?
A female survivor told family members that the gunman told her he was letting her live to tell everyone else what happened, Dot Scott, president of the local branch of the NAACP, told CNN.
Scott said she had not spoken to the survivor directly but had heard this account repeated at least a dozen times as she met with relatives of the victims Wednesday night.
“No one in this community will ever forget this night and as a result of this and because of the pain and the hurt this individual has caused this entire community,” Mullen said.
Charleston Mayor Joe Riley described the suspect as “somebody filled with hate and with a deranged mind.”
The man is a “no-good, horrible person,” he said. “Of course we will make sure he pays the price for this horrible act.”


PHOTO GALLERY: Mermaid Parade 2015 [NSFW]


PHOTOS & VIDEO: ‘Seinfield’ fans can visit Jerry’s apartment in new exhibit


DNA test proves ‘fried rat’ was a chicken tender, KFC says


New Yorkers strip down for No Pants Subway Ride [PHOTOS & VIDEO]




Related stories

How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC
Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community
Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter




Trademark and Copyright 2015 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
Filed in: News Topics: Charleston, Shooting, South Carolina 













 






Watch NJ Lottery drawings live
Winning numbers and daily results







 

 


Popular



Woman’s selfie in Old Navy tank top goes viral for unexpected reason



Man, 21, holding baby daughter, is shot to death in Parkchester, the Bronx



Subway suspends relationship with spokesman Jared Fogle after federal agents raid his home in child porn probe



Teen with Asperger’s syndrome teaches bullies who beat him up a life lesson







 


Latest News



Program helps kids of incarcerated parents in NYC



NJ family plagued by mysterious illness



Web extra: Christian Borle talks historic dressing room, show us his costumes



Web extra: Brad Oscar and Brooks Ashmanskas talk their dressing room decor





 












News

Family of Charleston shooting suspect makes first statement on slayings


News

Tip from woman heading to work led police to suspected church shooter


News

Dylann Roof and Michael Slager are jail neighbors, police confirm


News

Charleston minister: ‘No evildoer, no demon’ can close church


News

Snapchat video allegedly shows Dylann Roof in prayer group just before massacre



 


News

Dylann Roof says he almost backed out because everyone at church was ‘so nice’


News

Suspected church shooter Dylann Roof confesses to massacre: source


News

How South Carolina church massacre spurred reaction in NYC


News

Who were the Charleston victims?: 9 lives lost to family and community


News

Dylann Storm Roof: FBI names suspect in Charleston church shooting



 


News

Charleston church shooting investigated as a hate crime


News

Woman says Charleston shooter spared her to ‘tell everyone’ what happened


News

Vigils held in Harlem to remember victims of South Carolina church shooting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		220 East 42nd Street New York, NY 10017 212-949-1100  •
		Copyright © 2015, WPIX		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “New York's PIX11 / WPIX-TV”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,971 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com








Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address






Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















