Friend says church shooting suspect ranted about race
Friend says church shooting suspect ranted about race




Skip to main content




 






















                    Latest News                




















































 

 







 









Friend says church shooting suspect ranted about race 


By MITCH WEISS, MEG KINNARD and JACOB JORDAN

Jun. 19, 2015 12:02 AM EDT


















Share article
















        14 photos    









FILE -In this Thursday, June 18, 2015 file photo, Charleston, S.C., shooting suspect Dylann Storm Roof is escorted from the Cleveland County Courthouse in Shelby, N.C.  Roof is accused of killing nine people inside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston on June 17. (AP Photo/Chuck Burton, File)



i



By: MEG KINNARD (AP), MITCH WEISS (AP), JACOB JORDAN (AP)LEXINGTON, S.C.Copyright 2015 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.33.9023-81.2722 
 
 

LEXINGTON, S.C. (AP) — In recent weeks, Dylann Storm Roof reconnected with a childhood buddy he hadn't seen in five years and started railing about the Trayvon Martin case, about black people "taking over the world" and about the need for someone to do something about it for the sake of "the white race," the friend said Thursday.
On Thursday, Roof, 21, was arrested in the shooting deaths of nine people during a prayer meeting at a historic black church in Charleston — an attack decried by stunned community leaders and politicians as a hate crime.
In the hours after the Wednesday night bloodbath, a portrait began to take shape of Roof as someone with racist views and at least two recent run-ins with the law. On his Facebook page, the young white man wore a jacket with the flags of the former white-racist regimes of South Africa and Rhodesia.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Joseph Meek Jr. said he and Roof had been best friends in middle school but lost touch when Roof moved away about five years ago. The two reconnected a few weeks ago after Roof reached out to Meek on Facebook, Meek said.
Roof never talked about race years ago when they were friends, but recently made remarks out of the blue about the killing of unarmed black 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in Florida and the riots in Baltimore over the death of Freddie Gray in police custody, Meek said.
"He said blacks were taking over the world. Someone needed to do something about it for the white race," Meek said, adding that the friends were getting drunk on vodka. "He said he wanted segregation between whites and blacks. I said, 'That's not the way it should be.' But he kept talking about it."
Meeks said Roof also told him that he had used birthday money from his parents to buy a gun and that he had "a plan." He didn't elaborate on what it was, but Meeks said he was worried — and  said he knew Roof had the  "Glock" — a .45 caliber pistol — in the trunk of his car.
Meek said he took the gun from the trunk of Roof's car and hid it in his house, just in case.
"I didn't think he would do anything," he said.
But the next day, when Roof was sober, he gave it back.
Meek said that when he woke up Wednesday morning, Roof was at his house, sleeping in his car outside. Later that day, Roof dropped Meek off at a lake with his brother Jacob, but Roof hated the outdoors and decided he would rather go see a movie.
Jacob said that when he got in the car, Roof told him he should be careful moving his backpack in the car because of the "magazines."
Jacob said he thought Roof was referring to periodicals, not the devices that store ammunition.
"Now it all makes sense," he said.
Joseph Meek said he didn't see his friend again until a surveillance-camera image of a young man with a soup-bowl haircut was broadcast on television Thursday morning in the wake of the shooting. Meek said he didn't think twice about calling authorities.
"I didn't THINK it was him. I KNEW it was him," he said.
The Southern Poverty Law Center, a civil rights group that tracks hate organizations and extremists, said it was not aware of Roof before the rampage. And some other friends interviewed said they did not know him to be racist.
"I never thought he'd do something like this," said high school friend Antonio Metze, 19, who is black. "He had black friends."
Roof used to skateboard while growing up in the Lexington area and had long hair back then. He attended high school in Lexington and in nearby Columbia from 2008 to 2010, school officials said. It was not immediately clear whether he graduated.
"He was pretty smart," Metze said.
Meek's mother, Kimberly Konzny, said she and her son instantly recognized Roof in the surveillance camera image because Roof had the same stained sweatshirt he wore while playing Xbox video games in their home recently. It was stained because he had worked at a landscaping and pest control business, she said.
"I don't know what was going through his head," she said. "He was a really sweet kid. He was quiet. He only had a few friends."
State court records for Roof as an adult show a misdemeanor drug case from March that was pending against him and a misdemeanor trespassing charge from April. Authorities had no immediate details. As for any earlier offenses, juvenile records are generally sealed in South Carolina.
Court records list no attorney for him.
Meek said Roof's mother and her boyfriend live in Lexington, and his father lives in Columbia.
Roof displayed a Confederate flag on his license plate, according to Konzny, but that is not unusual in the South.
His Facebook profile picture showed him wearing a jacket with a green-and-white flag patch, the emblem of white-ruled Rhodesia, the African country that became Zimbabwe in 1980. Another patch showed the South African flag from the era of white minority rule that ended in the 1990s.
In Montgomery, Alabama, the president of the Southern Poverty Law Center, Richard Cohen, said it is unclear whether Roof had any connection to any of the 16 white supremacist organizations the SPLC has identified as operating in South Carolina.
But Cohen said that based on Roof's Facebook page, he appeared to be a "disaffected white supremacist."
In a statement, Cohen said the church attack is a reminder that while the post-Sept. 11 U.S. is focused on jihadi terrorism, the threat of homegrown extremism is "very real." Since 2000, the SPLC has seen an increase in the number of hate groups in the U.S., Cohen said.
"The increase has been driven by a backlash to the country's increasing racial diversity, an increase symbolized for many by the presence of an African American in the White House," he said.
___
Associated Press writer Jay Reeves in Alabama contributed to this story.






SEE FULL ARTICLE







 
 
 



 





Advertisement



 

 


SEE COMMENTS


Comments
View the discussion thread. 



 




Latest News





AP Source: Joel Anthony agrees to stay with Pistons





Jul. 9, 2015 11:03 PM EDT 














Cardinals' Martinez shuts down Pirates, 4-1





Jul. 9, 2015 11:02 PM EDT 







Mavs get Pachulia from Bucks after missing out on Jordan





Jul. 9, 2015 10:56 PM EDT 














Jose Fernandez goes 7 innings to help Marlins beat Reds 2-0





Jul. 9, 2015 10:54 PM EDT 







Utah Jazz sign Raul Neto to multi-year contract





Jul. 9, 2015 10:52 PM EDT 








 




Advertisement



 




Advertisement

 





Topics

Drug-related crime, South Carolina, African-Americans, Discrimination, Race and ethnicity, Trayvon Martin, Racial and ethnic discrimination, Alabama, Columbia, Hate groups, Southern Poverty Law Center, Freddie Gray
 




Advertisement



 

 
 








Get the AP Mobile app



AP Sites


Auto Racing
College Basketball
College Football
Football



Follow AP

Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn





 
            AP News | 
           © 2015 Associated Press  | 
            Privacy Policy  |  
            Terms of Use  | 
            AP Books  |  
            AP Images  |  
            ap.org



 
  

 




