The New York Times: Get Home Delivery & the Digital Subscription - NYTimes.com
The New York Times: Get Home Delivery & the Digital Subscription - NYTimes.com











Subscriber Log In
Home Delivery Account


Choose a Times subscription that’s best for you. Starting as low as 99¢.
Choose a Times subscription that’s best for you.







Get web + Smartphone apps ▸

first 4 weeks  99¢
Every week Thereafter  $3.75

HideSee Details


NYTimes.com + Smartphone Apps






Get web + Tablet apps ▸

first 4 weeks 99¢
Every week Thereafter $5.00

HideSee Details


NYTimes.com + Tablet Apps






Get All Digital Access ▸

first 4 weeks 99¢
Every week thereafter $8.75

HideSee Details


All Digital Access





Home Delivery + All Digital Access ▸

first 12 weeks  50% Off
Every week Thereafter  as low as $9.00

HideSee Details


Home Delivery + All Digital Access

 

 

Promotional offers for new subscribers only. Home Delivery offer valid for new subscribers in areas served by The New York Times Delivery Service. Smartphone and tablet apps are not supported on all devices. NYTimes.com + Smartphone Apps, NYTimes.com + Tablet Apps and All Digital Access subscriptions do not include e-reader editions, Times Premier content or digital versions of The New York Times Crossword. Prices shown are in U.S. dollars. We reserve the right to modify the type and availability of any digital product at any time. Other restrictions apply.Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. iPhone and iPad are trademarks of Apple Inc. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. 










Web + Smartphone

99¢ for 4 weeks ►
Get web + Smartphone apps ►


first 4weeks99¢
Every WeekThereafter$3.75

Web + Tablet

99¢ for 4 weeks ►
Get web + Tablet apps ►


first 4weeks99¢
Every WeekThereafter$5.00

All Digital Access

99¢ for 4 weeks ►
Get All Digital Access ►


first 4weeks99¢
Every WeekThereafter$8.75

Home Delivery+ All Digital Access


50% off for 12 weeks ►
Get Home Delivery + All Digital Access ►



50% off the first  12 weeks
Every WeekThereafter$9.00




Price thereafter
$3.75 a week
$5.00 a week
$8.75 a week
as low as $9.00 a week


Access to NYTimes.com






Access to NYTimes apps for smartphone






Access to NYTimes apps for tablet






Access to the full Times Archives from 1851






Share Digital Access with a family member






Convenient deliveryof the newspaper







Promotional offers for new subscribers only. Home Delivery offer valid for new subscribers in areas served by The New York Times Delivery Service. Smartphone and tablet apps are not supported on all devices. NYTimes.com + Smartphone Apps, NYTimes.com + Tablet Apps and All Digital Access subscriptions do not include e-reader editions, Times Premier content or digital versions of The New York Times Crossword. Prices shown are in U.S. dollars. We reserve the right to modify the type and availability of any digital product at any time. Other restrictions apply.










Education Rates
Save 50% on unlimited access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps exclusively for educators and students. Go to Education Rates


Gift Subscription
Save 30% on a Home Delivery or Digital Gift Subscription. Both include unlimited access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps. See Gift Subscriptions





More Subscription Options
More subscriptions from The Times



















Enjoy the ultimate insider experience with exclusive behind-the-scenes access.Just 99¢ for your first 4 weeks. See Times Premier
Unlimited access to the Opinion section on NYTimes.com.Just 99¢ for the first 12 weeks.  See NYT Opinion
Learn how organizations can save with group access to NYTimes.comand NYTimes apps. Learn More





Corporate Rates



GiftSubscriptions



NYT Opinion



Times Premier



Education Rates





Frequently Asked Questions
What is a home delivery subscription? What do I get when I subscribe?

As a home delivery subscriber to The New York Times, you enjoy the convenience and reliability of having the printed newspaper delivered to you first thing in the morning. Your subscription includes free All Digital Access, which brings you unlimited access to NYTimes.com and full access to the NYTimes apps for smartphones and tablets. You can also share your All Digital Access with a family member at no additional charge.
Home delivery subscribers also have free access to The New York Times Archive, featuring every article published since 1851; Times Digest, a 10-page summary of the top stories of The Times, emailed daily; and The New York Times Replica Edition, an exact digital replica of the printed paper that you can read online or offline — even when you are not connected to the Internet. We also make it easy for you to suspend home delivery service while you’re away on vacation.

What is a digital subscription? What do I get when I subscribe?

An unlimited New York Times digital subscription provides ongoing access to NYTimes.com from any computer or device, as well as access to apps on portable devices. When you subscribe, you’ll get access to articles and blog posts, as well as video, slide shows and other multimedia features.

Can I get a subscription to NYTimes.com only?

No. A digital subscription package gives you ongoing access to NYTimes.com on any computer or device, plus NYTimes apps for your smartphone and/or tablet, depending on the option you choose.

I get home delivery of the newspaper. Do I get free access?

Yes. Print subscribers to The New York Times get a free All Digital Access subscription. This package includes free, unlimited access to NYTimes.com on any device, as well as the full range of NYTimes apps for your smartphone (iPhone®, BlackBerry®, Windows® Phone, AndroidTM-powered phones) and your tablet (iPad® and Android-powered tablets). Print subscribers can share All Digital Access with a family member. Free, unlimited access is provided to all print subscribers, no matter what type of subscription you have (daily, weekday, Weekender, etc.). You’ll also qualify for free digital access if your home delivery is provided by a third party (rather than by The New York Times directly). NYTimes home delivery subscriptions do not include e-reader editions, Times Premier content or digital versions of  The New York Times Crossword.
To activate your digital subscription, you’ll need to connect your home delivery subscription to your NYTimes.com account. If you haven’t already done so, visit this page to connect your accounts.
Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. iPhone and iPad are trademarks of Apple Inc. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.

Do you offer education and corporate discounts?

Yes. Our seat and site license programs allow schools, organizations and corporations to purchase digital access for multiple users at a group discount. To learn more, email groupsubs@nytimes.com or contact us online.
We also offer individual subscriptions at a discounted education rate. To learn more, click here.

Can I give a gift subscription to The Times?

Yes. To give unlimited access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps for as low as $30, click here.

What is the cancellation and refund policy?

You can cancel your subscription at any time. When you cancel, we will stop charging your account the following billing cycle. Each billing cycle is four weeks, so your unlimited access will continue for the remainder of the current four-week period.
View the full cancellation and refund policy >>

What if I don’t want to subscribe — can I still read NYTimes.com for free?

Visitors can enjoy 10 free articles (including blog posts, slide shows and other multimedia features) each calendar month on NYTimes.com, as well as unrestricted access to browse the home page, section fronts, blog fronts and classifieds. Your free, limited access resets every month: at the beginning of each calendar month, you’ll once again be able to view 10 free articles for that month.
NYTimes apps are free to download and install. After downloading an app, you can read 10 articles each month for free. At the beginning of each calendar month, another 10 articles will be available for free.
For nonsubscribers, articles from the New York Times archives from 1923 through 1980 are $3.95 each. Views of archived articles outside that date range are free but still count toward the 10-article monthly limit.


View our complete FAQ »






Copyright© 2015
The New York Times Company
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Feedback
Help












