Obama statement on Charleston shooting - Business Insider
Obama statement on Charleston shooting - Business Insider

























Politics






Follow BI










BI Intelligence
Events


 

















                                Trending                            


                                Tech                            


                                Finance                            


                                Politics                            


                                Strategy                            


                                Life                            


                                Sports                            


                                Video                            


                                All                            





















 







×








From





To















                You have successfully emailed the post.
            







OBAMA: 'I've had to make statements like this too many times'










Brett LoGiurato












Jun. 18, 2015, 12:25 PM


38,153














facebook





linkedin





twitter





email





print





 





Reuters/Jonathan Ernst 
See Also




White House fence jumper sentenced to 17 months in prison





There's an incredibly interesting image on the Charleston shooting suspect's Facebook page 





Police arrest 21-year-old suspected of shooting 9 people in South Carolina




President Barack Obama mourned nine people who were shot to death in a church in Charleston, South Carolina, saying the shooting late Wednesday night rekindled memories of a "dark part of our history."
In a short and somber statement from the White House briefing room on Thursday, Obama also restarted a debate over the nation's recent history with gun violence.
"I've had to make statements like this too many times," Obama said.
"At some point," he added, "we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other developed countries."
The FBI identified the suspect in the shooting as 21-year-old Dylann Roof of Columbia, South Carolina. The FBI later confirmed that Roof had been found and arrested in North Carolina. Roof's uncle said Roof was given a gun by his father for his 21st birthday.
Police are investigating the shooting as a hate crime.
According to CBS' Mark Knoller, this is the 14th time Obama has made a statement after a mass shooting. It was another example, Obama said, of innocent people being killed because someone who "wanted to inflict harm" had "no trouble getting their hands on a gun."
In a rather revealing moment, Obama acknowledged an understanding on the politics of the issue. The administration pushed Congress to pass new restrictions on gun ownership in 2013 after the massacre that killed 26 people — including 20 children — at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut. But the Senate failed to move forward on even the most basic bill Obama had pushed.
"It is in our power to do something about it," he said Thursday. "I say that recognizing the politics in this town foreclose a lot of those avenues right now. But it would be wrong for us not to acknowledge it. And at some point it's going to be important for the American people to come to grips with it, and for us to be able to shift how we think about the issue of gun violence collectively."
After the Sandy Hook shooting, Obama said that day was the "toughest" of his presidency.
Reuters/Jonathan ErnstObama with Vice President Joe Biden.Obama said he and first lady Michelle Obama knew members of the Emanuel AME Church, the historically black church where police said a gunman shot and killed nine people late Wednesday night. He said they knew personally the pastor who was among the victims. Vice President Joe Biden, visibly blinking back tears, joined Obama on TV on Thursday.
"There is something particularly heartbreaking about death happening in a place in which we seek solace," Obama said.
Obama also noted the history of the church.
"Mother Emanuel is, in fact, more than a church. This is a place of worship that was founded by African-Americans seeking liberty," he said.
"This is a church that was burned to the ground because its worshipers worked to end slavery. When there were laws banning all-black church gatherings, they conducted services in secret. When there was a nonviolent movement to bring our country closer in line with our highest ideals, some of our brightest leaders spoke and led marches from this church's steps. This is a sacred place in the history of Charleston and in the history of America."


SEE ALSO: More coverage of the South Carolina shooting







            More:

                                                        White House
Shooting
Barack Obama
South Carolina
















facebook





linkedin





twitter





email





print










Recommended For You




































OBAMA: 'I've had to make statements like this too many times'
OBAMA: 'I've had to make statements like this too many times'

President Barack Obama mourned nine people who...



















Recommended For You







 












Your Money



                    NASDAQ Composite                
4,922


                            +12.64                        



                            (+0.257%)
                        




                    S&P 500                
2,051


                            +4.63                        



                            (+0.226%)
                        




                    NYSE Composite                
10,690


                            +52.71                        



                            (+0.495%)
                        















Featured






Going to the doctor will be very different in the not-so-distant future


More "Industry IQ" » 






5 things to do with your money when you change jobs


More "Life Plan" » 






The original 'Apprentice' Bill Rancic: Here's the best advice I got from Donald Trump


More "Idea Factory" » 


 




Get Politics Emails & Alerts




Sign-Up

Learn More »





									Politics Select							


More




Featured








													Business Insider Select												




													Tech Select												




													Tech Chart Of The Day												




													Markets Chart Of The Day												




													10 Things Before the Opening Bell												




													Instant MBA												




													Breaking News												




													Business Insider Events												








Finance








													Finance Select												




													Markets Select												




													Monday Scouting Report												




													Your Money Select												




													Financial Advisor Insights												




													Smart Investor												








Strategy








													Strategy Select												




													Advertising Select												




													Retail Select												




													Careers Select												




													null												








Politics








													Politics Select												




													Military Select												








Life








													Life Select												




													Transportation Select												




													Education Select												




													Entertainment Select												








Tech








													Enterprise Select												




													Science Select												




													Mobile Chart Of The Day												




													E-Commerce Chart Of The Day												




													Payments Chart Of The Day												




													Digital Media Chart Of The Day												




													IoT Chart of the Day												








Charts of the Day








													Sports Chart Of The Day												








Top 10 Things








													10 Things In Tech You Need To Know												




													Closing Bell												








Sports








													Sports												


















Latest Research


The payments industry explained


Social media demographics 2015 report


How the IoT is transforming the insurance industry


The tablet market report



Read Business Insider On The Go

 Available for iPhone, iPad, Android, BlackBerry and Windows     
 







Find A Job




Tech Jobs


C-Level Jobs




Media Jobs


Design Jobs




Finance Jobs


Sales Jobs




See All Jobs »





Thanks to our partners
































* Copyright © 2015 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
                                        Terms of Service                    and
                                                            Privacy Policy.

Disclaimer
Commerce Policy




Powered by MongoDB
Stock quotes by YCharts
Made in NYC



International Editions:
AUSIDINMYSGUK 

























































