Charleston shooting suspect wore Apartheid flag patch - Business Insider
Charleston shooting suspect wore Apartheid flag patch - Business Insider

























Politics






Follow BI










BI Intelligence
Events


 

















                                Trending                            


                                Tech                            


                                Finance                            


                                Politics                            


                                Strategy                            


                                Life                            


                                Sports                            


                                Video                            


                                All                            





















 







×








From





To















                You have successfully emailed the post.
            







There's an incredibly interesting image on the Charleston shooting suspect's Facebook page 










Hunter Walker










Jun. 18, 2015, 12:40 PM


152,466



113 













facebook





linkedin





twitter





email





print





 





FacebookA photo of Charleston shooting suspect Dylann Roof with an arrow pointing to his Rhodesian and South African flag patches.A Facebook picture may provide some insight into the political beliefs of Dylann Roof, the 21-year-old man who has been identified by authorities as the suspect in a shooting that left nine people dead at a Charleston, South Carolina, church on Wednesday evening.
Authorities are investigating the shooting as a hate crime. The Emanuel AME Church where the crime took place is a historically black congregation. Witnesses have reportedly said the killer declared he was there "to shoot black people."
Roof was arrested on Thursday. Before he was taken into custody, the sheriff's office in Berkeley County South Carolina sent out two photos of Roof, including one from a Facebook profile that bears his name. In the Facebook photo, Roof is wearing two patches that have been identified by many observers as the flags of Rhodesia and apartheid-era South Africa.
Both of these flags represent defunct African governments whose regimes were controlled by white minorities. Both countries had racial segregation policies, and as a result they are admired by many American white supremacists.
Rhodesia, which was located in what is now Zimbabwe, existed between 1965 and 1979. It was a former British colony, but the country's white government unilaterally declared independence because the United Kingdom had a policy of not allowing its African territories to separate until they instituted systems that would ensure the black population would have a place in government. Rhodesia eventually came to an end after elections were held following a lengthy war between the government and guerilla forces.
During Rhodesia's existence, the British government refused to recognize the country. The United Nations also imposed sanctions on Rhodesia in an effort to pressure the white government to step down. Some American Ku Klux Klan leaders publicly supported the Rhodesian government.
The flag of Rhodesia, which can be seen below, featured the country's coat of arms. It includes the Zimbabwe bird, a national emblem based on sculptures found in the ancient ruins of the capital of the Kingdom of Zimbabwe.
Wikipedia
South Africa's apartheid regime lasted from 1948 until 1994. Because of the brutal segregation in the country, it was also subject to international sanctions. The apartheid system was removed after the country's first election in which citizens of all races were allowed to participate.
Because much of the white population of South Africa is made up of Dutch Afrikaner settlers, the country's apartheid-era flag includes a background based on a Dutch historical flag. In the middle of the South African version were three smaller flags: the Union Jack, to represent the former British colonies in the country, and two flags of two former Boer republics in the country. The apartheid-era flag is below.
Wikipedia


SEE ALSO: OBAMA: 'I've had to make statements like this too many times'  







            More:

                                                        Dylann Roof
Shooting
South Carolina
Africa



History
Flags
Facebook



















facebook





linkedin





twitter





email





print










Recommended For You
































 




Comments 






						Insiders
						9




						All Comments
						113




Apply To Be An "Insider" »







 Loading











There's an incredibly interesting image on the Charleston shooting suspect's Facebook page 
There's an incredibly interesting image on the Charleston shooting suspect's Facebook page 

A Facebook picture may provide some insight...



















Recommended For You







 












Your Money



                    NASDAQ Composite                
4,922


                            +12.64                        



                            (+0.257%)
                        




                    S&P 500                
2,051


                            +4.63                        



                            (+0.226%)
                        




                    NYSE Composite                
10,690


                            +52.71                        



                            (+0.495%)
                        















Featured






Going to the doctor will be very different in the not-so-distant future


More "Industry IQ" » 






5 things to do with your money when you change jobs


More "Life Plan" » 






The original 'Apprentice' Bill Rancic: Here's the best advice I got from Donald Trump


More "Idea Factory" » 


 




Get Politics Emails & Alerts




Sign-Up

Learn More »





									Politics Select							


More




Featured








													Business Insider Select												




													Tech Select												




													Tech Chart Of The Day												




													Markets Chart Of The Day												




													10 Things Before the Opening Bell												




													Instant MBA												




													Breaking News												




													Business Insider Events												








Finance








													Finance Select												




													Markets Select												




													Monday Scouting Report												




													Your Money Select												




													Financial Advisor Insights												




													Smart Investor												








Strategy








													Strategy Select												




													Advertising Select												




													Retail Select												




													Careers Select												




													null												








Politics








													Politics Select												




													Military Select												








Life








													Life Select												




													Transportation Select												




													Education Select												




													Entertainment Select												








Tech








													Enterprise Select												




													Science Select												




													Mobile Chart Of The Day												




													E-Commerce Chart Of The Day												




													Payments Chart Of The Day												




													Digital Media Chart Of The Day												




													IoT Chart of the Day												








Charts of the Day








													Sports Chart Of The Day												








Top 10 Things








													10 Things In Tech You Need To Know												




													Closing Bell												








Sports








													Sports												


















Latest Research


The payments industry explained


Social media demographics 2015 report


How the IoT is transforming the insurance industry


The tablet market report



Read Business Insider On The Go

 Available for iPhone, iPad, Android, BlackBerry and Windows     
 







Find A Job




Tech Jobs


C-Level Jobs




Media Jobs


Design Jobs




Finance Jobs


Sales Jobs




See All Jobs »





Thanks to our partners
































* Copyright © 2015 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
                                        Terms of Service                    and
                                                            Privacy Policy.

Disclaimer
Commerce Policy




Powered by MongoDB
Stock quotes by YCharts
Made in NYC



International Editions:
AUSIDINMYSGUK 

























































