Missing Virginia student Hannah Graham spotted on video outside bar | fox4kc.com  
Missing Virginia student Hannah Graham spotted on video outside bar | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 49°
High 67°





Tue


					53°  75°
					


Wed


					54°  77°
					


Thu


					58°  70°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Missing student Hannah Graham spotted on video walking in opposite direction of apartment

Posted 3:52 pm, September 17, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (WTVR) — Tuesday afternoon a helicopter searched the area outside of McGrady’s Irish Pub where 18-year-old Hannah Graham was last spotted on surveillance video, at 12:46 a.m. Saturday.
Graham, a second-year University of Virginia student, can be seen on the street alone and headed in the opposite direction of her apartment, police said.
“I’ve been trying not to cry about it,” said Kristin who lives nearby.
She said the helicopter is an eerie reminder for UVa students who run or walk in this area, and now worry about their own safety.
“Even as I was walking tonight, I was thinking about this,” she said.
Graham has now been missing for nearly four days and the groups of several different search teams still have not found any sign of her. Unfortunately, police said, the family did not know Graham was missing until Sunday.
Police in Charlottesville, Virginia are looking for missing college student Hannah Elizabeth Graham. The University of Virginia student was last heard from on early Saturday morning, September 13, 2014 when she sent a text to friends at about 1:20 a.m. (Photo: Charlottesville Police/WTVR)
Police did say a blood hound picked up Graham’s scent right outside the Irish pub; but where it led them, they’re not saying.
“I don’t want to get into any more details about the dog track, we’ve got things to follow up on,” said Police Capt. Gary Pleasants.
Search teams originally combed through other parts of Charlottesville on Monday, after they read a text Graham sent at 1:20 a.m., which stated that she was lost near 14th and Wertland Streets.
Now investigators don’t believe she was in that area at all.
“We don’t know whether it was auto correct on her phone or she just typed it in wrong, we have no idea,” Capt. Pleasants said.
He said police are now working with the Federal Bureau of Investigations to retrieve phone data that might show where that text was sent from.
“A lot of things happen when you send out messages and text, and we’re following that,” Pleasants said. Police said Graham was “fairly well intoxicated” at the time she was last seen.
The timeline of the last hours anyone heard from her is as follows:
-11: 50 p.m. Friday, Graham was last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in the 200 block of 14th Street NW.
-12:45 a.m. Saturday she was seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street.
-1:20 a.m. Saturday, she sends a text to friends saying she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets.
Google maps indicates the distances between these places would make for substantial walks, especially for person “fairly well intoxicated,” as police and friends say she was.
Pleasants said the camera outside McGrady’s Irish Pub showed Graham walking “in front of the building for several minutes, apparently it appears, maybe even talking to someone, and then walking away –leaving east bound on Grady at 12:46 a.m..”
That would be the opposite direction of her apartment, police said.
Graham is from Northern Virginia, and it is reported that she graduated from West Potomac High School in Fairfax, in 2013.
Police described Graham as a 5’11” white female with a skinny build. She has blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. She was last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cut outs.
Anyone with information about Graham was asked to call Charlottesville Police Department at 434-970-3280 or CrimeStoppers at 434-977-4000.
“Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends. She is highly responsible and organized,” her family said in a statement released through the University Tuesday.
“We express our sincere gratitude to law enforcement and everyone who is involved in the search for Hannah. We also thank the University for the full attention they are devoting to the situation. The kindness and support of so many – her friends at U.Va., particularly her friends on the Ski Team, her friends from high school, our neighbors, and the larger community – mean so much to us at this difficult time.”



Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Graham 











 






Have a news tip?
Click here to tell FOX 4!







 

 


Popular



Royals sweep Angels in ALDS, advance to AL Championship Series to play Baltimore



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Blood moon returns, and this time it’s bigger



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Gone Girl rakes in $38 million this weekend



Theater buff loses 121 pounds, nabs the leading role in his life



Fit with FOX 4: Healthy foods















News

Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham


News

Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody


News

Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Parents make desperate plea to help find their daughter



 


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder


News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond


News

Police: Missing Mo., woman left to seek new life


News

Murder victim’s sister, best friend not surprised by who has been charged in her death



 


News

Police: Texas solider beat daughter to death


News

UK woman accused of harassing Madeleine McCann family found dead


News

8-yr-old Kansas girl freed herself from kidnappers






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















