As new videos surface, police seek to question man about missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham | WJLA.com 
As new videos surface, police seek to question man about missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






VIRGINIA
As new videos surface, police seek to question man about missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham

By The Associated Press, Jeff Goldberg, Robert Lyles, ABC 7 News

			September 18, 2014 - 11:39 am Updated: September 19, 2014 - 10:39 am
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (WJLA/AP) - Police said Thursday they were seeking to talk to a man who was seen by a witness with a University of Virginia student the night she disappeared.
Continue reading


Surveillance video
















ABC 7 News at 11



















Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham. (Photo: Charlottesville PD)






Surveillance photo of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham from her apartment building early on the night she disappeared. (Photo: Charlottesville PD)



More on this story


Parents fear 'foul play'

Search area expands

Student reported missing



Charlottesville Police Capt. Gary Pleasants said the witness came forward Wednesday night after two more grainy surveillance videos were released of Hannah E. Graham from the Downtown Mall.
The 18-year-old second-year student was last seen at the mall, a popular row of shops and restaurants, on Friday night.
Pleasants said one video shows Graham outside a pizza shop. The witness was captured on the video as he exited the store and followed Graham. Another video from a jewelry store two minutes later also shows the witness following Graham.
The witness told police that he followed her because she looked like she was in distress.
"It looked like she was at least in some physical distress and he was concerned for her," Pleasants said.
The witness, whose name wasn't released, told police that before he could catch up with Graham, another man approached her and put his arm around her.
"From the interaction, he (the witness) thought they knew each other, so he thought she was fine and he left," Pleasants said.
Pleasants said police want to talk to the second man, who he described as a "person of interest."
The man was described by police as black, between 5-foot-10 and  5-foot-11, 250 to 285 pounds, with a close-shaved head, goatee, and a slight "beer belly." Police said the man was in his late 20s to early 30s and was wearing black jeans and a white t-shirt.
Pleasants said this man was seen with Graham in the the 300 to 500 blocks of East Main Street on the Downtown Mall around 1 to 1:15 a.m. on Saturday.
"We certainly need to talk to this person and see what his interaction was," Pleasants said.
The man isn't seen in either video. The second video appears to show someone next to Graham, but Pleasants said it was her reflection in the store window.
Two other videos released earlier show Graham walking past a pub and, minutes later, running past a gas station.
The university's student council held a "Bring Hannah Home" candlelight vigil on the Charlottesville campus Thursday night.
She was last heard from early Saturday morning, when she texted a friend after leaving a party to say she was lost. Her friends reported her missing on Sunday. Police have searched a wide area northeast and east of the campus without success.
Her parents, John and Susan Graham, have said that they fear foul play, but Police Chief Timothy Longo said police have no substantial evidence to support that.
Longo said Graham met friends for dinner at a restaurant Friday night, dropped by parties at two off-campus housing units, and left the second one alone. Longo said Graham had been drinking.
Graham is 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. The search has involved local police, the Virginia State Police, University of Virginia police and the FBI, which is processing leads, Pleasants said. The search has also included canine teams and helicopters.
Police have interviewed about 50 people and have established a designated tip line for information on Graham. The number is (434) 295-3851.
The city, the university and other donors were offering a reward totaling $50,000 for information leading to the cause of Graham's disappearance.


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Charlottesville, 
Missing UVa. Girl, 
University Of Virginia, 
Videos, 
Surveillance, 
Footage, 
Search, 
Vigil, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Virginia, 
Alexandria VA, 
Fairfax County








Recommended For You










More in "Virginia"



Alexandria's King Street reopens after water main break repairs completed



Is $96M Fort A.P. Hill combat center worth the cost?



Tall truck knocks out power lines in Alexandria












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Great Mills High School in Maryland on lockdown due to verbal threat
















Silver Spring math teacher, Sarah Manchester, wins $1 million on 'Wheel Of Fortune'









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit









Nationals playoff tickets go on sale next week









Ancient skeleton couple found holding hands for 700 years in England









Police confident Va. search site will yield answers in 1975 Md. Lyon sisters disappearance





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

