Search crews harden resolve to find Hannah Graham (+video) - CSMonitor.com  
Search crews harden resolve to find Hannah Graham (+video) - CSMonitor.com





 


 
 

















DC Decoder
Security Watch

 
































World





All World


Africa

Africa Monitor


Americas

Latin America Monitor


Asia Pacific
Asia: South & Central
Europe
Middle East

Olive Press






People Making a Difference

Change Agent
Latest News Wires


Progress Watch
Security Watch

Terrorism & Security
Backchannels
Reality Check
Under the Radar
Security Voices
Cyber Conflict Monitor






Global News Blog
Global Issues
Latest News Wires
Specials

Africa's AIDS Orphans
Little Bill Clinton
Hostage The Jill Carroll Story
Difference Maker


World Topics



 


USA





All USA


Politics

The Vote
The Monitor Breakfast
Play Gaffe Dodger the presidential election game
Latest News Wires


DC Decoder

Decoder Buzz
Decoder Voices
You Asked






Education
Elections

President
House
Senate
Governors
Vox News
From the Wires
Tea Party Tally
Election Topics


Foreign Policy




Justice
Military
Society
Sports
USA Update
Latest News Wires
Specials

Patchwork-Nation


USA Topics



 


Commentary





All Commentary


The Monitor's View
Readers Respond
Global Newsstand
Upfront Blog

Monitor Political Cartoons
Specials

100 years of Monitor journalism


Commentary Topics







 


Business





All Business


The Bite
Tax VOX
The New Economy
Saving Money
In Gear
Paper Economy
Robert Reich
Latest News Wires
Business Topics




Guide to Giving

America's Top 50 charities: How well do they rate?
America's Top 50 charities in 2013 ranked by total income







 


Energy / Environment





All Energy / Environment


Alternative Energy
Global Warming
Energy Voices
Habitat / Wildlife
Latest News Wires
Energy/Environment Topics







 


Innovation





All Innovation


Tech
Tech Culture
Responsible Tech
Pioneers
Horizons
Energy
Latest News Wires
Innovation Topics







 


Science





All Science


Science Topics







 


Culture





All Culture


Arts
Music
Movies

Monitor Movie Guide


TV
Poetry
Verbal Energy
The Home Forum
Culture Cafe




Family

Modern Parenthood


Food

Stir It Up!
Recipe Categories


Gardening

Diggin' It


Religion
Articles on Christian Science
Latest News Wires





 


Books





All Books


Book Reviews
Chapter & Verse
Readers' Picks
Latest News Wires







 


Take Action





All Take Action


Environment
Education
Conflict Resolution
Disaster Relief and Recovery
Human Trafficking







 




4 Free Issues




Subscribe
Give a Gift
Manage Account
Daily News Briefing


 
























 USA
Latest News Wires






Search crews harden resolve to find Hannah Graham (+video)






Editors' Picks








4 Free Issues


 

Email


More


























			The rise of 'redneck TV'
		















			Border crisis from the other side: One Guatemalan mother's journey
		















			On eve of Brazil presidential election, is the Amazon at stake? (+video)
		















			NFL Week 5 preview: How Texans, Cardinals, and Bengals can grab road wins
		






 


Search and rescue crews have vowed to continue combing the Virginia countryside for Hannah Graham, a University of Virginia student who has been missing for three weeks.


By
Jonathan Drew, Associated Press

October 5, 2014 




About video ads












Charlottesville, Va. — Charlottesville's police chief said Sunday that an anguished statement from the parents of a missing University of Virginia student has given investigators the resolve to carry out a difficult search of hundreds square miles of countryside.Police Chief Timothy Longo said that law enforcement is aggressively searching areas surrounding Charlottesville – many of which are mountainous, hilly, or thick with brush – for Hannah Graham, who disappeared on Sept. 13.A team of about 100 law enforcement officers and other trained searchers were combing through the countryside Saturday and Sunday looking for any sign of the college sophomore. Teams have been searching every day since Graham was reported missing.
					Recommended: 	
															
								
		
	
				
	
		
														Infographic
			Crime falls in the US. Are you safer today?
		
On Saturday, her parents made an emotional plea for whoever is responsible for the 18-year-old's disappearance to help find their daughter. In the videotaped statement, Sue Graham said: "Please, please, please help end this nightmare for all of us." The Grahams also thanked law enforcement for their efforts.


Infographic
			Crime falls in the US. Are you safer today?
		





Photos of the Day
			Photos of the weekend
		

Longo said the statement shows the "pain, the grief and the anguish" that the Grahams are going through. He read their words aloud to the search team on Saturday."They went out here yesterday with a clearer understanding of the importance of finding Hannah Graham," he said.Longo said that law enforcement has received more than 3,300 tips for their search. He asked area property owners to check their land."If you have a well on your property, search that well. If you have an abandoned structure, search that structure," he said.Longo also said all-terrain vehicles, aircraft, and mounted officers are searching rural Albemarle County, parts of which are hilly or mountainous."Lots of these areas are very difficult to get to," he said.Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., a 32-year-old Charlottesville man, has been charged with "abduction with intent to defile" in the disappearance of Graham. Police say forensic evidence also connects the 32-year-old Charlottesville man to the 2009 slaying of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student.Longo declined to answer questions on the case against Matthew. He also said he couldn't discuss the investigation into Harrington's death.Sharon Jones, a canine handler and president of the nonprofit search organization Dogs East, has been assisting the search with a black German Shepherd named Gyro. Gyro is trained to detect the scent of any living human or body.Asked about what challenges the searchers face, she noted the duration of the search and difficult brush that the dogs are trained to break through: "The dogs and the handlers are getting, just, tired."But she added, "As long as we're needed, we'll be here."Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.







Related Stories


 




Infographic


			Crime falls in the US. Are you safer today?
		









			Suspect in Hannah Graham case had been accused of sexual assault twice (+video)
		







			Police made judgement call on suspect in Hannah Graham case (+video)
		







			Where's Hannah Graham? Police arrest suspect in case of missing student (+video)
		







					What'd we miss? Tell us what angles to cover next.



Share this story:




More
Email
Print



















About these ads




Popular Now










			Syrian Kurds give women grenades in last-ditch defense against Islamic State
		















			13 survival stories from around the world
		















			Mass grave found in Mexico raising fears it could hold bodies of missing students (+video)
		















			US poor and middle class give more to charity, but wealthy pull back
		















			Pa. cop-sniper manhunt enters 3rd week: Can Eric Frein ever be caught? (+video)
		








 




 











Could you pass a US citizenship test? Find out.



View Gallery







 







4 Free issues Subscribe








About these ads








Make a Difference
Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.

TAKE ACTION






Follow Stories Like This
Get the Monitor stories you care about delivered to your inbox.













 
 






About these ads
 




				We want to hear, did we miss an angle we should have covered? Should we come back to this topic?
				Or just give us a rating for this story. We want to hear from you.
			


Your name:



Your e-mail address:




Your comment:




Loading...


Loading...


Loading...















 









Global Galleries






			Photos of the weekend
		






Editors' picks






			US poor and middle class give more to charity, but wealthy pull back
		






Doing Good






			In a small Maine town, it took a community to build a library 
		






Business






			Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) splits. Can it be a tech industry leader again? 
		






Military






			In a first, 3 women pass Marines Combat Endurance Test, toting 80-lb. packs 
		






Chapter & Verse






			Pizza Hut celebrates 30th anniversary of BOOK IT! program
		






USA






			West African community in Dallas rallies around family of Ebola patient
		






Asia: South & Central






			Can Pakistani 'VIPs' learn to wait in line? They may be forced to.
		






USA Update






			Facebook promises stricter research guidelines. Can users take it at its word?
		






Asia Pacific






			Times Higher Education World rankings: Asian universities make gains (+video)
		






Science






			What drives the monarch butterfly's 2,000-mile sojourn? (+video)
		









































Stay Current. Go Far.Discover the Monitor Difference





About
Contact Us
Subscribe
E-Readers
Advertise With Us
Careers
Find us online


Content Map
Text
Multimedia
Corrections
Articles on Christian Science





© The Christian Science Monitor. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy.

























 














































