Police arrest Jesse Leroy Matthew in case of missing UVA student, Hannah Graham - NY Daily News 

Police arrest Jesse Leroy Matthew in case of missing UVA student, Hannah Graham - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Police arrest Jesse Leroy Matthew in case of missing UVA student, Hannah Graham The 32-year-old was arrested camping on a Galveston, Texas beach after charged with abducting the 18-year-old University of Virginia student on Tuesday, Charlottesville police said at an evening press conference. Matthew had been on the lam since Saturday night, when police say he led them on a high-speed chase from their police station.  BY   Nina Golgowski     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Wednesday, September 24, 2014, 5:21 PM Updated: Thursday, September 25, 2014, 11:45 AM  A A A        Share this URL                   
	The man wanted in the abduction of 18-year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Graham has been arrested in Galveston, Texas, authorities announced Wednesday.

	Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., who was charged Tuesday with felony abduction with intent to defile Graham, had been on the run since Saturday night when Charlottesville police said he led them on a high-speed chase after avoiding questions about her Sept. 13 disappearance.

	The 32-year-old, who was captured on surveillance video walking with the teen near her school just before she vanished early that morning, is believed to be the last person to have seen her.

	Authorities said they finally caught up with him in Galveston on Wednesday, more than 1,300 miles southwest of Virginia. He is now expected to be extradited.      KTRK/ABC 13 Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. is in custody in the disappearance of Hannah Graham after being captured camping on a Texas beach on Wednesday.    KTRK/ABC 13 Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. is in custody in the disappearance of Hannah Graham after being captured in Texas on Wednesday.    Previous Next      Enlarge  

	Galveston County Sheriff's deputies investigated a call about a suspicious person camping in a tent on a beach in nearby Glicrest, Click2Houston.com reported. A license plate check of Matthew’s light blue Nissan Sentra alerted police that they had a high-profile fugitive, but Matthew surrendered without incident.

	“The real hero of today is an employee, a deputy with the Galveston County Sheriff’s Office,” Adam S. Lee, special agent in charge of the FBI office in Richmond, said of the arrest.

	Graham remains missing with a body yet to be found, said Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo.    Facebook Authorities in Charlottesville, Va. are asking residents in the surrounding counties to search their land for any signs of missing 18-year-old student, Hannah Elizabeth Graham.   

	"We’re asking everyone within the sound of my voice to help find Hannah Graham," said Longo, who announced that a reward for information on Graham’s whereabouts has reached $100,000.

	"This case is nowhere near over," he added. "We have a person in custody and there's a long road ahead of us and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham."

	Longo concluded the press conference without taking questions.       Galveston County Sheriff's Office 
	Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. is believed to be the last person to have seen Graham. Enlarge      Facebook 
Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. has been missing since Saturday and is wanted in Graham's abduction. Enlarge  
Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. is believed to be the last person to have seen Graham, who disappeared on Sept. 13. He was arrested in Galveston, Texas after charged with her abduction on Tuesday.
  

	Matthew’s capture follows Charlottesville police's request on Wednesday to residents in surrounding counties to search their land for any sign of the missing sophomore.

	That plea for help on the 11th day of the sophomore's disappearance comes as authorities say evidence tested on the home and car belonging to Matthew have come back, NBC reported.

	Details from the results were not immediately released by authorities, but articles of clothing were removed from Matthew's apartment on Tuesday.    Ryan M. Kelly/AP Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo announces that Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. has been arrested in Galveston, Texas during a news conference in Charlottesville, Va., on Wednesday.   

	Later that same day Matthew was charged in Graham's abduction.

	"We reached that point where the Commonwealth felt we had sufficient probable cause to seek an arrest warrant," Longo said of their decision without citing exact evidence for the felony charge.

	Two dozen items were later removed from Matthew's apartment, along with eight "known samples that we would use for comparison purposes," Jeffrey Ban, director of the Department of Forensic Science's Central Laboratory in Richmond, told NBC.    Ryan M. Kelly/AP FBI special agent Adam Lee announces that Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. has been arrested in Galveston, Texas during a news conference in Charlottesville, Va., on Wednesday.   

	Ban said that any samples taken from Matthew's home will be tested for any possible link to other missing person cases in the central Virginia area, as standard procedure.

	In the last five years there have been at least three other disappearances of young women in the area.

	Growing concern that Matthew may be related to other missing women cases was enough for prosecutors in nearby Nelson County to publicly address such rumors on Wednesday — particularly his suggested link to the 2013 abduction and murder of 17-year-old Alexis Murphy.      Andrew Shurtleff/AP Volunteers search an area along Ivy Road in Charlottesville, Va. on Sunday during a massive search effort by the community to find missing UVA student Hannah Graham.    Andrew Shurtleff/AP Volunteer Linda Cassell, left, walks with search team leader Brian Pace, as they search along the railroad tracks behind the Charlottesville Downtown Mall where Graham was last seen.    Andrew Shurtleff/AP Volunteer Mary Boese of Richmond, Va. searches an area along Ivy Road in Charlottesville, Va., on Sunday.    Previous Next       Enlarge  

	In that tragic case, the convicted teen's killer, Randy Taylor, unsuccessfully tried to implicate a man resembling Matthew.

	That man, identified as Dameon Bradley, was later cleared by authorities in the case.

	"...there is no credible evidence at this time that suggests any third party was involved in the Randy Taylor case and certainly no evidence at this time exists that Jesse Leroy Matthew, Jr. had anything to do with the disappearance of Alexis Murphy," prosecutors stated in their release.      

	"If such evidence is discovered, Nelson County authorities along with the FBI and the Virginia State Police will act immediately," they concluded.

	On Wednesday, due to the latest charges against him, the U. Va.'s Medical Center announced that Matthew has been suspended without pay from his role as a nursing assistant. He will also "no longer be working" as a part-time volunteer with the Covenant School's football program, NBC reported.

With Jason Molinet

ngolgowski@nydailynews.com

On a mobile device? Click here to watch video.    Related Stories  Cops charge Jesse Matthew with abducting missing UVA student       Home of man seen with missing UVa student searched again       Man seen with missing UVA student wanted for reckless driving        2,000 volunteers hunt for missing UVA student       'Major break' in hunt for UVA student Hannah Graham: cops          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      7   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     8   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     9   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary     10   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog                   BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      