'Major break' in missing UVA student case as police question person of interest, search his car and apartment in hunt for Hannah Graham - NY Daily News 

'Major break' in missing UVA student case as police question person of interest, search his car and apartment in hunt for Hannah Graham - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             'Major break' in missing UVA student case as police question person of interest, search his car and apartment in hunt for Hannah Graham 'We know who he is. We know where is': police chief says of person of interest. Home and car searched of man who was with missing 18-year-old student Hannah Graham. Cops say they don't have probable cause to arrest him.   BY   Deborah Hastings    ,      NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Friday, September 19, 2014, 11:42 AM Updated: Friday, September 19, 2014, 7:14 PM  A A A        Share this URL                Facebook Hannah Elizabeth Graham, an 18-year-old University of Virginia student, is the focus of a massive search and police investigation. Police reported a major break in the case on Friday.    
	Virginia police searched a car and an apartment and questioned a person of interest Friday who was seen buying alcohol with University of Virginia student Hannah Graham shortly before she disappeared Sept. 13 in downtown Charlottesville, authorities said.

	Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said new witness accounts led investigators to an off-campus apartment where they interviewed a 32-year-old black man with long dreadlocks who was seen on surveillance video putting his arms around the 18-year-old as she walked along an outdoor mall around 1 a.m. that morning. The man was not identified and Longo said prosecutors determined there was no probable cause to arrest him.

	"We know who he is. We know where he is," Longo said. And investigators want to talk to him again, he said. "I'm not fond of the term 'person of interest,''' he said. "But let me say this: we are interested in him."

	Investigators declined to answer any questions about the man or offer more details about why he was not taken into custody.

	Longo said Graham and and the man had entered a restaurant called Tempo on the mall, and purchased alcohol. They left about 15 minutes later in a car, the same one police searched Friday.      

	"We have every reason to believe Ms. Graham was in that vehicle," said Sgt. Jim Mooney of the Charlottesville police.

	Meanwhile, state emergency officials have recruited scores of volunteers to search for the missing sophomore.

	The Virginia Department of Emergency Management was organizing the search, and volunteers were required to register at a website, helpfindhannah.brmrg.org.

	Only registered volunteers can participate in the search, and all volunteers were subject to background checks, officials said.    WTVR Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo speaks with reporters about a person investigators are looking to speak to again in relation to the case.   

	The latest efforts to find the 5-foot-11-inch, brown-haired, blue-eyed student came after thousand students gathered on campus for a candlelight vigil Thursday night to pray for her safe return.

	Some 2,000 students packed into the McIntyre Amphitheatre on campus to console one another as various student groups performed Graham's favorite songs and addressed the crowd.

	Some brought tokens representing some of the missing student's favorite hobbies, including skis and a saxophone, while other volunteers passed out her favorite treats, including Starburst candies, NBC News reported.

	Several student leaders addressed the crowd, opening their remarks by telling the audience, "I am here for you," the Cavalier Daily reported.      Ryan M. Kelly/AP Police Chief Timothy J. Longo speaks with reporters at a Hessian Hills apartment as the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham continued Friday.    Ryan M. Kelly/AP Charlottesville and Albemarle County police search the off-campus apartment of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham  on Friday.    Previous Next      Enlarge  

	A banner hung behind the podium said "Bring Hannah Home."

	Beneath it hung a British flag, a nod to Graham's roots there.

	"We all just want to come be here for Hannah," Eliza Costas, a fellow second year, the school's name for sophomores, told NBC News.

	"We are keeping her family in our prayers and hope for the best."      Andrew Shurtleff/AP Students attend a vigil for missing UVA student Hannah Elizabeth Graham on Thursday night.    Andrew Shurtleff/AP Lani Galloway, right, speaks Graham at the student-led vigil Thursday night.    Previous Next      Enlarge  

	On Wednesday, Graham's parents, John and Susan, released a statement saying they feared "foul play" in their daughter's disappearance.

	"Hannah is beyond precious to us, and we are devastated by her disappearance. It is totally out of character for us not to have heard from her," the Grahams said.

	"We are so very grateful for everyone involved in the search for Hannah," the family said. "Like you, we will not rest until we find her and she comes home.

With News Wire Services

On a mobile device? Click here to see the video.    Related Stories    Man followed missing UVA student on night she vanished: video          Details, videos emerge in missing UVA student case          Police release photos of missing UVA student           


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      7   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     8   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     9   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary     10   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog                   BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      