Police searching for missing University of Virginia student who vanished over weekend - NY Daily News 

Police searching for missing University of Virginia student who vanished over weekend - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Police searching for missing University of Virginia student who vanished over weekend Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, was last heard from at 1:20 a.m. Saturday when she sent a text message to friends, her school said in a statement Monday. The freckled, blue-eyed, student who stands 5-feet-11 has not been heard from since, said Charlottesville police.  BY   Nina Golgowski     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Monday, September 15, 2014, 5:50 PM  A A A        Share this URL                Facebook Authorities in Charlottesville, Va. are searching for 18-year-old Hannah Elizabeth Graham, who has been missing since the weekend.    
	Authorities are desperately searching for an 18-year-old University of Virginia student who has been missing since early Saturday.

	Hannah Elizabeth Graham was last heard from at 1:20 a.m. that morning when she sent out a text message to friends, her school said in a statement Monday.

	The freckled, blue-eyed student who stands 5-foot-11 with a slender build was headed to a party but never arrived, Charlottesville police told WWBT.

	Since then no one, including her family, has heard from Hannah who is described as last seen wearing a black crop top with mesh cutouts.
      Facebook 
	The 18-year-old, a University of Virginia student, has been missing since early Saturday morning. Enlarge      Facebook 
	Her school said she sent a text message to her friends Saturday morning. That was the last time anyone heard from the teen. Enlarge  
	Graham, pictured here, was last heard from early Saturday morning, said her school.
  



	Police said bloodhounds were sent out to help their search on Sunday evening, "but that search did not turn up anything useful."

	University of Virginia president Teresa A. Sullivan released a statement on her disappearance Monday that informed the public of their efforts. It also pledged the school and its community as "united in our deep concern" for Hannah.

	"Our University Police Department was notified of the report Sunday evening, and this morning has contacted all students, faculty and staff to make them aware of the situation. Our Office of Student Affairs has provided this information to parents as well," Sullivan stated.

	Anyone with information on her whereabouts — or if they saw her anytime since Friday night — is asked to call the Charlottesville Police Department at (434) 970-3280.

ngolgowski@nydailynews.com

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE
         Related Stories  Body of missing North Carolina student found: police       Troubled Maryland mom who went missing is found          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      7   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     8   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     9   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary     10   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog                   BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      