Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham' - The Daily Progress: Local  
Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham' - The Daily Progress: Local









            Close
        




















Place an Ad


Advertise With Us


Subscribe


Manage Subscription


Print Ads









            Welcome! 
        

Login|Signup


Login|My Dashboard|Register













Logout|My Dashboard












Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham' - The Daily Progress: Local

















69°  ClearCharlottesville, VA
























The Daily Progress




Home
 
News



Local


UVa


Business


Crime


Economy


Politics


Virginia Politics


In Case You Missed It


Multimedia


Email Alerts


RSS Feeds

 



















 
Opinion



Letters to the Editor


Editorials


Guest Columnists


McKenzie

 



















 
Sports



Cavalier Insider


High School


Whitey 365


Ratcliffe On


College Football


Football


College Basketball


Basketball


The Daily Run


Central Virginia Golf Magazine


Virginia Outdoor Weekly

 



















 
Entertainment



Local


The Latest


Calendar


Contests


Showtimes

 



















 
Lifestyles



Yesteryears Column


Vital Signs Column


Religion


Church Directory


Celebrations

 



















 
Obituaries
 
Weather
 
Magazines



Charlottesville Woman


The Rural Virginian


Homestyle


Readers Choice


Silver Linings


Welcome

 



















 
Video
 
Contests
 
Auto



Top Autos


Find a Car


Sell Your Car

 



















 
Homes



Top Homes


Top Rentals


Sell Your Home


Commercial


Mortgage Center


Vineyards & Farms

 



















 
Classifieds



Print Ads


Top Stuff


Pets


Place an Ad

 



















 
Jobs



Find a Job


Top Jobs


Employers

 



















 
Businesses














Monday, October 6, 2014 


















Home


News



Local





Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham'

StoryComments 
Image (1)


        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Graham search - Longo
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy J. Longo addresses reporters at a briefing Sunday at a staging area for the search team looking for missing UVa student Hannah Graham.



 













        Posted: Sunday, October 5, 2014 6:14 pm
         | 
        

                Updated: 10:42 am, Mon Oct 6, 2014.
            



Longo: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham'
By Derek Quizon
The Daily Progress 




About 110 law enforcement officers from around the state were in Albemarle County this weekend to search for clues in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Officers covered more than 70 percent of an eight-mile radius around the city of Charlottesville, following guidelines set by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
Searchers did not report any new findings Sunday afternoon but said they’re continuing to follow up on nearly 3,300 tips that have been received.
Depending on the new information coming in, officials may expand the search radius or comb through certain areas again, said Mark Eggeman, search and rescue coordinator for the Virginia Department of Emergency Management.
“If we feel there’s a need to go back and search those areas, we’ll re-task and do that,” he said.
On Sunday morning, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy J. Longo said the search party would be searching “every square inch of Albemarle County this weekend and we’re going to find Hannah Graham.”
The party included members of the Virginia State Police, as well as officers from Fairfax, Spotsylvania, Stafford and Hanover counties.
“If you can think of a law enforcement agency that touches this community, they’re here [with] boots on the ground today,” Longo said.
The group also has enlisted the help of DOGS-East, a volunteer canine search-and-rescue team out of Fredericksburg.
Sharon Johnson, one of the volunteers, was there with her German shepherd, Gyro. The dog is trained in rescue of live victims and recovery of deceased victims, Johnson said. Gyro’s skills are especially useful in uninhabited and rural areas, she said, where the dog can sniff out people or remains in thick vegetation.
“It’s proving to be a challenge,” Johnson said of the terrain. “We do the best with what we’ve got.”
Searchers will be focusing on rural areas, Longo said, and are asking residents to search their properties, as well.
First Sgt. Mike Berry, of the Virginia State Police, is leading about 60 officers around the county. The team conducted searches of 32 different designated areas on Saturday and Berry said he expected to comb through more on Sunday.
Longo and Berry said they are searching for any clues they can find — including articles of clothing or objects Graham may have been carrying when she disappeared — but both said they haven’t given up on the possibility the 18-year-old student is still alive.
“This is a rescue effort,” Berry said. “We’re here to find Hannah and bring Hannah home.”
Stranger things have happened, Eggeman said.
“How many of us thought that Elizabeth Smart was dead? Or the women kept in the basement in Ohio?” he said. “There’s always a possibility.” 
 


Derek Quizon is the Daily Progress' higher education reporter. Contact him at (434) 978-7265, dquizon@dailyprogress.com, or @DPHigherEd on Twitter.
 

























            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Local
        
        on 
        
            Sunday, October 5, 2014 6:14 pm. 
            
                Updated: 10:42 am.












 













tab 0
tab 1




























                    Like us on Facebook!
                







Latest Local Offers





        
        Stop in at H.L. Lang’s
        


            Stop in at H.L. Lang’s to see our Morganite & Diamond Jewelry. Other varieties of styles also available including Rose Gold w/ Diamonds.






        
        Now Accepting New Patients!
        


            Kilby Pediatrics is now accepting new patients! Call 540.829.4900 today to schedule an appointment.






        
        Lifetime Warranty
        


            LIFETIME WARRANTY only at Harrisonburg Ford. Contact us for more details!






        
        Current Auctions
        


            Visit JLRauctions.com To View Current Auctions!






        
        Receive up to a $350 MasterCard prepaid card from Doug's Maytag!
        


            Receive up to a $350 MasterCard prepaid card by mail with the purchase of a select Maytag brand laundry PAIR. 






        
        Buy 10, Get 1 FREE!
        


            Buy 10 Gallons of Milk and Get 1 Gallon FREE!




› View more local offers





tab 0
tab 1
tab 2






























                    Featured Businesses
                


Better Homes and Gardens Real Estate IIIWhen you work with Better Homes and Gardens Real Estate III, you harness the power of a well-respected national brand as well as the largest real estate company in Central Virginia. Long known for its commitment to excellence, technology resources, and market savvy, Better Homes and Gardens Real Estate III brings the freshest, new, national brand to our local market:
• Service. Homes are sold “person to person,” one home at a time by our wide selection of individual REALTORS®• Technology. With our latest tools and technology we can assist you with all your real estate needs. • Knowledge. Our “Market Knowledge” is your competitive advantage.• Local Expertise. Because we are deeply rooted in the communities we live in, we can provide the best local resources to create a smooth transaction for you.
 When you partner with Better Homes and Gardens Real Estate III, you also get all the benefits of dealing with a company and individuals who are deeply rooted in the communities we live in and serve.Spring CreekSpring Creek is a carefully-planned, amenity-filled gated community that is perfectly nestled in the Piedmont of Virginia. Homes are priced from the mid $200s.  
The community has breathtaking views rolling hills, and woods that offer privacy within the community. Enjoy the convenience of nearby restaurants and major retail at The Shops at Spring Creek and an easy drive to Charlottesville (15 min), Short Pump in Western Richmond (45 min), and Fredericksburg (1 hr). Our residents also enjoy the convenience of the nearby hotel, medical and professional offices that are in the Spring Creek Business Park.
Our residents with school-age children have a variety of top-ranked public and private schools close to home to choose from. Spring Creek is the gem of Louisa County offering the best in amenities, convenience, security, and privacy for the homebuyer that is just starting out, starting their family or enjoying their retirement years—there’s something for everyone.
Take comfort in 24-hour gated security, love being a part of a community that showcases an award-winning golf course and our NEW 17,667 sq. ft. Clubhouse with:

A full service restaurant and bar
 Golf pro shop
 State-of-the-art golf locker rooms
Event space for golf tournaments and private events.
9,500 sq. ft. Spring Creek Sports Club with 25-meter salt water pool, fitness center with sauna, catering kitchen, banquet rooms, snack shop, tennis, basketball, street hockey, and playground.
Miles of paved walking and hiking trails

Spring Creek Golf Course was recently recognized as the only residential golf course in Virginia to make the Top 100 by Golf Week.
Buy now, build later—while choosing your own builder. Golf and conservation lots now available for purchase.
For information or a private tour of the community contact Spring Creek Realty 540-832-2444
181 Club House Way, Zion Crossroads VA 22942 www.springcreekliving.comMontague Miller & Co. RealtorsMontague Miller & Company REALTORS® is dedicated to providing our clients with unparalleled service and efficiency by creating a customized real estate experience. This has been our focus since 1948, when Montague Miller & Co. began assisting clients sell and purchase Charlottesville homes.For over sixty-five years, we have grown and expanded our services to cover a large portion of Central Virginia. In addition to our two Charlottesville locations Downtown and Westfield, we are also located in the Main Street communities of Amherst, Culpeper, Madison, and Orange. Our REALTORS® represent a wealth of knowledge in the field and are consistently honored by their local Realtor associations. Agents from our firm have been awarded REALTOR® of the Year, Ethics in Action, Honor Society and more from the Charlottesville Area Association of Realtors as well as local awards including Best of Cville Real Estate Agent for the past few years. Our company is a member of Leading Real Estate Companies of the World™, the world’s largest network of top independent local and regional brand-name brokerage firms. LeadingRE™ has over 500 broker firms, represented by 4600 offices and 140,000 real estate agents in more than 30 countries worldwide.Arbor Tech Supply 
Arbor Tech is your home for Arbor Supplies and Equipment.  You will find everything you need to climb, cut and pull trees as well as all the clothing and safety equipment that goes with it.Graystone Homes IncGraystone Homes, Inc. is a Virginia-based custom homebuilder specializing in tailoring our homes to fit our customers' individual needs and desires while working within their budget. Our company is committed to old fashioned quality and craftsmanship. We use only the best materials, building with meticulous attention to every detail - even the ones you don't see.We have gained the respect of our customers by giving them a home they can be proud of at an affordable price. We recognize that our best advertisement is you, the customer.Valley Nissan of Staunton 
Valley Nissan, previously Staunton Nissan located in the Shenandoah Valley. We have been serving drivers in Staunton, VA, Harrisonburg, VA and Charlottesville, VA for years. Virginia and West Virginia drivers come to us for quality, affordable vehicles along with some of the best financing plans in VA. Contact us now to schedule your test drive! We've got a quality team, the best in the Valley to help get you into a new vehicle. Nissan Vehicles For Sale Near Harrisonburg, VA At our dealership in Staunton, VA, we proudly serve customers new vehicles from the Nissan brand. If you're looking for a new Nissan in Staunton, VA, then look no further than Valley Nissan. We have so many great new Nissan models at our Staunton, VA dealership. Stop by our showroom to get a firsthand look at one of our many top-rated vehicles. Staunton, VA Used Cars At our Staunton, VA dealership, we will help you get approved for a used car loan in minutes. Our diligent and experienced staff is committed to making your purchase of a pre-owned vehicle as easy as possible. They will make used car financing straightforward and painless, getting you on the road in no time. We understand that our customers are as different as our products, so we aim to provide financing options that are custom-tailored for their individual needs. 370Z, Altima, Armada, Cube, Frontier, GT-R, Juke, Maxima, Pathfinder, Hybrid, Quest, Rogue, Sentra, Titan, Versa, Versa Note, Xterra.
































The Daily Progress, Charlottesville, VA ©  2014 BH Media Group Holdings, Inc.  Terms and Conditions | Work With Us



TITLE



Daily Progress:


Contact Us


Email Alerts


Mobile Alerts


RSS


Site Search


Mobile Apps


Find Charlottesville Jobs




TITLE



Partners:


Cavalier Insider


Data Center


Charlottesville Tomorrow


cvillepedia


HeadlineVA




TITLE



Regional Partner Links:


Culpeper Star Exponent


Waynesboro News Virginian


Orange County Review


Madison County Eagle


Greene County Record













Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






            Need an account? Create one now.
        


























