Search continues for Hannah Graham despite suspect’s arrest - NY Daily News 

Search continues for Hannah Graham despite suspect’s arrest - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Search continues for Hannah Graham despite suspect’s arrest It’s been nearly two weeks since 18-year-old Hannah Graham disappeared after a night of partying in Charlottesville. She was last seen with Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., who was arrested in Texas on charges related to her disappearance.  BY   Nicole Hensley     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Saturday, September 27, 2014, 6:32 PM  A A A        Share this URL                Facebook Searchers continue to look for the missing University of Virginia student, Hannah Graham, who was last seen Sept. 14.    
	The chances of finding Hannah Graham dwindle each day even though a suspect has been arrested on abduction charges related to her disappearance.

	Search and rescue crews in Virginia have expanded their search to the hills surrounding Charlottesville where Graham disappeared nearly two weeks ago after being last seen with Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr.

	“We have maintained a presence on the scene searching every day since this happened. We have not stopped searching,” Mark Eggeman of the Virginia Department of Emergency Management said.

	The Charlottesville Police Department is asking just about everyone, including homeowners and real estate agents, to thoroughly check their properties as well as vacant buildings for any sign of the 18-year-old University of Virginia sophomore.
   AP The suspect’s father doesn’t believe his son is capable of killing or hurting anyone and would have likely given the girl a ride home.   

	“You’re looking for signs of passage, you’re looking for the subtle things that most people who are not trained to do this will walk right past,” Eggeman said.

	The lone suspect in Graham’s disappearance is Matthew, who was apprehended on a beach near Galveston, Texas, a remote beach town described by authorities as “the end of the road” on the Bolivar Peninsula. He was extradited back to Albemarle County on the charge of abduction with intent to defile or sexually molest.
   AP Jesse Matthew Jr. was arrested in Texas and extradited back to Virginia on Friday to face charges of abduction with intent to defile.   

	Despite such a violent allegation, the suspect’s father insists his son is not capable of killing or hurting someone.

	“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” the suspect’s father, Jesse Matthew Sr., told WTVR-TV. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.”

	The 32-year-old has not given investigators any hint to Graham’s location or condition so at this point, it’s up to volunteers and search crews with dogs to cover in and around Charlottesville based on more than 1,600 tips.

	“Every day there’s new information, there’s a new lead,” Eggeman added. “It’s like building blocks, it’s one thing leads to another.”

	Her peers at the University of Virginia are staying hopeful Graham comes home safely by passing out orange - her favorite color - ribbons to tailgaters at a Saturday football game, according to WCAU-TV.

With News Wire Services.

nhensley@nydailynews.com
   Related Stories  Man accused of abducting UVA student appears in Texas court       Texas woman recalls moment she locked eyes with UVA suspect       UVA abduction suspect complains about jail bed           


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In             
Crime Video


    Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.       

         COLD CASES  & TRUE CRIME        Justice Story: Dana Sue Gray A PECULIAR ITEM recently came up for sale on a website that caters to people who collect things created, owned, or even just touched by murderers.        Rooney's wife slain by lover Carolyn Mitchell  was one of those girls who seemed destined to make headlines. And did she ever.
        Justice Story: John du Pont The 1856 British Guiana one-cent magenta is a tiny octagonal red inch-wide stamp. Philatelic experts say that when it is auctioned at Sotheby’s in New York on June 17, this singular postal artifact is expected to fetch something around $20 million, the largest price ever paid for a stamp. By weight and size, it may be the most valuable object in the world. The stamp is just one souvenir of the strange legacy of John E. du Pont, a man who had everything money could buy but threw it away in one moment of blind violence.        Justice Story: Vampire king At more than 300 pounds and with dreadlocks cascading past his waist, Marcus Wesson, 57, was not what people generally think of when they hear the word “vampire.”        Justice Story: Deadly mother-in-law A Chicago undertaker summoned to a physician’s office took one look at a corpse on an exam table and diagnosed what should have been clear to the doctor.      Previous Next          Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     2   Seattle woman attacked by bridesmaids over hot dog: cops     3   Sister of alleged Pa. cop-killer calls on him to give up     4   Georgia teenager killed after high school football game     5   Man who beheaded Timothy McLean in 2008 may go free one day     6   Mass. woman stashed drugs under butt enhancer: police     7   Man kills friend for 'poking' girlfriend on Facebook         8   Wash. shop owner killed chasing down shoplifters      9   Conn. high school staff covered up student-teacher sex scandal: cops      10   Slur sparked outrage in murder of woman in Bali hotel room: suspect          1   Man who beheaded Timothy McLean in 2008 may go free one day     2   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     3   Georgia teenager killed after high school football game     4   Mass. woman stashed drugs under butt enhancer: police     5   DMV chief's son caught drunk driving: cops      6   Texas woman, 34, who posed as 15-year-old high school student released from jail      7   Army major, wife charged with brutal abuse of adopted kids                


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      