Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham | fox4kc.com  
Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 49°
High 67°





Tue


					53°  75°
					


Wed


					54°  77°
					


Thu


					58°  70°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police say surveillance footage appears to show a man following Hannah Graham

Posted 6:37 am, September 18, 2014, by CNN Wire, Updated at 07:13am, September 18, 2014 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 



 Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, has been missing since Saturday, Sept. 13. She is a University of Virginia student. 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Several surveillance videos show her walking and running alone. But police say new footage of a missing University of Virginia student appears to show someone following her the night she disappeared.
Business surveillance cameras along the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville, Virginia, captured video of a man following Hannah Graham early Saturday, Charlottesville Police spokesman Lt. Ronnie Roberts told CNN.
A man later came to the police department and told officers he was following Graham because she looked distressed, authorities said.
Police have been searching for the 18-year-old sophomore since Sunday.
Her parents say they’re worried something happened to her after she left a gathering with friends Friday night in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“Hannah is beyond precious to us,” John and Susan Graham said in a statement released by police Wednesday. “We are truly devastated by her disappearance. It’s totally out of character for us not to have heard from her, and we fear foul play.”
The teen’s mysterious disappearance comes nearly five years after the unsolved killing of another student in the area, sparking fears from some that there could be a connection.
Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009. Her remains were found on a farm months later. Police have yet to track down her killer, and her family has long said they suspected there could be other victims.
Could there be a link to the Harrington case?
“Certainly the question has arisen. It’s certainly a legitimate question,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters Wednesday.
“If there comes a time where we believe there is a substantive link to those two investigations, we’ll share that with you,” he said.
So far, the police chief said, investigators haven’t found anything to tie the two cases. And they haven’t found any sign of foul play, despite the concerns the teen’s parents have expressed.
“As a parent, I’d be very concerned, but we don’t have any substantive evidence to confirm that,” he said. “But you know, they’re speaking from their heart.”
Surveillance videos offer clues
Police told WTVR that they examined two new videos, which showed an unidentified white male following Graham. They say the man later came to the police station to tell them he followed her to make sure she was okay because she seemed in physical distress.
The man told police that he saw a black man approach Hannah, and that man put his arm around her. The unidentified man told police she didn’t react, and seemed to know him.
Police describe Graham, a sophomore, as a straight-A student, an accomplished athlete and a good friend.
She’s about 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles, the university said in a release asking for tips about the teen’s disappearance.
She left a dinner with a group of friends around 11 p.m. Friday. Around 1:20 a.m. Saturday, she sent a text to friends saying she was lost, CNN affiliate WTVR reported.
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
Investigators have tracked down several surveillance videos that show her that night outside a pub, near a gas station and in a downtown shopping mall, Longo said. But it’s not clear where she’s going or whether she’s in trouble.
One video shows her running along the road near a Shell station.

That initially concerned investigators, Longo told reporters.
But in later videos, he said “it does not appear at least at that point that she’s being pursued.”
Investigators are looking for more surveillance videos that they believe could show Graham in downtown Charlottesville, where a witness spotted her.
They’ve interviewed 50 people and received 100 tips in the case, police said.
And the search is far from over. As time passes, investigators say their search area grows. Search teams from the Virginia Department of Emergency Management are helping, CNN affiliate WVIR reported.
“This investigation has been aggressive and will continue to be aggressive,” Longo said.
CNN affiliate: Corridor has ‘infamous reputation’
Gil Harrington told CNN affiliate WTVR that it’s too soon to draw a direct connection between her daughter’s death and Graham’s disappearance.
“Your mind goes there, but I think that’s premature in a way,” she told WTVR. “We have the possibility of having a good outcome with Hannah. We need to keep that in mind.”
Right now, Gil Harrington has a poster with pictures of the University of Virginia student on her fridge, beneath the word “MISSING.”
Through “Help Save the Next Girl,” an organization founded after her daughter’s disappearance and death, she’s pushing residents of Charlottesville to call in tips.
On Wednesday, the organization tweeted that the Harringtons had left a message in large letters taped on Charlottesville bridge spelled out their support of the search: “PLEASE FIND HANNAH.”
“Your mind just sickens,” Gil Harrington told CNN affiliate WVIR. “You think, how can it be, another girl taken.”
This isn’t the first time a woman has gone missing in the area. The disappearances of Harrington and Graham, along with several other past cases in the area known as the Route 29 corridor has given the area an “infamous reputation,” WTVR says.
“I don’t know. Either there is a commonality or a crime spree,” Harrington told WTVR. “We have long passed a critical mass that needs looking at. If you look at the map of missing and abducted along Route 29 — it’s not a normal pattern.”



Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Graham, missing UVA student 








			2 comments		




 

kenneth

I would say that white guy who came forward is your prime suspect, ¨Yeah, and then a big black man came and gave her a hug… ugh, yeah! Am I free to go now?¨




							September 18, 2014 at 3:48 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

ItsJust Penny

The police are now saying that she left with the black guy with the dreadlocks that is shown walking behind the white guy in the café video footage and then walking beside her in the jewelry store footage. http://www.insidenova.com/headlines/police-search-home-car-connected-to-hannah-graham-case-but/article_865681c2-4040-11e4-a18b-0710e0693940.html




							September 19, 2014 at 5:28 pm						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Have a news tip?
Click here to tell FOX 4!







 

 


Popular



Royals sweep Angels in ALDS, advance to AL Championship Series to play Baltimore



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Blood moon returns, and this time it’s bigger



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Gone Girl rakes in $38 million this weekend



Theater buff loses 121 pounds, nabs the leading role in his life



Fit with FOX 4: Healthy foods















News

Police search car, apartment for leads into what happened to Hannah Graham


News

Missing student Hannah Graham spotted on video walking in opposite direction of apartment


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham abduction suspect to previous abduction


News

Sought in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, Jesse Matthew now in custody


News

Parents: ‘This person might be involved’ in Morgan Harrington’s murder



 


News

Parents make desperate plea to help find their daughter


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond


News

Murder victim’s sister, best friend not surprised by who has been charged in her death


News

New Mexico police officer believes he saw a ghost on surveillance camera



 


News

Man killed his girlfriend’s 11-yr-old daughter, tried to stage it as a suicide, police say


News

Ruskin High School fallout lingers on following Friday night fights


News

Police: 2 New Mexico boys confess to preschool pumpkin heist






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts







































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















