Ace News Desk 2014  | UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance 
Ace News Desk 2014  | UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance




Menu
Skip to content
#AceNewsDesk:`Publisher’s – Groups – Social – Media – Books – Music – Have Your Say’







Ace News Desk 2014 
`Important News, Views and Opinions '


Search










09.24.14


        	by #AceNewsGroup 


UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance


#AceNewsGroup:#AND2014 
Originally posted on WTVR.com:
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — University of Virginia President Teresa Sullivan issued a statement regarding campus safety in the wake of second-year student Hannah Graham’s disappearance.
The statement was posted on a page where updates are provided concerning Graham’s missing person case. Graham, age 18, was last seen by friends when she left a party and walked about a mile and a half on her own, to the downtown mall area in Charlottesville.
Sullivan’s safety announcement states that patrols have been increased and the number of vans available to students has been increased to help with safe rides.
Her letter is below.
To the University Community:
For more than a week, we have hoped and prayed for Hannah Graham and her family. Her safe return remains our highest priority, and I continue to urge you to share with police any information that might be related to the case by calling the dedicated…
View original 308 more words


About these ads




Ace News Desk:TwitterFacebookTumblrPrintMoreGooglePocketEmailLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

		This entry was posted in #AceNewsDesk. Bookmark the permalink.
			


Post navigation
← Private school ‘vetted’ suspect Jesse Matthew Jr. as volunteer football coach Don’t assume there is ‘irrefutable DNA evidence’ against Jesse Matthew →



Please leave a comment and l will always reply :) Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 



 


Connect



							Facebook						



							Twitter						



							Linkedin						



							Tumblr						



 
Search



Follow me on TwitterMy Tweets  Recent Posts 

Catholic editor: Maybe it’s time for Bishops to stop taking federal money


GK-1284: INSPIRING WOMEN KALPANA SAROJ!


PRAGUE CONFERENCE on International Child Removal in Council of Europe Member States – in a Nutshell


Sharia bank caught circulating counterfeits


Barack Obama – The Lies in one video – Take note Scotland!


Ten Pennies Worth       
Mike Adams & Dav… on The CDC Does Nothing As Ebola…Opinion – Sino… on Opinion – Secret Report…Syrian Revolution’s… on Caucasus Emirate eulogizes sla…Organophosphates kil… on Behind The Secret Walls Of The…Opinion – Some… on Opinion – Secret Report… 
 Ace RT NewsRadioactive reindeer: Mushrooms blamed for Cesium spike in Norway October 6, 2014​Unexpectedly high levels of radioactivity have been found in Norway’s reindeer this autumn – almost 30 years after a radioactive cloud spread in the atmosphere of the country following the Chernobyl tragedy, say the country’s scientists.Read Full Article at RT.com RTNATO promises to protect Turkey against ISIS threat October 6, 2014NATO will not abandon Turkey if it is attacked by Islamic State fighters which are closing in on the member state's border from Syria, the alliance's secretary-general, Jens Stoltenberg, said.Read Full Article at RT.com RT2,000 evacuated as ISIS flag raised on outskirts of Kobani, Syria October 6, 2014The black Islamic State flag has been raised over a building on the outskirts of a strategic town of Kobani on the Syrian-Kurdish border, according to various sources. However, Kurds defending the border town say that the city has not yet fallen.Read Full Article at RT.com RTDetention extension? Australian spy agency’s power to hold without charge reviewed October 6, 2014Following Australia’s passing of draconian anti-terror laws late September, the country took another step in the direction. This may allow its security services to detain anyone without charge even before other methods of questioning have been exhausted.Read Full Article at RT.com RTTyphoon hits Japan: 50 injured, 4 swept out to sea, Tokyo drenched (VIDEO) October 6, 2014At least one person died and five remain missing after powerful Typhoon Phanfone struck Japan, bringing rough seas heavy rain and strong winds. About 50 people have been injured throughout the islands.Read Full Article at RT.com RTNobel for ‘inner GPS’: Discoveries of brain’s mapping cells get high medical award October 6, 2014The brain’s “inner GPS” – neurons that allow mapping and navigating in a complex environment - scored a Nobel Prize for medicine. The 2014 award went to American-British neurologist John O'Keefe and Norwegian scientist spouses May-Britt and Edvard Moser.Read Full Article at RT.com RT​Sweden plans to recognize Palestine to kick-start talks – ambassador October 6, 2014Sweden won’t backpedal on its intention to recognize the state of Palestine and believes the move will help kick-start direct talks between the Palestinians and Israelis. Israel and the US both warned Stockholm against the move.Read Full Article at RT.com RTNew NATO chief reassures Poland amidst Ukraine crisis October 6, 2014NATO’s new secretary-general has stated that its rapid reaction force can be deployed whenever necessary in an interview on Polish television aimed at reassuring eastern bloc countries that they have support in the aftermath of crisis in Ukraine.Read Full Article at RT.com RT75% chance Ebola will reach France by end October, 50% for UK – scientists October 6, 2014Scientists estimate there’s a 75 percent chance the Ebola virus could spread to France and a 50 percent chance it could reach UK by the end of October. The latest research analyzes the pattern of infection and airline traffic.Read Full Article at RT.com RTTrojan horse: ISIS militants come to Europe disguised as refugees, US intel sources claim October 6, 2014Islamic State militants are planning to insert operatives into Western Europe disguised as refugees, claim US intelligence sources, who unencrypted locked communications of the caliphate’s leadership.Read Full Article at RT.com RT Ace HPUK NewsGraphic Footage Of Anni Dewani's Body Shown To Court In 'Honeymoon Murder' Trial October 6, 2014Graphic footage of Anni Dewani’s body has been shown to a court in South Africa as the murder trial of her former husband began in sensational circumstances. The footage showed forensics officers opening the door of the abandoned taxi where Anni Dewani died, showing her lying stained with blood on the back seat, with her long hair moving in the breeze. MORE: […] Louise RidleyISIS Flag Flies Over Syrian Border Town Of Kobane As US-Led Air Strikes Fail To Subdue Militants October 6, 2014Militants have erected the black flag of the Islamic State over a building in the strategically important town of Kobane, Syria – just one mile from the border with Turkey. The area has witnessed intense fighting in recent weeks, with Kurdish militia battling to retain control of the town from the encroaching Islamists hordes. The symbolic raising of the fla […] Paul ValeWild Weather Strikes UK As 61-Year-Old Dies After Being Hit By Falling Masonry October 6, 2014A 61-year-old man has died after he was hit by falling masonry during windy conditions. Humberside Police said it was too early to say whether the stormy weather was responsible for the incident in Bridlington, East Yorkshire, this afternoon. Officers were called to Cliff Street in the seaside town just before 1pm today after reports the falling masonry hit […] James Martin'X Factor' Judge Simon Cowell Promises New Project On 'Dolphin And Whale Issues' Follwoing 'Xtra Factor' Controversy October 6, 2014Good news for fans of marine life now, as Simon Cowell has promised his Twitter followers that he’s planning an upcoming project to bring the plight of dolphins into the mainstream. Wait... what? You may recall that last week, the music mogul came under fire over a preview clip for an episode of ‘The Xtra Factor’, which showed the boys category taking part i […] Daniel WelshJason Garnett's 17-Hour Erection Sees Medics Drain Two Pints Of Blood From His Penis October 6, 2014A man who suffered a 17-hour-long erection has revealed the grisly means by which medics eventually relieved his suffering. Jason Garnett was found to have been afflicted with priapism, a persistent and painful erection, which does not subside after ejaculation. Doctors had to drain two pints of blood from the 23-year-old’s penis to reduce the pressure on hi […] Sara C NelsonRobert Cerqua 'Stabbed Identical Twin Brother To Death On New Year's Eve' October 6, 2014A man stabbed his identical twin brother to death in a "fit of temper" during a drunken argument at the family home on New Year's Eve, a court has heard. Robert Cerqua, 31, is accused of killing his brother Christopher in the fight which took place in the kitchen of the house in Hythe, Hampshire, last year. Nicholas Haggan QC, told a jury at W […] Jack SommersWhy Brenda Leyland, Found Dead After Tweets About The McCanns, Was Not Your Typical Troll October 6, 2014Asked to describe your typical internet "troll", few would have conjured up the image of a Brenda Leyland, a well-to-do middle class mother with her neat bob and Eeyore keyring. Her death alone in a hotel just a few days after being confronted at her Leicestershire home by Sky News' Martin Brunt, who was armed with a dossier of "trolling […] Jessica ElgotLiberal Democrats Now Tied With Greens In Fourth Place - New Poll October 6, 2014Nick Clegg's efforts to rally the Liberal Democrat faithful have been awkwardly undermined as a new poll finds the party has slipped to fourth place. In a survey carried out by Tory peer Lord Ashcroft, just 7% of voters would vote for the Liberal Democrats, a 1% drop on last month leaving them at level-pegging with the Greens, who rose 3% in the polls. […] Asa BennettTwo Kangaroos Fight It Out In An Australian Street October 6, 2014Watching this scene, you could be forgiven for thinking that it's two men in kangaroo costumes. But it's not. It's two actual kangaroos having a fight in an Australian suburb - on the Central Coast, New South Wales, to be precise - which surely means that this can be described as 'a kangaroo street brawl'. Of course, setting it Wagne […] Andrea Mann'Britain From Space' Picture DEBUNKED October 6, 2014This picture appears to show the British Isles, rotating majestically in rich sunlight from space. It's certainly dramatic, and it's won immediate fans on Twitter. Unfortunately, since we're terrible killjoys, ever since it showed up on Reddit yesterday, we've assumed it's too good to be true. And so it is: .@will_full Definitely a 3 […] Michael Rundle Ace HPUS NewsAn error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later. Ace NYT NewsSupreme Court Clears Way for Gay Marriage in 5 States October 6, 2014The Supreme Court’s decision was a major surprise and suggests that the justices are not going to intercede in the wave of decisions in favor of same-sex marriage at least until a federal appeals court upholds a state ban. By ADAM LIPTAKFirst Draft: Court’s Gay Marriage Decision Is in Line With Public Opinion October 6, 2014The Supreme Court decision to deny review of five same-sex marriage cases is in line with an American public that supports same-sex marriage but says its legality should be left to each individual state to decide. By DALIA SUSSMANBloomberg Named an Honorary Knight October 6, 2014Former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who made London the European home of both his company and charity, was honored by Queen Elizabeth II on Monday. By MATT FLEGENHEIMERA Smuggled Girl’s Odyssey of False Promises and Fear October 6, 2014Cecilia, a 16-year-old Guatemalan seeking a better life in the United States, fell prey to “coyotes,” the smugglers who lure migrants, on a trip that devolved into outright abduction. By DAMIEN CAVE and FRANCES ROBLESArtsBeat: B.B. King Cancels Tour Because of Illness October 6, 2014Mr. King, 89, canceled eight shows, including a stop in New York. By MICHAEL COOPEREbola Patient in Dallas Still in Critical Condition, C.D.C. Chief Says October 6, 2014Dr. Thomas R. Frieden said the 10 people who have had direct contact with the patient, Thomas E. Duncan, have not developed warning signs of infection. By TIMOTHY WILLIAMSLatest News: Supreme Court, Ebola, Hewlett-Packard October 6, 2014Here’s what you need to know to start your day. By ADEEL HASSAN and VICTORIA SHANNONIsrael Protests Sweden’s Intention to Recognize Palestinian State October 6, 2014Israel fears Swedish recognition could lead other major European countries to follow suit, pre-empting the results of negotiations. By ISABEL KERSHNERCity Room: New York Today: Changing Campus Rules for Consent October 6, 2014Monday: Clear skies, a floating supercrane, and a look at SUNY’s new guidelines on sexual assault. By ANNIE CORREALGeoffrey Holder, Dancer, Actor, Artist and Much More, Dies at 84 October 6, 2014Mr. Holder used his manifold talents to infuse the arts with the flavor of his native West Indies — and in television ads for “the Un-Cola” in the 1970s and ’80s. He was 84. By JENNIFER DUNNING and WILLIAM McDONALD Ace Reuters NewsDeveloping countries blast rich-world farm subsidies at Rome talks October 6, 2014ROME (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Wealthy countries are still subsidizing their farmers at the expense of developing nations, undermining market access for some of the world's poorest producers, two farm ministers told a Food and Agriculture Organization meeting on Monday.    British parliament to hold symbolic vote on Palestine status October 6, 2014LONDON (Reuters) - British lawmakers will next week hold a symbolic parliamentary vote on whether the government should recognize Palestine as a state, a move unlikely to shift official policy but designed to raise the political profile of the issue.    Algeria army ambushes, arrests group on Niger border October 6, 2014ALGIERS (Reuters) - Algeria's army on Monday ambushed and arrested a group trying to cross its border with Niger as the military increases border controls, fearing militants spilling over from neighbouring Libya and Mali.    Islamic State raises flag in eastern Kobani, Kurds say town has not fallen October 6, 2014MURSITPINAR Turkey (Reuters) - Islamic State raised its flag on a building on the outskirts of the Syrian frontier town of Kobani on Monday after an assault of almost three weeks, but the town's Kurdish defenders said its fighters had not reached the city centre.    Hezbollah loses 10 fighters in Sunday clashes with Nusra: source October 6, 2014BEIRUT (Reuters) - Ten fighters from Lebanon's Shi'ite Hezbollah group were killed in clashes with fighters from al Qaeda's Syrian wing in eastern Lebanon on Sunday, a source close to the group said on Monday.    Peru mine's jailed foe on course for vote win: partial results October 6, 2014LIMA (Reuters) - A jailed opponent of Newmont Mining Corp's proposed $5 billion Conga mine was headed for re-election in Peru's Cajamarca region, provisional results and a pollster's quick count showed on Monday.    EU lawmakers reject Hungarian culture nominee, disrupting Juncker plan October 6, 2014BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Parliament's culture committee voted on Monday to reject the nomination of Hungarian Tibor Navracsics as education and culture commissioner, though it accepted that he could be a part of the EU executive in another role, lawmakers said.    Tunisia Islamists face secular parties as election campaign opens October 6, 2014TUNIS (Reuters) - Tunisia's main Islamist party began campaigning on Monday preparing to face off with secular opponents and former regime officials in the second free elections since the North African state's 2011 uprising.    Britain complains of further Spanish incursion off Gibraltar October 6, 2014LONDON (Reuters) - Britain accused Spain on Monday of sending a state research vessel on a "serious incursion" into waters around Gibraltar, a British Mediterranean outpost which Madrid wants to reclaim.    Kenyan president to go to Hague court in personal capacity October 6, 2014NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenya's president said on Monday he would attend a hearing at the International Criminal Court this week, the first sitting world leader to appear in The Hague-based court, although he said he would be going in a personal capacity.     Ace Food & DrinkAn error has occurred; the feed is probably down. Try again later.Archives 
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014

Categories 
#AceFriendsNews

#AceNewsDesk

Ace Friends History

Uncategorized


Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com 
 
 


Blog at WordPress.com.
The Newsworthy Theme.		
















Follow

Follow “Ace News Desk 2014 ”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 856 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com











Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



%d bloggers like this:





 





