UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance | WTVR.com  
UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







UVa. increases safe ride program in wake of Hannah Graham’s disappearance

Posted 1:03 am, September 24, 2014, by Alix Bryan, Updated at 01:11am, September 24, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 



 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — University of Virginia President Teresa Sullivan issued a statement regarding campus safety in the wake of second-year student Hannah Graham’s disappearance.
The statement was posted on a page where updates are provided concerning Graham’s missing person case. Graham, age 18, was last seen by friends when she left a party and walked about a mile and a half on her own, to the downtown mall area in Charlottesville.
Sullivan’s safety announcement states that patrols have been increased and the number of vans available to students has been increased to help with safe rides.
Her letter is below.
To the University Community:
For more than a week, we have hoped and prayed for Hannah Graham and her family. Her safe return remains our highest priority, and I continue to urge you to share with police any information that might be related to the case by calling the dedicated tip line at 434-295-3851.
As the investigation has progressed, I have heard from students, parents, employees, community members, and others who have offered their thoughts and expertise. Many have also given generously of their time through volunteer efforts. I am very grateful for this outpouring of support.
We also have heard comments related to safety and security, and I write today to acknowledge those concerns and continue to address them.
We have taken several specific steps to enhance security and to increase resources available to the University community.  Along with local law enforcement, our University Police Department has increased patrols and the presence of officers. The University has expanded the number of vans operated through our SafeRide program. This fall, we introduced a new program called “TipSoft” that students can use to submit crime tips anonymously. Information about TipSoft and other resources can be found at the University Police site. We encourage all members of the University community to download this free app.
Last Friday, Student Council President Jalen Ross sent a message to students that focused on safety issues and resources. Vice President and Chief Student Affairs Officer Patricia Lampkin echoed many of the same points in a message to parents. Both of these safety-related communications, and all of the University’s messages, can be found at this site.
These steps are a beginning, and we will continue to gather information and examine how we can make our University community as safe as possible.
All of us have important roles to play in this ongoing effort. Learning about the resources that are available to you can help you avoid putting yourself at risk. Look out for one another, and call 911 if you need help or suspect a problem. Let’s help each other stay safe, as we continue our search for Hannah Graham.
Teresa A. Sullivan


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 








			1 Comment		




 

#AceNewsGroup

Reblogged this on Ace News Desk 2014  and commented:
#AND2014 




							September 24, 2014 at 12:26 pm						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Heroes Among Us
Who is the hero in your life? Click here to nominate them so Greg McQuade and CBS 6 News can share their story.







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Richmond billboards aid in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham beseech students to be safe this weekend


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state



 


News

Tempo Bar owner: We did not serve Hannah Graham alcohol


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’


News

University of Virginia students, football fans wear ‘Hope for Hannah’ ribbons


News

Search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham has profound impact on childhood friend



 


News

One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


News

WATCH: Lawyer for Jesse Matthew, suspect in Hannah Graham’s disappearance, goes off on reporter


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts






























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















