Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond | fox4kc.com  
Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond | fox4kc.com






GoSearch







 Watch Now: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox4kc.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Morning Show
On-Air
Contests
Sports
Community




Weather 

66°







66°


Low 49°
High 67°





Tue


					53°  75°
					


Wed


					54°  77°
					


Thu


					58°  70°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond

Posted 8:07 am, September 25, 2014, by CNN Wire 

FacebookTwitterPinterestGoogleLinkedInEmail 




(CNN) — A Texas judge Thursday ordered Jesse Matthew, a suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, held without bond pending his extradition to Virginia.
In an appearance before Galveston County Judge Mark Henry, Matthew declined to request a court-appointed attorney to fight either his extradition or a Galveston County charge of giving false information to a peace officer. Henry later told CNN affiliate KPRC that he expects Virginia authorities to collect Matthew “within a day or two.”
Authorities found Matthew on a Texas beach some 1,300 miles from where he’s wanted in the disappearance.
“We have a person in custody, but there’s a long road ahead of us, and that long road includes finding Hannah Graham,” Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters Wednesday night.
Matthew, who had been sought on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile, was arrested in Galveston County. He was found on the beach Wednesday afternoon in Gilchrist on the Bolivar Peninsula, according to the Galveston County Sheriff’s Office.
Deputies were tipped off to Matthew’s whereabouts when they got a call about a suspicious person camping on the beach. One responded and ran the license plate of that person’s vehicle. It came back as wanted, CNN affiliate KPRC reported.
Matthew did not resist arrest, KPRC said.
Earlier, Matthew’s lawyer had little to say about his client.
“I am Mr. Matthew’s attorney,” James Camblos said outside his Charlottesville office.
“I was hired on Saturday. That’s the only thing that I’m going to confirm at this point. The family and I — nobody is making any statements at this point in time. We might later on, but right now we are not,” he said.
His comments came a day after authorities obtained an arrest warrant for his client, who police believe was the last person with Graham.
Matthew willingly went to a police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest, Longo said. He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, the police chief said.
Authorities are now offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of Graham, 18, a second-year student at the University of Virginia.
They have received 1,500 tips so far in the case and are urging anyone with information to call the police tip line at 434-295-3851.
Graham was last seen on September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Investigators have been looking for her since, and over an increasingly large area.
“We’re asking for a broader community search with property owners,” Longo told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360″ on Wednesday night.
Specifically, he said he wants owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities have previously searched Matthew’s apartment and car. Although they have declined to discuss the specifics of what might have been found, potential evidence was sent to a lab for analysis.




Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: News Topics: Jesse Matthew 











 






Have a news tip?
Click here to tell FOX 4!







 

 


Popular



Royals sweep Angels in ALDS, advance to AL Championship Series to play Baltimore



Medical staff shocked to discover potato growing inside woman’s private parts



Blood moon returns, and this time it’s bigger



Internet video shows apparent beheading of British aid worker Alan Henning







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Gone Girl rakes in $38 million this weekend



Theater buff loses 121 pounds, nabs the leading role in his life



Fit with FOX 4: Healthy foods



















 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Severe Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3030 Summit, Kansas City, MO 64108  •
		Copyright © 2014, WDAF		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts

































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















