Hannah Graham Case: Police Search Jesse Matthew's Apartment Again - NBC News 
Hannah Graham Case: Police Search Jesse Matthew's Apartment Again - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
Florida Quarterback Suspended Over Assault Accusation 
Gov. Perry Calls On Washington To Take Steps To Minimize Ebola
Hewlett-Packard to Split Into Two Companies: Report
How Cheap Was India's Mars Mission?







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search




















Charlottesville Police Department via WVIR

                            14 days
                            



News
  
Charlottesville police released this picture of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. 
 


Hannah Graham Case: Police Search Jesse Matthew's Apartment Again





































Charlottesville police executed a second search Monday in the apartment of the man they call a “person of interest” in the case of a University of Virginia student who has been missing for more than a week. Jesse Matthew, 32, the man police have repeatedly said they want to question about the disappearance of Hannah Graham, 18, was not at home when investigators arrived. Police left with several bags of evidence, while Matthew’s landlady, Frances Lee-Vandell, stood by and watched. Lee-Vandell told NBC News she often watches Matthew’s dog, Popcorn, and is “just as shocked as anybody” about the investigation.Matthew visited the Charlottesville police station Saturday, but left before answering any questions, Police Chief Timothy Longo said Sunday. Two warrants are out for his arrest after a reckless driving incident shortly after, according to Virginia State Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller. Longo said he believes Matthew was the last person seen with Graham before she vanished. Matthew has been a patient technician at the U.Va. Medical Center since 2012, university spokesman Anthony P. de Bruyn told NBC News.The search for Graham was streamlined Monday in an effort to focus on possible leads. Ninety percent of the possible evidence that more than 1,000 volunteer searchers uncovered over the weekend would likely be irrelevant, but still important to the process, said search coordinator Mark Eggeman. "We have to get to the 10 percent of the things that could potentially be relevant to get to the one thing that could turn this mission on a dime," Eggeman said. Rather than hundreds of community members scouring backyards and looking behind bushes, the coming days instead will see smaller groups of trained search and rescue crews using leads from the investigation to drive their search, Eggeman said. Longo said he's hoping for a "valuable" lead or piece of evidence that will "help us move this case forward."
















IN-DEPTHHannah Graham: What Happened to the Missing Virginia Student?Missing Virginia Student Hannah Graham's Parents Speak OutHannah Graham Case: More Than 1,000 to Search for Missing U.Va. StudentSOCIAL— Katie Wall and Elisha Fieldstadt
First published September 22 2014, 7:43 AM



 

 

 

 











About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

