Hannah Graham Case: More Than 1,000 to Search for Missing U.Va. Student - NBC News 
Hannah Graham Case: More Than 1,000 to Search for Missing U.Va. Student - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
'Counting the Minutes': NBC News Freelancer With Ebola Headed to U.S.
Harvard Students Sent Apology Email for Death Threat
 Hewlett-Packard to Split Into 2 Companies: Report
Coming Up on NBC Nightly News (October 5)







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search




















Charlottesville Police Department via WVIR

                            16 days
                            



News
  
Charlottesville police released this picture of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. 
 


Hannah Graham Case: More Than 1,000 to Search for Missing U.Va. Student





































The first wave of volunteers spread out around Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday to search for a missing University of Virginia student who disappeared a week earlier. More than 1,600 people gathered Friday night at the John Paul Jones Arena for a briefing on the massive search for 18-year-old Hannah Graham, who vanished a week ago after an off-campus party, said Jeffrey Stern, a state coordinator for the Virginia Department of Emergency Management. Crews said the turnout was so large that volunteers would be split into groups with different start times, according to NBC affiliate WVIR. The first shift started at 8 a.m. ET.Graham, a second-year student, went missing in the early morning of Sept. 13 and was last heard from when she sent a text message to friends saying she was lost, Charlottesville police said. Investigators released a description of a "person of interest" who was seen in surveillance video walking behind Graham the night she went missing. The unidentified man — described as having dreadlocks and in his 20s or 30s — was also seen by witnesses putting his arm around Graham and inside of a restaurant, according to police. A search warrant was served for the man's apartment and car on Friday, but police were unable to detain him or question him because they didn't have a sufficient legal basis, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said Friday.IN-DEPTHHannah Graham Search: Student Possibly Got in Car With Person of InterestPolice Seek Person of Interest in Hannah Graham DisappearanceMissing UVA Student Hannah Graham 'Would Not Disappear' Abruptly: FamilySOCIAL— Elisha Fieldstadt
First published September 20 2014, 8:37 AM



 

 

 

 











About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

