Matthew Charged with Abduction with Intent to Defile in Graham Case 
Matthew Charged with Abduction with Intent to Defile in Graham Case

























October 6, 2014



Community Counts
HealthLink
Apps







Search





 




















 



Home 
News  

News

News Headlines
Need to Know
Breaking News Alerts
News Video
Live Stream
Education
Meet the News Team
News Tip
Polls
Politics
State/Regional
Affordable Care Act


Weather  

Weather

Closings & Delays
Interactive Radar
Skyline Network
Severe Weather Alerts
Weather Authority Facebook
CBS19Weather Twitter
Meet the Weather Team
3-Degree Guarantee


Sports  

Sports

Sports Headlines
Friday Night EndZone
UVa Athletics
ACC
High School SportsZone
Meet the Sports Team
Student Athlete of the Week
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em


Features  

Features

Barefoot Excursions
Blue Ridge Outdoors
Dental Minute
Edible Blue Ridge
Inside Charlottesville
Jay James on Faith
Pet Project
Political Tuesday
Real Estate III TV
Stephanie's Heroes
Street Safe Teens
UVa Today
What's Going Around
Wine Wednesdays


HealthLINK 
Skyline Network  

Skyline Network

All Cameras
CHO Airport
Fork Union
Martha Jefferson
Old Trail Village
Westminster


Pump Patrol 
Life  

Life

Entertainment
Lottery
MomsEveryday
MyCapture
Pouring in Virginia
TXTL8R


Community  

Community

Community Calendar
VNB Community Counts
Martha Jefferson HealthWise
TXT L8R


Contests  

Contests

Auto Racing Challenge
Dralion Text 2 Win Contest
Fan of the Day
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em
TXT L8R Sweepstakes
Wildlife Photo Contest
3 Degree Guarantee


Station  

Station

Contact Us
Email Directory
Meet the Team
Creative Services
Advertise with Us
Closed Captioning
Program Guide
CBS Shows
Public File
Video Request Form
Waiver Information
Your Feedback


Connect  

Connect

Android App
iPhone / iPad Apps
E-News
Newsplex Facebook
Newsplex Twitter
Newsplex Text Alerts
Newsplex YouTube
RSS Feeds


Jobs  

Jobs

Newsplex Jobs
VA Job Connections
Job of the Day







 

















Matthew Charged with Abduction with Intent to Defile in Graham Case



Updated: Tue 11:34 PM, Sep 23, 2014















Home
 / Headlines List
 / Article 































More Video...













																						Jesse Matthew Facing Charges of Abducting Hannah Graham
														










																						Press Conferece: Police Charge Matthew in Graham Case (7p)
														














Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr.










Sept. 23, 2014
Police are charging 32-year-old Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. with abduction with intent to defile in connection with Hannah Graham's disappearance.
Police held a press conference on the search for missing University of Virginia 2nd-year student Hannah Elizabeth Graham on Tuesday evening.
Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo addressed the media and the public at the City Transportation Center on Avon Street.
Longo says the investigation is ongoing, and that law enforcement is trying to locate Matthew.
Chief Tim Longo did not discuss Tuesday night what evidence led to the charge.
"Between now and the time that this matter goes to trial we need to be very sensitive about the information that we share," Longo said. It is a change from the early days of the case, when police shared as much as they could to aid in the search for Hannah Graham. 
Legal expert Scott Goodman says the new abduction charge puts police in a new position.
"The police are going to be releasing very little information from this point on," Goodman said. "Now that it's in court, the police have to be very careful not to taint their case, not to taint the possible jury pool."
Police have been expecting forensic lab results back from evidence they took from Matthew's car and home. They would not confirm Tuesday night whether the lab results are back, but Goodman is confident they are.
"Sometime (Tuesday) they got information from the lab that something connected Hannah to Mr. Matthew," Goodman said. "And I'm sure it's very frustrating for the police officers because they had (Matthew) in their office. He was in the police department on Saturday. This does show how important it is to have quick lab work."
Matthew asked for a lawyer on Saturday, then left the police department. Police who were monitoring him then say he drove away recklessly and could not be safely followed.
The felony abduction charge will make it easier to extradite Matthew if he is arrested in another state. Goodman says, any police department that finds him will likely detain him until someone from Charlottesville Police can pick him up and bring him back to Virginia. If he had only been facing a reckless driving charge, as he was before Tuesday, other departments may have let him go on bond. 
Despite the increased focus on locating Matthew, Longo stressed Tuesday night that they have not lost sight of finding Hannah.
"We absolutely are continuing our search for Hannah, even as we speak," Longo said.
Graham was last seen in the area of the Downtown Mall around 1 a.m. on Saturday, Sept. 13.
If Matthew is arrested and convicted of felony abduction with intent to defile, he could face from twenty years to life in prison.
"He's out on the run," Goodman said. "It makes it very dangerous because somebody who is that desperate certainly is not going to be easily taken into custody."











3 Win Medicine Nobel for Discovering Brain's GPS 












The comments sections of Newsplex.com are designed for thoughtful, intelligent conversation and debate. We want to hear from our viewers, but we ask that you follow our rules for commenting. E-mail is required to comment on a story, but it will not be displayed with your comment. For complete rules, CLICK HERE. The Newsplex reserves the right to not post or to remove any comment.



Please enable JavaScript to view the powered by Disqus.
powered by Disqus



















































		Most Read Stories			



Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham
Historic Estate In Virginia To Be Sold At Auction
Searchers Increase Personnel to Search for Missing Teen
Local Entrepreneur Turns Passion into Profit
Teachers Feeling Stress
Police Using New Tactic to Issue Texting While Driving Tickets
Dozens of Girls Donate Their Ponytails wit Wigs for Warriors
Supreme Court Rejects Appeals in Gay Marriage Cases













Tweets from @CBS19/newsplex-accounts




Today's Events
Today's community events.
Monday October 6



Fall Revival
Sleepout for the Homeless
Colonnade Club Cornerstone Celebration
UVA Hosted: Baby Basics Moms Club

Click Here to Submit and View Events









































The Charlottesville Newsplex
999 2nd Street S.E.
Charlottesville, VA 22902
434.242.1919 – Main
434.220.7522 - Newsroom

 - Copyright © 2002-2014 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability   276848101 - newsplex.com/a?a=276848101 					





Website Policy
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy/YOUR CALIFORNIA PRIVACY RIGHTS
Advertising
EEO Statement
Public Inspection File






×
Online Public Information File


Click Here to access the online Public Inspection File
Viewers with disabilities can get assistance accessing this station's FCC Public Inspection File by contacting the station with the information listed below. Questions or concerns relating to the accessibility of the FCC's online public file system should be directed to the FCC at 888-225-5322, 888-835-5322 (TTY), or fccinfo@fcc.gov.

Public File Liaison:
Emily Hall - 434-242-1919 Ext. 137

Station Contact Info:
The Charlottesville Newsplex999 2nd Street S.E.Charlottesville, VA 22902434.242.1919 – Main434.220.7522 - Newsroom


Close




















