Hannah Elizabeth Graham: Candlelight vigil for missing UVa. student | WTVR.com  
Hannah Elizabeth Graham: Candlelight vigil for missing UVa. student | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







‘You make things good Hannah Graham, where are you?’ friend says at vigil

Posted 1:09 am, September 19, 2014, by Alix Bryan and Melissa Hipolit, Updated at 11:11am, September 19, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. – Hundreds gathered at McIntire Amphitheater Thursday night, classmates joining together to face the unthinkable, one of their fellow university students missing.
A “Bring Hannah Home” candlelight vigil was held for second year University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham, of Alexandria, who has not been seen by friends since late Friday night, Sept. 12.


#UVA is here in force showing support for #hannahgraham. @CBS6 #BringHannahHome pic.twitter.com/818fglpRUl
— Melissa J. Hipolit (@MelissaCBS6) September 19, 2014

The 18-year-old girl has been spotted on surveillance video in several places, with a path that seems to be eastbound, covering over a mile and a half in the time that she left friends and then sent a last text.
Just 90 minutes unaccounted for, but enshrouded in mystery.
Videos help, but raise more questions
The last video to be released shows a white male walk into the cameras view, look over his shoulder, then step into a doorway and Graham walks past him. He then begins to follow her.
This man reached out to police, saying he contacted the tipline before coming into the station, and told police that he was walking with her to make sure she was okay. He said Hannah seemed physically distressed and he “wanted to make sure she got safely wherever she was going,” according to police.
The man told police that he saw a black man approach Hannah, and that man put his arm around her. The unidentified man told police she didn’t react, and seemed to know him. Once those two started speaking, he said it appeared the black male was “was either known to Ms. Graham or was trying to help her.”
So he went on his way, he told police. He said the two were standing there talking when he left.
Other people are seen in the video and the videos have raised questions.

“We are not ignorant people, we don’t dismiss anything out right,” said Captain Gary Pleasants. “I’ve reported what’s been told to us, we are looking into every aspect of every person we deal with.”
Police now say they know who some of the people are in the video, but it’s unclear if they’ve talked to them yet.
“I’m not going to get into what anyone may have told us yet,” Pleasants said.
Police are asking anyone who was out that night and may have seem something to contact the tipline.
Meanwhile this university town waits for answers about what exactly happened to Hannah Graham.
“People are just unsure, they want closure,” said Caitlin Adkins, a UVa. student who attended Hannah’s vigil. “You just hope and pray that she comes back.”
Suspect description
About fifteen hours after the man seen walking behind Hannah in the video came forward, police released a suspect description.
Police described the man as a black male in his late 20s to early 30s, about 5 feet 10 inches to 5 feet 11 inches tall and weighing between 250-285 pounds. The man was wearing black jeans and a white t-shirt and was described as having a closely shaved head as well as a goatee and a slight “beer belly.”
Reward offered
A $50,000 reward is now being offered in hopes of soliciting tips that could lead police to Graham.
The City of Charlottesville and the University of Virginia are each offering $10,000. In addition, some local residents and businesses have contributed $30,000 to the reward.
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.
Searches will continue throughout the weekend, with volunteer help requested.
All surveillance videos can be seen here.
All reports filed on this case can be found here.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.

 



Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Ellen on CBS 6 !
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Police search for ‘person of interest’ in UVa. student Hannah Graham disappearance


News

All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham beseech students to be safe this weekend


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police search Charlottesville apartment for clues into disappearance of UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham



 


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Woman pulls Jesse Matthew defense fund site over threats






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















