Hannah Graham’s parents talk about missing UVa. student | WTVR.com  
Hannah Graham’s parents talk about missing UVa. student | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.

Posted 4:36 pm, September 21, 2014, by Nick Dutton, Updated at 07:28am, September 22, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Hannah Graham’s parents addressed the public for the first time Sunday when they appeared at a news conference to ask for information about their missing daughter. John Graham spoke lovingly of his 18-year-old daughter. His wife Sue stood by his side.
John Graham asked anyone who had information into the whereabouts of Hannah Graham daughter, a second-year University of Virginia student, to come forward.
“This is every parent’s worst nightmare,” John Graham said. “We need to find out what happened to Hannah to make sure it doesn’t happen to anyone else.”
The Grahams thanked the more than 1,200 volunteers who spent the weekend searching for any clue that could help solve the mystery of what happened to Hannah.
“We have been utterly overwhelmed this week by the generosity of spirit of everybody we have met – and many more besides whom we’ve been unable to meet,” he said. “We understand that over a thousand volunteers have been out combing Charlottesville, looking for our girl, yesterday and today.”
The couple also spent part of Sunday searching for their daughter.
John and Sue Graham
Graham’s parents shared some favorite memories of their daughter – describing her as someone who loved helping people.
“Last Spring Break, instead of hanging around on the beach, she spent a week in Tuscaloosa rebuilding houses,” her father said.
John Graham then pulled out a small, stuffed animal. Hannah’s favorite stuffed animal, BB, was given to the girl when she was less than a week old. But the pair became separated when he dropped his daughter off at UVa. for the start of the semester.
“When I returned home, Hannah had left this little guy behind,” he said. “She was her guardian angel until she returned to school last month.”
Hannah had once lost BB as a child, but the animal was safely returned to her.
John Graham speaks as his wife, Sue, clutches their daughter’s favorite white rabbit and good luck charm.
“Sue and I are utterly overwhelmed by this support for Hannah. We thank you from the bottom of our heart,” Graham said. “All we want to do now is bring Hannah home safely.”


Hannah's father shows reporters her favorite stuffed animal that she had as a toddler.  Recently, returning to UVA leaving it behind.  @cbs6
— Sandra Jones (@sjonesontv) September 21, 2014

A $50,000 reward is now being offered in hopes of soliciting tips that could lead police to Graham.
The City of Charlottesville and the University of Virginia are each offering $10,000. In addition, some local residents and businesses have contributed $30,000 to the reward.
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.




All surveillance videos can be seen here.
All reports filed on this case can be found here.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham, University of Virginia 











 






Heroes Among Us
Who is the hero in your life? Click here to nominate them so Greg McQuade and CBS 6 News can share their story.







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.



 


News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know, what we don’t know


News

Bond hearing canceled for Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’



 


News

Morgan Harrington’s mom says ‘possibility of good outcome’ exists for Hannah Graham


News

Police: Witness saw man put arm around missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham beseech students to be safe this weekend






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


 















