As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’ | WTVR.com  
As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’ | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’

Posted 11:23 pm, October 5, 2014, by Nick Dutton and Jon Burkett, Updated at 12:18am, October 6, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 





CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. – As the search for a missing University of Virginia student drags into a third week, Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo encouraged crews to continue looking for Hannah Graham.
Since Graham vanished from the Downtown Mall last month, police have charged Jesse Matthew Jr. with her abduction.
One member of the search team likened the hunt to searching for the bread crumbs that will lead them to Hannah in this puzzling case. For example, any clue could help find her. From her cell phone to shoes, investigators said those things would point crews in the right direction.
There were about 60 Virginia State Troopers on the ground searching alongside other specialized teams out for another daylong search for the missing student on Sunday.

Chief Longo said the search will not end until they find Graham.
“If you have a well on your property, search it. If you have an abandoned structure or abandoned car on your property, search it,” Longo said. “We have made the commitment to her parents and we will honor the commitment to find Hannah.”
The department has received 3,300 tips and has covered 700 square miles
“Every square inch of Albemarle County will be searched this weekend,” Longo promised.
Through dense terrain and open fields, officers from all over the state were on foot and on ATVs.

Some had four-legged partners, like K-9 Handler Sharon Johnson. She said the last three weeks have been trying, but that those searching re committed to the cause.
“He’s cross trained, Johnson explained. “These dogs are human scent specific. In urban settings it’s difficult but out in the wilderness or rural areas they do better.”
There is a lot of ground to cover and some searching are frustrated.

However, Chief Longo said they have quickly refocused as  Graham’s mother’s message resonates with every one of them.
Graham’s parents  released an emotional video statement on Saturday pleading for help bringing their missing daughter home.
“Somebody listening me today either knows where Hannah is or knows someone who has that information,” Sue Graham said fighting back tears. “We appeal to you to come forward and tell us where Hannah can be found.”



Additionally, Graham praised everyone involved in the search for their tireless work.
“We would like to again express our enormous gratitude to all those who have been involved in the search for Hannah,” Sue Graham said. “The police, the professional search teams, the people staffing the telephone tip line, UVa. students, our friends, neighbors and work colleagues — as well as the citizens of Charlottesville and the surrounding area.”
While police have a suspect in custody in connection to Hannah’s disappearance, they have not been able to locate Hannah.
Graham was last seen in Charlottesville’s Downtown Mall on Sept. 13. Investigators believe suspect Jesse Matthew, 32, was the last person with her. He is charged with abduction with the intent to defile.
Anyone with information about Graham’s whereabouts is asked to call a special tip line at 434-295-3851. All surveillance videos can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.

 




Filed in: News Topics: Charlottesville, Hannah Elizabeth Graham 








			2 comments		




 

Blackbeered

Look, we know the chief is grandstanding, looking for a better job.
But, as the RTD reports … who’s looking for Tyrell Alexander, who disappeared the same day?




							October 6, 2014 at 9:23 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

G W

same thing happens with amber alerts for white and black children. Just look at the rate of comments when those go out.




							October 6, 2014 at 11:15 am						

Reply
Report comment








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Police explain next steps in search for UVa. student Hannah Graham, missing 12 days


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


News

Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’



 


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Police: Man with dreads went into bar with missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman



 


News

Hannah Graham searchers have an important message for Virginia hunters and hikers


News

WATCH LIVE: Press conference on missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham: Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ speeds away from police






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















