Hannah Graham: What Happened to the Missing Virginia Student? - NBC News 
Hannah Graham: What Happened to the Missing Virginia Student? - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
Florida Quarterback Suspended Over Assault Accusation 
Gov. Perry Calls On Washington To Take Steps To Minimize Ebola
Hewlett-Packard to Split Into Two Companies: Report
How Cheap Was India's Mars Mission?







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search




















Andrew Shurtleff / The Daily Progress via AP

                            14 days
                            



News
  
Volunteer Linda Cassell, left, walks with search team leader Brian Pace, as they search along the railroad tracks behind the Charlottesville Downtown Mall during a massive search effort by the community for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, Saturday, Sept. 20, 2014, in Charlottesville, Va. 
 


Hannah Graham: What Happened to the Missing Virginia Student?



















By Tim Stelloh

One of the last times Hannah Graham was seen, it was early Saturday, Sept. 13, and a camera outside a gas station in Charlottesville, Virginia, briefly filmed her walking, then running. A few minutes before, Graham, a second-year student at the University of Virginia, was seen talking to a man outside McGrady’s Pub, a bar not far from campus; shortly after 1 a.m., she sent a text message to a friend: she was lost. Then, the eighteen-year-old vanished.In the days after, Graham's disappearance has rattled the small Virginia community, leaving residents, friends and family to wonder — What happened to Hannah? Here’s what we know so far.
















Who is Hannah Graham?Graham went to high school in Northern Virginia, at West Potomac. Relatives and people who knew Graham described her as a resilient and responsible young woman — a thoughtful student who liked to ski, loved Starburst candy and played the alto saxophone. Graham “was very diligent with everything she did, and always did everything exactly by the book,” as Stephen Rice, a band director at West Potomac, put it in an interview with NBC Washington. “Hannah is not the kind of kid that would just go on a road trip and disappear.”Graham is 5-foot-11; she has blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles, and on Saturday night, she was wearing black pants and a crop top. Before disappearing, she had attended an off-campus party.Who is the person of interest?At a news conference on Sunday, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said that he believed Jesse Matthew, 32, was the last person Graham “was seen with before she vanished off the face of the earth.” Matthew is believed to appear in surveillance video walking with Graham; police searched his car and apartment and are awaiting forensic results. Matthew has not been charged in Graham’s disappearance, and on Saturday, he arrived at Charlottesville police headquarters, asked for a lawyer, and then left without speaking to police. A warrant was later issued for his arrest on charges of reckless driving.At the news conference, Longo pleaded for Matthew’s cooperation. “I hope and pray that we might have an opportunity to talk to Jesse Matthew again,” Longo said. “We want to talk to him about his interaction with a sweet young girl that we can’t find.”
















How has the community responded?Graham is one of five girls to go missing in the Charlottesville area in the last five years, and for some, her disappearance has been a "debilitating" process, as Gil Harrington, whose daughter, Morgan, was among them, put it. Morgan was later found dead. Amanda St.Clair created a Facebook page this week for Graham. "There's a problem here," St.Clair told NBC News. "They just disappeared into thin air."On Thursday, an estimated 2,000 people gathered at a candlelight vigil at the university. Some brought mementos — a pair of skis, an alto saxophone — others wished her safe return.University president Teresa A. Sullivan released a statement Sunday saying the school is helping authorities in the search for Graham. "We are cooperating fully with law enforcement authorities as they continue their investigation. If you have any information that might be helpful, no matter how inconsequential it might seem to you, please call the dedicated tip line at 434-295-3851."What’s next?"This investigation has been aggressive and will continue to be aggressive," police chief Tim Longo said at a press conference Wednesday, and over the weekend, more than 1,000 people turned out to search for Graham; so many volunteers arrived at John Paul Jones Arena on Friday that they needed to be arranged in groups and assigned different start times. Though it covered 85 percent of the city, Graham was not found. Still, the search coordinator, Mark Eggeman, said Sunday that the effort “generated more leads,” and that in the days ahead it would become more narrowly focused.At a Sunday news conference, Graham’s father, John Graham, thanked the volunteers for their “marvelous support,” but he pleaded for more help. “Who saw Hannah?” he said. “Somebody knows what happened to Hannah.”
First published September 22 2014, 1:44 AM



 

 

 

 



Tim Stelloh


 


                                            Tim Stelloh is a freelance writer based in New York. In addition to NBC News, his work has appeared in the New York Times, the Nation, the New Republic and elsewhere.
                                        
... Expand Bio












About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

