Chief: Aggressive search continues for Hannah Graham across hundreds of square miles of countryside | WJLA.com 
Chief: Aggressive search continues for Hannah Graham across hundreds of square miles of countryside | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Chief: Aggressive search continues for Hannah Graham across hundreds of square miles of countryside

By The Associated Press, Diane Cho, Jay Korff, ABC 7 News

			October 5, 2014 - 02:26 pm Updated: October 6, 2014 - 05:24 am
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) - Charlottesville's police chief said Sunday that an anguished statement from the parents of a missing University of Virginia student has given investigators the resolve to carry out a difficult search of hundreds of square miles of countryside.
Continue reading


More on this story


Hannah Graham search

Hannah Graham's parents: 'Somebody knows where Hannah is'






Police on ATV's search for any sign of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham in Keswick, Va. (AP Photo/Steve Helber)



Police Chief Timothy Longo said that law enforcement is aggressively searching areas surrounding Charlottesville - many of which are mountainous, hilly or thick with brush - for Hannah Graham, who disappeared on Sept. 13.
A team of about 100 law enforcement officers and other trained searchers were combing through the countryside Saturday and Sunday looking for any sign of the college sophomore. Teams have been searching every day since Graham was reported missing.
On Saturday, her parents made an emotional plea for whoever is responsible for the 18-year-old's disappearance to help find their daughter. In the videotaped statement, Sue Graham said: "Please, please, please help end this nightmare for all of us." The Grahams also thanked law enforcement for their efforts.
Longo said the statement shows the "pain, the grief and the anguish" that the Grahams are going through. He read their words aloud to the search team on Saturday.
"They went out here yesterday with a clearer understanding of the importance of finding Hannah Graham," he said.
Longo said that law enforcement has received more than 3,300 tips for their search. He asked area property owners to check their land.
"If you have a well on your property, search that well. If you have an abandoned structure, search that structure," he said.
Longo also said all-terrain vehicles, aircraft and mounted officers are searching rural Albemarle County, parts of which are hilly or mountainous.
"Lots of these areas are very difficult to get to," he said.
Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., a 32-year-old Charlottesville man, has been charged with "abduction with intent to defile" in the disappearance of Graham. Police say forensic evidence also connects the 32-year-old Charlottesville man to the 2009 slaying of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student.
Longo declined to answer questions on the case against Matthew. He also said he couldn't discuss the investigation into Harrington's death.
Sharon Jones, a canine handler and president of the nonprofit search organization Dogs East, has been assisting the search with a black German Shepherd named Gyro. Gyro is trained to detect the scent of any living human or body.
Asked about what challenges the searchers face, she noted the duration of the search and difficult brush that the dogs are trained to break through: "The dogs and the handlers are getting, just, tired."
But she added, "As long as we're needed, we'll be here."


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Charlottesville, 
Virginia, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Missing Student, 
University Of Virginia








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Man with handgun shot, killed as officers serve warrant in Southeast D.C.



Temitope Asaya, Prince George's County officer, suspended for allegedly stealing iPad at Annapolis Mall Apple Store



Hannah Graham's parents issue plea for information: 'Somebody knows where Hannah is'












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Ebola ruled out for 2 patients in isolation at D.C.-area hospitals; 1 has malaria









Thomas Eric Duncan, lone Ebola patient diagnosed in U.S., in critical condition
















How to watch the Washington Nationals playoff games on TV









What is Ebola? How does it spread? Who is at risk?









Enterovirus: How parents can tell if your child is sick









Legal expert: Hannah Graham feared dead, Jesse Matthew's silence suggests involvement









Well-known D.C. bartender, Joe Madden, thought to have gone missing turns up in New Orleans





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

