Hannah Graham abduction suspect Jesse Matthew twice accused of college sex assaults | WJLA.com 
Hannah Graham abduction suspect Jesse Matthew twice accused of college sex assaults | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Hannah Graham abduction suspect Jesse Matthew twice accused of college sex assaults

By ABC 7 News, Associated Press, Tom Roussey

			October 1, 2014 - 11:07 pm Updated: October 2, 2014 - 12:05 am
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



NEWPORT NEWS, Va. (WJLA/AP/ABC News) - The man charged with abducting University of Virginia student Hannah Graham was accused in a police file of an on-campus sexual assault at a different university in 2003.
Continue reading





Abduction and sex assault suspect Jesse Matthew. (AP photo)



More on this story


Drone technology used in Graham search

Complete coverage: Search for Graham



Christopher Newport University said in a statement late Wednesday that Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. was named in a campus police file stemming from the sexual assault on Sept. 7, 2003 on the Newport News campus.
Matthew was a student there from January 2003 until Oct. 15, 2003. He was also a member of CNU's football team from Aug. 14 until he quit it on Sept. 12, 2003; he was a 250-pound defensive lineman, according to the team's media guide.
Matthew left the school after the police file was opened, but was never charged with a crime.
"Students don't usually leave in the second month of the semester or leave the football team within a month," said the CNU statement, e-mailed to ABC7 News by CNU spokeswoman Lori Jacobs. "However, federal student record privacy laws (FERPA) limit the information we can provide. The University is fully cooperating with law-enforcement agencies."
He had transferred to CNU after three years at Liberty University in Lynchburg, where he also was on the football team.
While Matthew was at Liberty, he was accused of raping a student on campus there. That charge was dropped when the female declined to move forward with prosecution, Lynchburg Commonwealth's Attorney Michael Doucette said last week.
At the time he attended both schools, Matthew didn't have facial hair or dreadlocks that recent pictures of him show.
Matthew is currently jailed, charged with abducting the missing 18-year-old Graham with intent to defile, or sexually molest, her. She disappeared Sept. 13 and has not been found.
Matthew was scheduled to appear Thursday in court in Charlottesville for a bond hearing on the abduction charge, but his attorney has asked for a postponement. Attorney Jim Camblos said Wednesday that Matthew will now appear in court on Dec. 4. A separate hearing in county court on a reckless driving charge for Matthew was still scheduled for Thursday.
Wednesday night's news of the CNU sexual assault investigation came as at least two different sheriff's offices in Virginia, Campbell County and Montgomery County, reported that they were looking into open murder cases to see if Matthew was connected.
Virginia State Police said they have already found "a new forensic link" between the 2009 murder of Morgan Harrington and the 32-year-old Matthew.
Authorities investigating Harrington's death previously said they found a DNA link in 2010 between her murder and the 2005 sexual assault of a woman in Fairfax. The woman survived the attack.


Read More:
Virginia, 
Jesse Matthew, 
Hannah Graham, 
Abduction, 
Missing Student, 
Sex Assaults, 
Sex Assault, 
Christopher Newport University, 
Liberty University, 
Newport News, 
Lynchburg, 
Charlottesville, 
Kidnapping, 
Molest, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Virginia Crime








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Psychiatrist says cabbie on trial for shooting Alexandria cop is one of the 'sickest' people he's ever seen



6-year-old boy fights for his life after being struck by FedEx van in Alexandria



Alleged White House intruder pleads not guilty












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



What is Ebola? How does it spread? Who is at risk?









Hannah Graham abduction suspect Jesse Matthew twice accused of college sex assaults
















Drone used in Hannah Graham search; cops check for cold case ties









Police: Man killed his boss' wife at Potomac home, then self in car over workplace theft accusation









Man slain trying to break up fight outside Bowie swim club; gunman sought by police









Morgan Harrington's mom makes plea to Jesse Matthew: Please tell where Hannah Graham is









New laws take effect in D.C., Maryland on Oct. 1





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

