Charlottesville bar owner: Graham seemed incapacitated when she walked away with Matthew | WJLA.com 
Charlottesville bar owner: Graham seemed incapacitated when she walked away with Matthew | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Charlottesville bar owner: Graham seemed incapacitated when she walked away with Matthew



			September 25, 2014 - 08:28 pm 
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP/WJLA) - The owner of a bar where a missing University of Virginia student was last seen with a man charged in her abduction says she could barely walk that night without the man's support.
Continue reading


More on this story


Arrest site for Matthew was on remote Texas peninsula

Police still have 'no idea' where Graham is

Commonwealth's Attorney: Matthew was suspect in 2002 alleged rape



 
Tempo Restaurant owner Brice Cunningham said in an interview on Thursday that Hannah Graham appeared to be incapacitated as she walked away with Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr. nearly two weeks ago.
Matthew, a 32-year-old operating room technician at the university's hospital, had been drinking at the bar earlier that night before he encountered the 18-year-old sophomore outside on Charlottesville's pedestrian Downtown Mall, Cunningham said.
Matthew then briefly re-entered the bar, ordered what credit card records suggest were two beers, and rejoined the teenager outside. The bar's door monitor told police they walked off with Matthew's arm around her for support, he said.
Matthew was charged with "abduction with intent to defile" the sophomore after he fled police questioning on Saturday. He made it as far as the Texas beach town of Gilchrist, 1,260 miles from home and about a seven-hour drive from the border.
Authorities had been concerned he would try to cross into Mexico, according to a person familiar with the search who spoke with the AP on condition of anonymity, for lack of authorization to publicly discuss the investigation.
"We seem to be the end of the road," said Galveston County Sheriff Henry Trochesset. "For us, it's not strange that someone like that would be arrested here."
The 6-foot-2, 270-pound former college football player waived extradition as Virginia authorities arrived to take him back. He was caught the day before when a deputy responding to a suspicious person report found his tent and car.
Matthew refused to identify himself, but the plates gave him away.
"I'm glad this individual is off the streets. If he has done anything wrong to her, or anyone else ... Godspeed to her family," the sheriff said.
Graham went missing Sept. 13, after a night of partying in the college town, and search efforts initially focused on Charlottesville. Investigators have since received more than 1,500 tips and expanded the search to surrounding forests, farms and vineyards. Longo asked land owners and real estate agents to search their properties and vacant houses.
"We still have no idea whatsoever where she is, despite our best efforts," Longo said. "We have an obligation to bring her home, one way or the other. That's what we promised to do."
Police said they had probable cause to support the charge against Matthew after twice searching his apartment and gathering evidence they have not described. A crime lab is testing clothing recovered through search warrants, but police haven't said whose clothing that was.
"Defile," in a legal context, means "sexually molest."
"It's a crime that's much easier to charge than it is to prove," said Steve Benjamin, past president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. "The great unknown here is what was found in the vehicle and the apartment, whether there was any item of hers found that becomes important circumstantial evidence."
Surveillance videos captured some of what Graham did the night she vanished. Authorities say she met friends at a restaurant for dinner Sept. 12 before stopping by two parties at off-campus housing units. She left the second party alone and eventually texted a friend saying she was lost, authorities said.
She can be seen walking unsteadily and even running at times, past a pub and a service station and then onto seven-block pedestrian strip that includes the Tempo Restaurant. Longo said Thursday that police have no reason to believe she and Matthew knew each other before their encounter.
Cunningham said the teenager never tried to come inside and that no one saw Matthew take any alcoholic beverages out to her. "She was not served" inside the restaurant, he said.
Longo declined to challenge that version on Thursday, but said "I will tell you we have at least one witness who will put her in that restaurant."
Matthew joined the staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center on Aug. 12, 2012, the university said.
Dave Hansen, who met him a decade ago while serving as an assistant pastor at a church Matthew attended, recently saw him again at the hospital. He was surprised at the allegations.
"I always thought he was a gentle giant, just a nice guy," Hansen said. "He seemed genuine with his faith and spirituality. ... I don't see him doing this at all, but that's usually the case, I guess."
Matthew attended Liberty University from 2000 to 2002, and played as a defensive lineman on the football team, according to the Lynchburg school founded by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell. The Commonwealth's Attorney for Lynchburg told ABC7 News that Matthew was a suspect in a 2002 investigation of an alleged rape on the Liberty campus, but no charges were filed because the woman who reported it didn't pursue the case.
More recently, he volunteered to help coach football at The Covenant School, a private Christian grade school in Charlottesville, where officials said he had passed background and reference checks.
Matthew has a criminal record, but full details aren't public. Court records show a 2010 trespassing conviction, and he was charged but not prosecuted with assault and attempted grand larceny in a 2009 case. He had a state taxi permit from 2007 to 2010, and picked up several traffic infractions, records show.


Read More:
Virginia, 
Hannah Graham, 
Jesse Matthew, 
Missing Student, 
University Of Virginia, 
Abduction, 
Kidnapping, 
Disappearance








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Arrest site for Heather Graham abduction suspect was at road's end on remote Texas peninsula



Police still have 'no idea' where missing U.Va. student is, despite kidnap arrest



Officer found justified in Purcellville teen's May shooting death












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Police search apartment, seize car, but find no sign of missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham









Manhunt continues for Eric Frein, survivalist suspect in ambush, murder of Pennsylvania trooper
















Redskins' DeSean Jackson set for return to Philadelphia









Two intruders arrested in less than 24 hours at White House; Secret Service under scrutiny









As search continues, father believes Hoggle kids are still alive









Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

