UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham | WTKR.com  
UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

72°







72°


Low 49°
High 74°





Tue


					59°  80°
					


Wed


					63°  79°
					


Thu


					62°  75°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham

Posted 1:18 pm, September 19, 2014, by Matt Knight, Updated at 07:47pm, September 19, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Virginia (CNN) – Investigators have pieced together the movements of a missing University of Virginia student the night she went missing, with the police chief saying Friday they believe she got into a car with a man.
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo stopped short of calling the man a suspect in the disappearance of Hannah Graham, saying he was still considered “a person of interest.”
“Let me just say this, we are interested in him,” Longo told reporters during a news conference.
Graham, 18, was last seen early Saturday morning in an area of Charlottesville known as the downtown mall.
Using surveillance video and witness statements, authorities tracked Graham along the mall.
At one point, she was seen with a man going into a bar, where he ordered a drink, Longo said. They were then seen leaving the bar together.
Investigators also know the man drove away from the area in a burnt orange 1998 Chrysler coupe that was parked near the bar, Longo said.
“My point is this, people saw Hannah and people saw him, and people saw them together,” he told reporters during a news conference.
“…If you remember seeing that vehicle and you remember seeing somebody get back in it, and you remember seeing somebody drive way, then we need to hear from you.”
The details were released just hours after authorities searched an apartment and a car belonging to the man.
“Is he in custody? No,” Longo said. “…Was there probable cause to arrest him? No.”

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (10 images)





Inline



Inline



Inline

 


Longo declined to say what investigators seized during the searches.
Investigators are offering a $50,000 reward for “information leading to the cause” of her disappearance, police said.
Graham, a sophomore, is described as a straight-A student and an accomplished athlete from northern Virginia. She’s about 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles, the university said in a release asking for tips about the teen’s disappearance.
Graham left a dinner with a group of friends around 11 p.m. last Friday. Around 1:20 a.m. Saturday, she sent a text to friends saying she was lost, CNN affiliate WTVR reported.
Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, Longo has said, and may have been vulnerable or unable to defend herself.
Her parents attended a candlelight vigil Thursday night organized by students, which the couple described as “extremely moving.”
“We were comforted by the evident high esteem in which our cherished daughter is held by her many friends at the University of Virginia and beyond,” John and Sue Graham said in a statement. “We continue to be optimistic that Hannah will soon be returned safely to us.”
The police chief said he has not given up hope Graham will be found. “I will always be hopeful until we find Hannah,” he said.
Graham’s parents haven’t given up hope either, he said. “They are hurt. They are concerned. They are frustrated,” he said. “But not for one second have I discerned that they have ever lost hope they will find their daughter.”
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.


Mug shots from Hampton Roads arrests


Suffolk’s Most Wanted: August 2014


Taking Action Against Crime


Photos: U.S. Marshals on the hunt for fugitives who may be hiding in Hampton Roads



Filed in: News 











 






Team 3 Professionals
Visit them today!







 

 


Popular



Couple together 34 years will receive first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach after SCOTUS rejects appeals



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Multi-million dollar lawsuit accuses Virginia Wesleyan lacrosse player of rape



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Surf for the Cure in Virginia Beach



Time-lapse video: Crew of the USS Bataan washes down the flight deck















News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance



 


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond



 


News

Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,333 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















