Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance | WTKR.com  
Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

72°







72°


Low 49°
High 74°





Tue


					59°  80°
					


Wed


					63°  79°
					


Thu


					62°  75°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance

Posted 3:40 pm, September 22, 2014, by Holly Henry, Updated at 05:00pm, September 22, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 




JUST IN: Charlottesville Police release photo of Person of Interest in #HannahGraham case. pic.twitter.com/Pq95EPUBja
— CBS 6 WTVR Richmond (@CBS6) September 22, 2014

CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. – Police have issued a wanted poster and released the photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr.
Matthew, 32, is wanted for misdemeanor reckless driving, however, Charlottesville Police have called him a Person of Interest in the disappearance of 18-year-old University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, according to a report from WTVR.
“I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the earth,” Charlottesville Police Tim Longo said during a Sunday news conference. “It’s been a week and we can’t find her. It’s been a week and someone has got to know something.”
Longo said Matthew walked into the police station Saturday and asked for a lawyer. After Matthew spoke with a lawyer, Longo said he left the station, got into a vehicle with another person and drove off, the report says.
“State and federal authorities who were overtly monitoring his movement saw him get into a car and leave a location to Albemarle County at a high rate of speed, driving in a matter that was reckless and placed others in danger,” Chief Longo said.
Longo said he would not speculate on why Matthew sped off, but said investigators are “aggressively pursuing his location.”
“Matthew has associates/contacts in Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Washington D.C., ” the wanted poster indicated. “If you have information as to his whereabouts please call the Charlottesville Police Department or the 24-hour tip line at 434-295-3851.”
Related:
Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


Filed in: News 








			5 comments		




 

The People

What is a 32yr old doing around a 18yr old girl..fishy story !




							September 22, 2014 at 6:07 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Michael Dilday

That dude really looks like the sketch of the Morgan Harrington case from 2009.  They never found her killer.  Check this out.  http://a.abcnews.com/images/US/ht_Morgan_Harrington_suspect_nt_120604_wmain.jpg




							September 22, 2014 at 10:23 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

dave

can u say serial killer. aren’t 4/5 other girls also missing in last five years in that area. just more black-on-white crime and the numbers don’t lie. go take a look the yearly FBI statistics. really makes me sick. straight to the gallows if proven guilty.




							September 22, 2014 at 11:50 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Stephy

two out of the five missing girls are young black women. so no its not black on white crime. its a a string of YOUNG women being abducted, based mostly on how YOUNG they are.




							September 29, 2014 at 3:32 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

Melissa

Why don’t they trace her cell phone? Even if it is off there should be some way to trace it. Maybe if they trace it might lead them to her. Even if its by GPS FBI can do anything thing.




							September 28, 2014 at 12:21 am						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






Southern Bank
News Channel 3’s Proud Community Partner!







 

 


Popular



Couple together 34 years will receive first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach after SCOTUS rejects appeals



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Multi-million dollar lawsuit accuses Virginia Wesleyan lacrosse player of rape



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Surf for the Cure in Virginia Beach



Time-lapse video: Crew of the USS Bataan washes down the flight deck















News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham



 


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond


News

Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail



 


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts







































Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,333 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















