Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia  | WTKR.com  
Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia  | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

72°







72°


Low 49°
High 74°





Tue


					59°  80°
					


Wed


					63°  79°
					


Thu


					62°  75°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia

Posted 7:53 pm, September 26, 2014, by Doris Taylor, Updated at 02:05pm, September 27, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



(CNN) – Jesse Matthew, a suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, is being held in isolation in a Virginia jail cell, authorities said Saturday.
Authorities took Matthew to Charlottesville, Virginia, on Friday after he agreed not to fight extradition from Texas, where he had been taken into custody after police obtained a warrant for his arrest on Tuesday. Investigators think he was the last person with Graham.
He is charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, according to Charlottesville police.
He was offered two phone calls, but refused to make them, according to the Albemarle Charlottesville Regional Jail. He’s sleeping on a mattress on the floor in a cell so spare that it doesn’t even have bathroom facilities, according to a jail official.
Graham was last seen September 13 in an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall. Police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of the 18-year-old, a second-year student the university.
Matthew willingly went to a Virginia police station over the weekend, when there was no warrant for his arrest, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said. He asked for a lawyer. They spoke and then left, police said.
Matthew’s father said his son is not the type to hurt anyone.

“For a big man, he’s as gentle as they come,” Jesse Matthew Sr. told CNN affiliate WTVR. “The only thing I could see, him, maybe trying to give the girl a ride or help her out.”
“To kill or hurt somebody, that’s not my son.”
Found camping on the beach
Authorities found Matthew on a Galveston County beach after deputies got a call about a suspicious person camping there. A license plate check revealed he was wanted, CNN affiliate KPRC reported.
Matthew did not resist arrest, police said.
Mike Rodenberg, a vacationer who was fishing near the campsite when Matthew was arrested, said Matthew asked about why he was throwing some of his catch back.
“He seemed real nice. He was real soft-spoken,” Rodenberg said. “(He) said he was down here from New Jersey and was looking for a job. I told him if I caught another red fish he could have it.”
Matthew told him that his name was George, Rodenberg said. Nothing really seemed out of the ordinary until the police showed up.
Questioned in another case
In addition to Graham’s disappearance, Matthew also has been questioned in connection with an alleged sexual assault nearly 12 years ago.
According to a statement from Lynchburg police, a woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University on October 17, 2002. Matthew was a student there for three years and played on the football team.
However, no charges were filed because the woman didn’t want to go forward with the case, and investigators determined there wasn’t enough evidence to arrest Matthew back then, said Michael Doucette, the commonwealth’s attorney for Lynchburg, Virginia.
Matthew told authorities that the woman consented, Doucette said, adding that there were no witnesses.


Filed in: News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 








 






The NewsChannel 3 App Center
Get the latest news and Live VIPIR Radar on your phone!







 

 


Popular



Couple together 34 years will receive first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach after SCOTUS rejects appeals



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Multi-million dollar lawsuit accuses Virginia Wesleyan lacrosse player of rape



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Surf for the Cure in Virginia Beach



Time-lapse video: Crew of the USS Bataan washes down the flight deck















News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case ordered held without bond


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance



 


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

Hannah Graham suspect was questioned in 2002 rape accusation, will be extradited today


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham


News

Alexis Murphy’s aunt says focus is on Hannah Graham, not guys in jail


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

Court records: Jesse Matthew allegedly punched driver twice, then drove man to hospital






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts





























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,333 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















