Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall | WTKR.com  
Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall | WTKR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: News at Noon 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTKR.com

 Menu

News
Military
On-Air
Taking Action
Traffic
Sports
Team 3
Contests
Events




Weather 

72°







72°


Low 49°
High 74°





Tue


					59°  80°
					


Wed


					63°  79°
					


Thu


					62°  75°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







Police: Missing UVa. student Hannah Graham seen running past gas station, entering Downtown Mall

Posted 6:53 am, September 17, 2014, by Matt Knight, Updated at 04:47pm, September 17, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. – Police searching for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham said a witness spotted the teenager enter the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville the morning she disappeared. The Downtown Mall is a pedestrian mall with stores and restaurants along either side.
Charlottesville Police Capt. Gary Pleasants said prior to the sighting on the Downtown Mall, a security camera at a nearby Shell gas station captured video of Graham running by the gas station, according to WTVR.
He said the video revealed no one was chasing her at the time, and was recorded just before 1 a.m. Saturday.
Charlottesville Police have asked businesses at the Downtown Mall to preserve security camera video so detectives could determine if it contained clues into what happened to Graham.

The updated timeline of the last hours anyone heard from Graham looks like this:

11: 50 p.m. Friday — Graham last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in the 200 block of 14th Street NW.
12:45 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on surveillance video outside of McGrady’s Pub on Grady Street.
12:55 a.m. Saturday — Graham seen on Shell station surveillance video on Preston Ave.
1 a.m. Saturday — Witness reports seeing Graham on Downtown Mall
1:20 a.m. Saturday — Graham sends a text to friends saying she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets.

Captain Pleasants said the camera outside McGrady’s Irish Pub showed Graham walking “in front of the building for several minutes, apparently it appears, maybe even talking to someone, and then walking away –leaving east bound on Grady at 12:46 a.m.”
That would be the opposite direction of her apartment, police said. Police said a blood hound picked up Graham’s scent right outside the Irish pub; but where it led them, they have not said.
Officers held a press conference Wednesday afternoon, to share and explain the videos. Ahead of sharing the videos, police said they believe Hannah lost her bearings.
Hannah Elizabeth Graham in her apartment building earlier in the night,
“We don’t know whether it was auto correct on her phone or she just typed it in wrong, we have no idea,” said Police Capt. Gary Pleasants about her final text, which police now believe had wrong information on her location.
“A lot of things happen when you send out messages and text, and we’re following that,” said Pleasants. Police said Graham was “fairly well intoxicated” at the time she was last seen.

Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (6 images)





Inline



 




Filed in: News 











 






Southern Bank
News Channel 3’s Proud Community Partner!







 

 


Popular



Couple together 34 years will receive first same-sex marriage license in Virginia Beach after SCOTUS rejects appeals



Photographer explores abandoned town, hotel in Great Smoky Mountains



Multi-million dollar lawsuit accuses Virginia Wesleyan lacrosse player of rape



Find out where you need to be to get the best view of next week’s Blood Moon







 


Latest News



U.S. Navy could ‘swarm’ foes with robot boats



Navy swaps deployment schedules for aircraft carriers Truman and Eisenhower



Surf for the Cure in Virginia Beach



Time-lapse video: Crew of the USS Bataan washes down the flight deck















News

Update: Police searching for ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham disappearance


News

Investigators examine possible connection between Jesse Matthew Jr. and murdered woman found on mountain


News

Jesse Matthew Jr. wanted for abduction of Hannah Graham


News

Arrest warrant issued after ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham case loses police during high-speed pursuit


News

New photos released of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham   



 


News

Hannah Graham’s parents: Someone can ‘End this nightmare’


News

UPDATE: DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew to Morgan Harrington’s death, source says


News

UPDATE: Police release details about person of interest in disappearance of Hannah Graham


News

Drone used in search for missing U. of Virginia student Hannah Graham


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Suspect in Hannah Graham case now back in Virginia


News

Hannah Graham search highlights Virginia drone battle






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App
VIPIR Android App
VIPIR iPhone App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23501  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTKR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



























Follow

Follow “WTKR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 15,333 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















