Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state | WTVR.com  
Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Drones deployed in search for Hannah Graham, a first for state

Posted 9:07 pm, October 1, 2014, by Joe St. George and CNN Wire, Updated at 09:32pm, October 1, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




CHARLOTTESVILLE, Virginia (CNN) — The search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham now includes the use of an aerial drone — the first time, according to authorities, one has been used in the search for a missing person in the state.
The addition of the drone to the seach effort comes more than two weeks after Graham disappeared from an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall, a pedestrian thoroughfare flanked by shops and restaurants in the downtown area.
The drone has a high-quality camera, and it will “look closer” at objects of interest, said John Coggin, chief engineer of the Mid-Atlantic Aviation Partnership and one of the members of the team operating the drone.
As the drone worked from overhead Wednesday, more than 50 law enforcement personnel participated in the search in Fairfax County.
New missing person poster released reflects increased reward.
Investigators believe Jesse Matthew, 32, was the last person with Graham, who was last seen September 13. He has been charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, and he is being held in jail in isolation, according to Charlottesville police.
Matthew is being held in isolation in a Virginia jail cell.
Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of the 18-year-old, a second-year student at the university.
More than 3,000 tips to Graham’s possible whereabouts have poured in, Carter Johnson, a police spokesman, said.
As part of the search effort, police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
The drone is expected to help with the search of vast tracts of land in the country.
The search of Wednesday also included U.S. Route 29, outside of Charlottesville, where another woman reportedly disappeared.
The search follows reports that Virginia State Police found a “new forensic link” between the Graham case and the death of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, who went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009.
Harrington was last seen hitchhiking along U.S. Route 29, and her remains were found on a farm months later.
Almost from the start, speculation was raised about the possibility of a connection between Graham’s disappearance and Harrington’s death.
No arrests have been made in Harrington’s case, and the cause of her death is still under investigation.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.

 



Filed in: News Topics: Drones, Hannah Elizabeth Graham 








			7 comments		




 

Pete

Your report in video that a gf broke up with him is curious, especially since it has never been reported that he worked at Martha Jefferson house. Could this information be spurious?




							October 2, 2014 at 12:04 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Troll

peite athynz you are confused as usual.  The report said the suspect’s girlfriend worked at the MJ house, not the suspect.  Oh well, at least you were able to use a new big word in a sentence.




							October 2, 2014 at 1:19 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

dune boon

soon all the pity party MF’ers is gonna die,come ask me about it,F U PIGS1




							October 2, 2014 at 1:01 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

Robbie

Won’t happen in Ferguson Missouri fast enough for me! Come ask me about it, F U Thugs2.




							October 2, 2014 at 7:49 am						

Reply
Report comment









 

G W

I’m saddened that with all the license plate counters that are out there, no one has a hit for Matthew’s vehicle. Is it possible that she is loacted within walking distance?




							October 2, 2014 at 10:04 am						

Reply
Report comment







 

G W

And don’t forget the cell phone records of Matthews. What about pinging her phone for her location?




							October 2, 2014 at 1:00 pm						

Reply
Report comment









 

Paula

Why haven’t the drone been use before for other missing people? It wasn’t use for alexa.




							October 2, 2014 at 10:39 pm						

Reply
Report comment






Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Drones deployed over Virginia to search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Hannah Graham searchers have an important message for Virginia hunters and hikers


News

Hannah Graham’s disappearance: What we know


News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Richmond billboards aid in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

University of Virginia students, football fans wear ‘Hope for Hannah’ ribbons


News

As search continues, chief promises to ‘honor commitment to find Hannah’


News

Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.


News

One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham



 


News

Crews search along Route 29, rural properties for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham


News

Tempo Bar owner: We did not serve Hannah Graham alcohol






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts








































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















