Reward offered for information in Graham case, person of interest described - The Daily Progress: Local  
Reward offered for information in Graham case, person of interest described - The Daily Progress: Local









            Close
        




















Place an Ad


Advertise With Us


Subscribe


Manage Subscription


Print Ads









            Welcome! 
        

Login|Signup


Login|My Dashboard|Register













Logout|My Dashboard












Reward offered for information in Graham case, person of interest described - The Daily Progress: Local

















69°  ClearCharlottesville, VA
























The Daily Progress




Home
 
News



Local


UVa


Business


Crime


Economy


Politics


Virginia Politics


In Case You Missed It


Multimedia


Email Alerts


RSS Feeds

 



















 
Opinion



Letters to the Editor


Editorials


Guest Columnists


McKenzie

 



















 
Sports



Cavalier Insider


High School


Whitey 365


Ratcliffe On


College Football


Football


College Basketball


Basketball


The Daily Run


Central Virginia Golf Magazine


Virginia Outdoor Weekly

 



















 
Entertainment



Local


The Latest


Calendar


Contests


Showtimes

 



















 
Lifestyles



Yesteryears Column


Vital Signs Column


Religion


Church Directory


Celebrations

 



















 
Obituaries
 
Weather
 
Magazines



Charlottesville Woman


The Rural Virginian


Homestyle


Readers Choice


Silver Linings


Welcome

 



















 
Video
 
Contests
 
Auto



Top Autos


Find a Car


Sell Your Car

 



















 
Homes



Top Homes


Top Rentals


Sell Your Home


Commercial


Mortgage Center


Vineyards & Farms

 



















 
Classifieds



Print Ads


Top Stuff


Pets


Place an Ad

 



















 
Jobs



Find a Job


Top Jobs


Employers

 



















 
Businesses














Monday, October 6, 2014 


















Home


News



Local





Reward offered for information in Graham case, person of interest described

StoryComments 
Image (6)


YouTube (1)




        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






Ryan M. Kelly
CDP 0919 Graham036.JPG
A volunteer search and rescue crew walks along Water Street during a continued search effort for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham on Thursday as the nTelos Wireless Pavilion is visible in the background on the Downtown Mall in Charlottesville, Va. Photo / Ryan M. Kelly / The Daily Progress







Graham
Hannah Elizabeth Graham







SUBMITTED IMAGE
Missing poster







ANDREW SHURTLEFF/THE DAILY PROGRESS
CDP 0918 graham421 .JPG
Charlottesville police Chief Tim Longo asks for help from the public in finding missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham during a press conference Wednesday afternoon at CitySpace on the Downtown Mall. Graham was last seen on surveillance footage early Saturday morning on the Downtown Mall.







Hannah Elizabeth Graham
Hannah Elizabeth Graham in her apartment building Friday Sept. 12.







Hannah Elizabeth Graham
Hannah Elizabeth Graham



 









Related YouTube Video























youtube
youtube
ziK66Oi1zig



Press Conference for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham read more

        
      Charlottesville police chief Tim Longo asks for help from the public in finding missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham Wednesday afternoon during a …













Related Documents







Graham timeline

JOHN G. OWNBY/RICHMOND-TIMES DISPATCH












        Posted: Thursday, September 18, 2014 9:00 am
         | 
        

                Updated: 11:30 am, Wed Sep 24, 2014.
            



Reward offered for information in Graham case, person of interest described




Updated at 4:30 p.m.
The city of Charlottesville, joined by the University of Virginia and local businesses and individuals, are offering $50,000 for any information that will shed light on the disappearance of Hannah Graham.
Police have also now released a description of the man seen in the video surveillance footage taken from the Downtown Mall that was last seen with his arm around Graham the night she disappeared. The man is not accused of anything by police.
A witness, who was also seen in the surveillance film walking in front of and later behind Graham, described the man as black, between 5 feet, 10 inches and 5 feet, 11 inches tall who weighed between 250 and 285 pounds with a close shaved head, a goatee and a slight “beer belly.”
The witness guessed that he was in either his late 20s or early 30s, and he was wearing black jeans and a white T-shirt when he was seen with Graham at the 500 block of East Main Street on the Downtown Mall.
Authorities have not accused this man of any wrongdoing.
Police asked the public to call the tip line at (434) 295-3851 if he is seen.
Updated at 1:30 p.m.
Efforts by city police to obtain more surveillance video from businesses on the Downtown Mall have not turned up any new leads in the investigation of Hannah Graham’s disappearance, investigators said Thursday.
Most businesses either do not have surveillance equipment or their equipment is internal, according to police Capt. Gary Pleasants.
As authorities continue investigating, students at the University of Virginia are planning a candlelight vigil Thursday night, dubbed “Bring Hannah Home.”
“We will join to demonstrate our ongoing support for Hannah’s search and loved ones,” said a press release sent out to by the UVa Student Council. “We will join to celebrate the unyielding hope that Hannah will come back to us.”
During the event, held at 9 p.m. at the McIntire Amphitheater, students will perform some of Graham’s favorite music, her favorite candy will be served, and memories of Graham will be shared.

Updated at 11:20 a.m.
The search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham will likely continue for several days, officials say.
Albemarle County Sheriff J.E. "Chip" Harding said the search command center has been moved to the Carver Recreation Center in downtown Charlottesville to provide a more comfortable location for a search likely to last for a while.
"It looks like it's going to go for a few more days and we wanted to have a more permanent location with more room," Harding said. "It also allows us a center from which to work should we need to send search teams to more remote areas."
Search teams from the Virginia Department of Emergency Management hit the city streets again this morning looking for Graham, Harding said.
"They met with investigators to look at probable areas to be searched based on what information investigators found overnight," Harding said. "Charlottesville is 10 square miles and Albemarle County is 723 square miles and it's important to determine what areas to look at."
Harding said his volunteer search and rescue team is helping out state search teams, but has surrendered the lead in the search.
"We've played a pretty small role overall in this," he said. "We can't maintain a long-term search because we're volunteers and we need to continue working. We help out when we can."

Updated at 9 a.m.
A man seen in surveillance video shadowing missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham over the weekend told police late Wednesday that she was talking to another man when he left the mall.
Charlottesville police Lt. Ronnie Roberts said the man identified in video taken from Sal's Pizza and Tuel Jewelers met with police last night.
Roberts did not release the man's name.
"He told police that he was following Ms. Graham as she looked to be somewhat physically distressed and he wanted to make sure she got safely to wherever she was going," Roberts said.
Video taken at 1:06 a.m. Saturday at 221 E. Main St. showed a white man walking into the camera frame, Roberts said. The man looked over his shoulder, then stepped into a doorway as Graham walked past. After she passed, the man started walking behind her. A second video, taken at 1:08 a.m. from a camera at 319 E. Main St., showed Graham walking with the same white man some distance behind her.
Roberts said the man in the video told police that a black man approached Graham and put his arm around her. They started to talk and the first man continued walking off of the mall.
"It appeared to the witness that the black male was either known to Ms. Graham or was trying to help her," Roberts said. "The witness then walked away and he said that Ms. Graham and the black male were still standing and talking when he left. The black male is not shown in either of these videos."
Police are asking that anyone with information about Graham's disappearance contact a tip line at (434) 295-3851.

 
Late Wednesday, the evolving search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham took another turn with the revelation that she’d been seen in new video followed by a man on the Downtown Mall.
Whether that would lead to new clues to her whereabouts wasn’t clear at press time Wednesday, four days after the second-year student went missing.
Police spent much of the day scouring the mall and working to gather more video, capped in the afternoon with a plea for help from city police Chief Timothy J. Longo, who asked that anyone who might have seen her contact a tip line set up and manned by the FBI.
“I’d be very disturbed that someone on this Downtown Mall did not see that young lady, or has not called the police to report [that they did],” Longo said. “I’m hoping that they’re hearing my words and seeing my frustration, hearing the pain that this family is experiencing, pick up the phone and tell us something, regardless of how insignificant you think it might be.”
Two new videos emerged late Wednesday showing Graham, 18, on the Downtown Mall after 1 a.m. Saturday with two people walking nearby.
Police said she met friends for dinner Friday evening at a restaurant on The Corner. According to friends, police said, she left alone about 11 p.m. and proceeded to at least two other locations — Camden Plaza apartments and a house party near 14th Street Northwest — a short distance away. Police said they believe Graham lost her bearings after leaving the second location, heading north on 10th Street Northwest.
She was seen on video surveillance near McGrady’s Pub on Grady Avenue walking west past the bar at 12:43 a.m. A few minutes later, she was seen in video walking to the door of the bar before continuing east on Preston Avenue. Police said she never entered the bar. Police are seeking to speak with the pub’s doorman. Management at McGrady’s Pub has been advised by police not to comment.
A second surveillance video shows Graham walking past a Shell station on Preston at 12:55 a.m., first running and then slowing to a stop. Police said it did not seem that she was followed at that time.
Minutes later, an eyewitness sitting in her car spotted Graham walking south from Market Street toward the Downtown Mall.
Late Wednesday night, Capt. Gary Pleasants of Charlottesville police said new video surveillance, time stamped at 1:06 a.m. Saturday, shows a white male walking down the 200 block of East Main Street, who “glances briefly over his shoulder, then steps into a doorway and stops.” Moments later, Graham is seen walking by the same doorway, and the white male steps out and follows her.
In a second video, filmed two minutes later in the 300 block of East Main Street, Graham appears to be accompanied by someone, who may be male or female, and the same white male is following close behind.
No additional information was gleaned from the new footage Wednesday night.
Longo said police contacted other local merchants who have surveillance equipment and asked them to hold the tapes so they could be reviewed. He said there are no city surveillance cameras on the Downtown Mall, something Longo said he has long sought from the City Council.
Text messages sent about 1:20 a.m. to friends from Graham’s phone said that she was lost near 14th Street Northwest, though police said that because of the direction she was heading, they doubt she was in that location when the texts were sent.
Longo said Graham appeared to have been drinking, based on accounts from people who were at parties she had attended. He said that spoke to her potential vulnerability at the time of her disappearance, Longo said. He lamented that her level of intoxication had become a focal point in some corners.
“Folks have gone very quickly to that issue and have attacked the character of this young lady, and I think unfairly,” the chief said. “I find it unfortunate that people are latching onto that, and speaking poorly of a young lady’s character — an individual they don’t even know.”
Graham’s parents, who have chosen to speak only through police and the University of Virginia, said in a statement they suspected “foul play” and called it “totally out of character” for their daughter not to contact them.
“Hannah is beyond precious to us and we are truly devastated by her disappearance,” the statement said. “We will not rest until we find her, and she comes home.”
Charlottesville police have asked landowners near the Downtown Mall to search their property for traces of Graham.
 “I can’t imagine — as a parent, as a husband — I can’t imagine what [Graham’s parents and family] are going through these past couple of days,” Longo said. “This department’s focus is to find their daughter — first and foremost, to find their daughter — and by the grace of God to return her to their care.”
While police continue their search, UVa President Teresa A. Sullivan issued a statement Wednesday recommending that parents keep in contact with their students and encourage them to seek counseling, if needed.
“If your son or daughter seems to be in distress, do not hesitate to refer them to professional counseling if you believe it would be helpful for them. UVa’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) department has trained clinicians who can help students manage anxiety or other emotions they may be feeling,” Sullivan wrote.
“You are perhaps the most important resource for your student. Many students will seek advice and reassurance from their families,” Sullivan wrote. “If you become concerned about your student’s resilience or health, please let me, Vice President Pat Lampkin, or [UVa Dean of Students Allen Groves] know of your concerns.”
Sullivan sent a similar message Tuesday to staff and faculty.
“We are encouraging our students to maintain their daily schedules. Having structure in their day will help them in coping with uncertainty, and I hope that those of you who teach and support our students will help them stay on track,” she wrote. “If students come to you in distress, I know that you will be understanding and listen to them carefully, but you should also not hesitate to refer them to professional counseling if you believe it would be helpful for them.”
Authorities describe Graham as white, 5 feet, 11 inches tall, with a slender build, blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. Anyone with more information is urged to contact the police tip line at (434) 295-3851.
Staff writer Bryan McKenzie contributed to this story.
 


 

























            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Local,
        News,
        Uva
        
        on 
        
            Thursday, September 18, 2014 9:00 am. 
            
                Updated: 11:30 am.












 













tab 0
tab 1




























                    Like us on Facebook!
                







Latest Local Offers





        
        Sign Up Today! FREE Registration – a $125 Value!
        


            Sign Up TODAY!  FREE Registration – a $125 Value at Kiddie Academy of Charlottesville! Call 434-202-1062 or stop by today for more information. 






        
        Lifetime Warranty
        


            LIFETIME WARRANTY only at Harrisonburg Ford. Contact us for more details!






        
        Gear Up and Go Sales Event!
        


            The Gear Up and Go Sales Event is going on now at Beverage Tractor. Stop by today or visit our website for more info!






        
        Stop in at H.L. Lang’s
        


            Stop in at H.L. Lang’s to see our Morganite & Diamond Jewelry. Other varieties of styles also available including Rose Gold w/ Diamonds.






        
        Come Experience Spring Creek for Yourself!
        


            Come Experience Spring Creek for Yourself! Lifestyle. Convenience. Affordability. Grand opening of our NEW Clubhouse in August!






        
        Free Pick up & Delivery
        


            Free Pick up & Delivery within 25 miles for your tractor, mower or zero turn. Call, stop in today or visit us online at www.arbortechsupply.com for more details. 




› View more local offers





tab 0
tab 1
tab 2






























                    Featured Businesses
                


Roy Wheeler Realty CompanyRoy Wheeler Realty Co.
In 1927, Charlottesville was introduced to a new way of doing real estate. Roy Wheeler founded the ambitious Roy Wheeler Realty Co. with the aim of providing buyers and sellers with unbeatable service. Today, more than 85 years later, when people think about Charlottesville real estate, the name “Roy Wheeler” is still the first name that comes to mind. Our team of more than 100 Central Virginia real estate agents work hard in order to ensure that real estate buyers and sellers get exactly what they need. Roy Wheeler realty has five offices located throughout Central Virginia, including our main office in the historic Ednam Hall mansion. Our Central Virginia real estate agents are perfectly positioned to serve you better than any other real estate company can.  
Looking for a vacation home at Wintergreen Resort? A Wintergreen real estate agent can take care of you! Interested in moving to a historic property in Keswick, Virginia? Our nearby offices will help you! View the contact information for our offices here: We specialize in a variety of Central Virginia and Charlottesville real estate properties, including farms and estates, classic homes, residential properties, secondary/vacation homes, and commercial sales and leasing. Find out why we have an almost 99% customer satisfaction rate, and start searching for your next home today! View our Central Virginia homes for sale through our detailed property search tool.
Have questions? Give us a call at (434) 951-5155 or email us at homes@roywheeler.com. We look forward to helping you find the perfect Central Virginia home for sale.
 
Residential Real Estate Company serving Central Virginia. Established in 1927. Tradition of trust and industry leaders. Cutting Edge.Mt. Crawford Creamery 
OUR HISTORY
The Will farm in Mt. Crawford had its beginning when Thomas J. Will purchased the land at auction in December 1924. He then moved his family from Timberville, VA that winter and began farming in the spring. For the next 27 years he operated it as a general livestock and crop farm, raising cattle, growing hay and corn with wheat being his cash crop.
In 1952 his grandsons, Melvin Will, Jr. and James L. Will, purchased the farm from him. They built a dairy farm and began milking cows, selling their milk to the local co-op, Valley of Virginia Milk Producers Cooperative Associate, better known as their trademark name Shenandoah’s Pride.
In 1979 Melvin Will suffered a severe stroke and his sons Kenneth and Frank assumed the day to day operation of the farm while caring for their father and their mother who was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis in 1970.
Will Brothers continued on as a dairy farm and purchased a second farm in 1989. Kenneth, his wife, Karen, and three children moved to the second farm in 1990 and assumed the daily operations there, while Frank continued to live and work on the original farm. Kenneth’s children, Daniel, Jeremy, and Nancy grew up working on the farm and now their own families have become a part of the farm living there while working to keep it for the next generation. These include Jeremy’s wife, Lauren and their two children, Ariel and Edward, Nancy’s husband Isaac Hill, and Frank’s wife, Cheryl.
Melvin’s death in 1997 left Kenneth and Frank with a very large estate tax which severely depleted their cash reserves. In 2009 a disastrous depression in the price of milk led them to the realization that if they were to continue farming significant changes would have to occur. After more than two years of discussion and meetings, research, and study it was decided that adding value by processing and selling our own milk was the best option.
With no other dairy processing and bottling milk in the area, we want to share with the people of the Shenandoah Valley fresh milk produced by a family that has been in the community for generations. We want to give our neighbors and friends milk from their own community, where they can see the happy cows munching on fresh green, grass and know they have a quality product they too can be proud of when they take a drink.
At that point permits were applied for and bids taken for buildings and equipment. A machine shed and calf barn were constructed in the winter of 2012 to replaces one which had to be removed. Ground was broken in 2012 for the milk processing plant itself and we opened for business on Saturday, May 11, 2013.
We hope you become a part of our family and allow us into yours.
http://www.statesville.com/finditlocal/great-usa-dog-treats/business_4000046347.html
 
Buy 10 Gallons of Milk and Get 1 Gallon FREE!Fantastic Sams 
Whether it's our salon service or our line of products, Fantastic Sams Culpeper gets you looking good and feeling good about how affordable we are.Chauncey's Smokehouse & Bar 
The best BBQ restaurant in the area! Live music and cold beer!  
Moonshine Bar Now OPEN!Dixon Disposal 
Dixon Disposal provides all in one can recycling in the Charlottesville Area. Cost effective and environmentally sound services to your garbage disposal needs.
Dixon Disposal is locally owned and family run.  We work ALL DAYS except Christmas, we don’t require a contract, and we give stellar service to all of our customers. SIGN UP  for Dixon Disposal’s all-in-one-can recycling™ and make life easier and the world cleaner!
See more at: http://dixondisposal.com
 We accept check, money order, cash and PayPal payments through our website.Valley VolkswagenValley Volkswagen is the premier Central Virginia Volkswagen dealer with a convenient Staunton location and a large stock of new and used cars, trucks and SUVs - including fuel efficient hybrids. Just a short drive from Lexington, Harrisonburg, Charlottesville and Lynchburg, we serve as a convenient Volkswagen dealer and repair shop for all of Central Virginia. Our dealership has been in business for over 40 years and prides itself on dedication to not only the customer, but the entire customer experience.Originally founded in 1966 as a family-owned and operated store, Rule Auto grew to become Staunton's premiere Honda, Volkswagen and RV dealer. In October 2010, Rule Auto became Valley Volkswagen and Valley Honda, proud additions to Carter Myers Automotive - a group of family-owned dealerships serving Central Virginia since 1924. Times have changed, but our commitment to integrity, respect, service and value never will. Come visit us at Valley Honda. You will see a lot of familiar faces and some new ones too.Valley Volkswagen is the premier Central Virginia Volkswagen dealer with a convenient Staunton location and a large stock of new and used cars, trucks and SUVs - including fuel efficient hybrids. Just a short drive from Lexington, Harrisonburg, Charlottesville and Lynchburg, we serve as a convenient Volkswagen dealer and repair shop for all of Central Virginia. Our dealership has been in business for over 40 years and prides itself on dedication to not only the customer, but the entire customer experience.Originally founded in 1966 as a family-owned and operated store, Rule Auto grew to become Staunton's premiere Honda, Volkswagen and RV dealer. In October 2010, Rule Auto became Valley Volkswagen and Valley Honda, proud additions to Carter Myers Automotive - a group of family-owned dealerships serving Central Virginia since 1924. Times have changed, but our commitment to integrity, respect, service and value never will. Come visit us at Valley Honda. You will see a lot of familiar faces and some new ones too.
































The Daily Progress, Charlottesville, VA ©  2014 BH Media Group Holdings, Inc.  Terms and Conditions | Work With Us



TITLE



Daily Progress:


Contact Us


Email Alerts


Mobile Alerts


RSS


Site Search


Mobile Apps


Find Charlottesville Jobs




TITLE



Partners:


Cavalier Insider


Data Center


Charlottesville Tomorrow


cvillepedia


HeadlineVA




TITLE



Regional Partner Links:


Culpeper Star Exponent


Waynesboro News Virginian


Orange County Review


Madison County Eagle


Greene County Record













Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






            Need an account? Create one now.
        


























