Police return to search apartment of person of interest in case of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham  - NY Daily News 

Police return to search apartment of person of interest in case of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham  - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Police return to search apartment of person of interest in case of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham  Charlottesville police searched an apartment belonging to Jesse Matthew for a second time Monday. The 32-year-old man, wanted on reckless driving charges, is believed to be the last person to have seen the missing 18-year-old when she vanished on Sept. 13.  BY   Nina Golgowski     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Monday, September 22, 2014, 4:44 PM Updated: Monday, September 22, 2014, 6:26 PM  A A A        Share this URL                Police Handout A wanted poster for Jesse Matthew, 32, was released by Charlottesville, Va., police Monday. Matthew is believed to be the last person to have seen missing student, Hannah Graham.    
	Authorities have once again set their sights on an apartment belonging to a person of interest in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.

	Police in Charlottesville were seen carrying out a second search warrant for Jesse Matthew's home Monday ahead of releasing a wanted posted for the 32-year-old man.

	Matthew was the last person seen with the missing 18-year-old sophomore in the early hours of Sept. 13 when she mysteriously vanished.

	His apartment was first searched Friday morning and his 1998 Chrysler coupe, which police say Graham at one point entered, has been seized for forensic testing.       Facebook 
Hannah Elizabeth Graham, a sophmore at the University of Virginia, was last seen in the early hours of Sept. 13.  Enlarge      Facebook 
Hannah Elizabeth Graham, a sophmore at the University of Virginia, was last seen in the early hours of Sept. 13.  Enlarge  
Hannah Elizabeth Graham, a sophmore at the University of Virginia, was last seen in the early hours of Sept. 13. 
  

	While Matthew has not been charged in Graham's disappearance, he is wanted for two counts of reckless driving after allegedly leading police on a high-speed chase Saturday.

	Police said Matthew had gone to the police station to request a lawyer and was given one but before he answered any questions about the night of Graham's disappearance he bolted.

	He's said to have contacts in Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Washington D.C.      INSIDE EDITION Matthew is seen as a high school football player in a photo taken around 1997.    INSIDE EDITION Matthew, who is described by police as a person of interested in the disapperance of Hannah Graham, is seen in 1998.    INSIDE EDITION Matthew is seen again in 2000. He is today wanted on charges of reckless driving, as well as for questioning in the 18-year-old's disappearance.    Previous Next       Enlarge  

	"I believe Jesse Matthew was the last person she was seen with before she vanished off the face of the Earth because it's been a week and we can't find her," Charlottesville police Chief Timothy J. Longo said Sunday.

	Police previously said that surveillance video captured the 32-year-old putting his arm around Graham outside of a downtown mall around 1 a.m.

	The pair then went to a nearby restaurant where Matthew purchased alcohol, despite the teen already appearing well intoxicated. They then left in his Chrysler Coupe, said police.      Ryan M. Kelly/AP Charlottesville and Albemarle County police are seen searching a Hessian Hills apartment Friday in connection to the disapperance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.    Ryan M. Kelly/AP Police Chief Timothy J. Longo speaks with reporters outside a Hessian Hills apartment as the search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham continues on Friday.    Ryan M. Kelly/AP Charlottesville and Albemarle County police are seen searching a Hessian Hills apartment Friday in connection to the disapperance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.    Charlottesville Police Department Charlottesville Police Department have released surveillance video that shows a man, Jesse Matthew, walking close behind missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham just before she disappeared.    Previous Next        Enlarge  

	Earlier, another man who was seen following Graham on surveillance video told police that he was trailing the student out of concern for her safety.

	He said she appeared drunk and upset. He backed off from her, he said, once he saw her running into another man who she appeared to know.

	It’s not clear if the man she allegedly ran into was Matthew.       Facebook 
	Police believe that Jesse Matthew, pictured, is the last person to have seen the 18-year-old student on the night she disappeared. Enlarge      Facebook 
	Police believe that Jesse Matthew, 32, is the last person to have seen the 18-year-old student, pictured, on the night she disappeared. Enlarge  
	Police believe that Jesse Matthew, left, is the last person to have seen the 18-year-old student, right, on the night she disappeared.
  

	A $50,000 reward is being offered for information leading to Graham's safe return.

With News Wire Services

ngolgowski@nydailynews.com    Related Stories  Man seen with missing UVA student wanted for reckless driving        2,000 volunteers hunt for missing UVA student       'Major break' in hunt for UVA student Hannah Graham: cops       Mom of slain Va. student sees similarities in missing Hannah Graham case       Man followed missing UVA student on night she vanished: video          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Queen Elizabeth dubs Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog       7   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      8   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     9   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     10   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      