Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham | Q13 FOX News  

Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham | Q13 FOX News






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






Q13 FOX News

 Menu

News
This Morning
Sports
Traffic
Pick My Pet
Washington’s Most Wanted
On-Air
Events




Weather 

65°







65°


Low 59°
High 70°





Tue


					58°  69°
					


Wed


					57°  68°
					


Thu


					56°  66°
					


See complete forecast












 Show off your pride, Seahawks fans! (SUBMIT YOUR PHOTO)						



 Supreme court decision means same-sex marriage can begin in Indiana, Utah, Oklahoma, Virginia, Wisconsin immediately						



 5 things to watch for in Monday’s Seattle vs. Washington game						
















Drone used in search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham

Posted 5:40 PM, October 1, 2014, by Q13 FOX News Staff 

TwitterFacebookGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 




Photo Gallery


 View Gallery (5 images)










CHARLOTTESVILLE, Virginia (CNN) — The search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham now includes the use of an aerial drone — the first time, according to authorities, one has been used in the search for a missing person in the state.
The addition of the drone to the seach effort comes more than two weeks after Graham disappeared from an area of Charlottesville known as the Downtown Mall.
The drone has a high-quality camera, and it will “look closer” at objects of interest, said John Coggin, chief engineer of the Mid-Atlantic Aviation Partnership and one of the members of the team operating the drone.

As the drone worked from overhead Wednesday, more than 50 law enforcement personnel participated in the search in Fairfax County.
Investigators believe Jesse Matthew, 32, was the last person with Graham, who was last seen September 13. He has been charged with abduction with the intent to defile in the case, and he is being held in jail in isolation, according to Charlottesville police.
Matthew is being held in isolation in a Virginia jail cell.
Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the safe return of the 18-year-old, a second-year student at the university.
More than 3,000 tips to Graham’s possible whereabouts have poured in, Carter Johnson, a police spokesman, said.
As part of the search effort, police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back.
The drone is expected to help with the search of vast tracts of land in the country.
The search of Wednesday also included U.S. Route 29, outside of Charlottesville, where another woman reportedly disappeared.
The search follows reports that Virginia State Police found a “new forensic link” between the Graham case and the death of Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, who went missing after attending a Metallica concert in Charlottesville in October 2009.
Harrington was last seen hitchhiking along U.S. Route 29, and her remains were found on a farm months later.
Almost from the start, speculation was raised about the possibility of a connection between Graham’s disappearance and Harrington’s death.
No arrests have been made in Harrington’s case, and the cause of her death is still under investigation.


CNN’s Jason Morris, Ed Lavandera, Jean Casarez and journalist Betsy Kaufman contributed to this report.




Trademark and Copyright 2014 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Filed in: National & World News 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 















 RED BAND SOCIETY
New Episode WED 9p
See Steven Spielberg’s latest project. Watch Red Band Society on Q13 FOX.












Popular



WATCH:  Police, NORAD investigate reports of 3 mysterious objects in sky



Get ready to see blood moon, total lunar eclipse from Northwest (PHOTOS)



New Jersey boy went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



SEE IT:  Man’s heated confrontation with panhandler goes viral










Latest News



Ultra-marathoner trying to ‘run’ from Florida to Bermuda in bubble rescued by Coast Guard



Police: Miami Dolphins lineman arrested after confrontation with officer



FOLLOW UP:  Elderly panhandler caught on camera getting into new car attacks news crew (VIDEO)



‘Home Sharing’ pairs unlikely strangers as NYC rent spikes















Crime National & World News

Hannah Graham case: Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in ’03


National & World News

Mother speaks out about missing daughter: ‘Help end this nightmare’


National & World News

What we know about Virginia college student’s disappearance


Crime National & World News

DNA links suspect in Hannah Graham case to 2 missing Virginia women


National & World News

Police plead for help to find missing Virginia student






National & World News

Hannah Graham disappearance: What we know


National & World News

Hannah Graham case suspect denied bond after being found on Texas beach


National & World News

Arrest warrants issued for man suspected of abducting missing student Hannah Graham


National & World News

Suspect in Hannah Graham disappearance arrives back in Virginia


National & World News

Major break: Police search car, apartment in case of missing Virginia student






Crime National & World News

REPORT:  Forensic evidence links Hannah Graham suspect to murdered Virginia Tech student


National & World News

Suspect taken into custody in case of missing University of Virginia student


National & World News

Videos offer clues in search for missing University of Virginia student (PHOTOS)






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1813 Westlake Ave. N. Seattle, WA 98109  •
		Copyright © 2014, KCPQ		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts



































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















