Police release photos of missing UVA student Hannah Graham on night she disappeared - NY Daily News 

Police release photos of missing UVA student Hannah Graham on night she disappeared - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Police release photos of missing UVA student Hannah Graham on night she disappeared Police in Charlottesville have made public new photos showing the 18-year-old University of Virginia student at her apartment Friday night. She was last seen early Saturday morning after a night of partying, police and friends said.  BY   Philip Caulfield     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Tuesday, September 16, 2014, 9:32 AM Updated: Wednesday, September 17, 2014, 8:25 AM  A A A        Share this URL                Charlottesville Police Department Missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham, 18, is pictured at her Charlottesville apartment building Friday night.    
	Police have released security camera photos showing a University of Virginia student just hours before she went missing over the weekend amid a night of partying.

	The new pics show Hannah Elizabeth Graham walking through her apartment building in a shiny crop top and dark pants at about 9:30 p.m. Friday, hours before police said she texted friends to say she had become lost while walking home from a party, local CBS 6 reported.

	The 18-year-old "second year," UVA's phrase for sophomores, was last seen at about 1 a.m. Saturday morning near the Camden Plaza Apartments in Charlottesville, while friend say she may have also been on Main St. or Wertland St. near campus, police said.

	The search for her continued Tuesday, as authorities pored over her cell phone records, computer data and bank account information, police told ABC News. 

	Bloodhounds were searching a wooded area near campus, while the university president was imploring students from the prestigious Charlottesville university to come forward with any leads they may have.      

	Graham's family asked that the address of the building where the new pictures were taken was not released.

	Friends said the brown-haired, blue-eyed student spent Friday night partying with friends and decided to walk home at the end of the night.

	Cops said she was "fairly well intoxicated," local WTVR-TV reported.

	Friends reported her missing at around 4:30 p.m. Sunday after realizing several people had not seen or heard from her since Friday night.       Facebook 
	Graham was last heard from on Saturday morning, her school said. Enlarge      Facebook 
	Friends said they received a text from her at about 1:20 a.m. to say she had become lost while walking home. Enlarge  
	Friends said they received a text from Graham at about 1:20 a.m. saying she had become lost while walking home, local CBS 6 reported.
  

	"I think it's real tragic when anything like this happens," UVA fourth year student Brannon Johnson told local media.

	"It definitely questions everything in terms of safety and how everyone is going to react and move around grounds for sure."

	Police said Graham stood at 5 feet, 11 inches, with a skinny build.

	She went to high school in Fairfax County, though her parents live in England. They were in Virginia on Tuesday and helping authorities with the search.        Facebook 
	Hannah Elizabeth Graham, an 18-year-old girl from University of Virginia, has been reported missing. Enlarge      Facebook 
	Graham's disappearance happened in suspicious circumstances, prompting an outpouring of concern in the community. Enlarge  
	The 18-year-old second year student was from Fairfax, Va. A search for her continued Tuesday.
  

	“Hannah was really good at making friends,” Katie Schreiber told ABC News. “She’s always one of the first people to talk to you. And she’s so friendly, so outgoing.”

	Anyone with information about her was asked to contact the Charlottesville police at 434-970-3280 or Crimestoppers at 434-977-4000.

	In a statement, university president Teresa Sullivan said, "The members of the University of Virginia community are united in our deep concern for U-Va. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham."

On a mobile device? Click here to watch video.    Related Stories    Police searching for missing University of Virginia student           


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog       7   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      8   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     9   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     10   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      