Virginia mystery: Who was Morgan Harrington? - CNN.com 
Virginia mystery: Who was Morgan Harrington? - CNN.com





















SET EDITION:  U.S.
INTERNATIONAL
MÉXICO
ARABIC




TV:  
CNN
CNNi
CNN en Español
HLN





Sign up
Log in

















Home
TV & Video

U.S.
World
Politics
Justice
Entertainment
Tech
Health
Living
Travel
Opinion
iReport
Money
Sports


















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











The family of Morgan Harrington -- a 'true original' -- searches for answers 



By Dana Ford, CNN
updated 8:21 AM EDT, Wed October 1, 2014
















STORY HIGHLIGHTS


Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, disappeared in October 2009
Her remains were found on a farm the following year 
Authorities have linked her death to the disappearance of Hannah Graham











(CNN) -- Gone but not forgotten.
Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, disappeared in October 2009. Her remains were found a few months later.
Her death remains a mystery, but it's back in the news this week because of the arrest of Jesse Matthew -- the only known suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Virginia State Police have not said how the two cases are connected, except to say there is a "new forensic link."




Cops: DNA links Matthew to 2009 murder





Hannah Graham joins growing missing list





Police: Jesse Matthew linked to 2009 case

They are pursing that link with the hope of being able to provide, finally, some sort of closure for the Harrington family -- whatever that may look like.
"There's a suspect, and possibility of a link to Morgan's murder, and I am so pleased that that has happened, but it doesn't change a lot for us, in some ways," Harrington's mother, Gil Harrington, told CNN affiliate WSLS on Monday.
"You know, our bedroom is still empty upstairs. We're still not going to have the grandchildren, the wedding, those things," she said.
Can arrest in Hannah Graham disappearance solve other cases?
The disappearance
Harrington disappeared on October 17, 2009, after attending a Metallica concert at the University of Virginia's John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville, Virginia.
She had been so excited about the concert, according to her mother, that she posted the tickets on the refrigerator about six months ahead of time. She tried on three outfits before settling on what to wear, a crystal necklace and a black T-shirt with the word "Pantera" spelled out in tan letters.
Police say she left her friends to use the restroom during the concert. When she did not return, her friends called her cell phone.
Harrington told them she was outside the arena and could not get back in because of its re-entry policy but not to worry and that she would find a ride home.
There are restroom inside the arena and, to this day, it's not clear why she left.
Witnesses later saw someone matching Harrington's description walking along a nearby bridge. No further sightings were reported.
Harrington's purse, along with her identification and cell phone, was found the following day in an overflow parking lot near the arena.




Hannah Elizabeth Graham, left, and Morgan Harrington





The FBI issued this composite drawing of the suspect in a 2005 sexual assault that is linked by DNA evidence to the 2009 murder of Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington.

Her remains were discovered January 2010 on a nearby farm.
Another link
On a website dedicated to Harrington, the education major is described as a "true original."
"Time is moving on so very quickly, but we are not. We are stuck in the limbo of not knowing, the purgatory of no answers, no justice. How can it be possible that 4 years! of investigation has not ferreted out your murderer (s?) We are determined to do just that, find him. Frantic actually, to find him before he kills again," it reads.
Besides the connection to the Graham case, police have linked Harrington's death with the kidnapping and assault of another woman in Fairfax, Virginia, in 2005.
That woman, who survived the attack, was able to provide police with enough of a description to make a sketch.
Authorities have not publicly identified the woman who gave the description but have said her case was connected to Harrington's case through DNA.
If Matthew is linked to Harrington's death, and Harrington's death is linked to the kidnapping and rape of the woman in Fairfax, then is Matthew linked to the Fairfax case?
So many questions. So few answers.
But there's at least one thing Harrington's family knows -- and for which it is grateful.
"I know where Morgan is. However this unfolds, I know where my girl is. She's in a box in the living room," Harrington's mother told WSLS.
"Hannah Graham's family do not know where their daughter is," she said. "We need to find her. The investigation needs to find her and, most of all, her family needs to find her."

HLN's Nancy Grace and CNN's Mariano Castillo and Eliott McLaughlin contributed to this report.





















































Part of complete coverage on 
Where is Hannah Graham?


DNA links suspect to other cases

updated 6:38 PM EDT, Thu October 2, 2014




DNA evidence links Jesse Matthew, the suspect in the disappearance of Hannah Graham, to other cases in Virginia.



Parents: 'This person might be involved'

updated 2:32 PM EDT, Wed October 1, 2014




It was the picture of Jesse Matthew that made the father of slain Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington do a double-take. 



Where is Hannah Graham?

updated 8:23 AM EDT, Wed October 1, 2014




It was late on a Friday night and a freckled, blue-eyed student named Hannah Graham was partying in downtown Charlottesville, Virginia.



What led up to Graham's disappearance?

updated 7:08 PM EDT, Fri September 26, 2014




CNN's Erin McPike looks at the timeline of Hannah Graham's movements the night she went missing in Virginia.



Family of Morgan Harrington searches for answers 

updated 8:21 AM EDT, Wed October 1, 2014




Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, disappeared in 2009. Her remains were found a few months later but her death remains a mystery.



Suspect investigated for alleged sex assault in '03

updated 9:38 AM EDT, Thu October 2, 2014




Jesse Matthew was investigated for alleged sexual assault when he was in college over a decade ago.



Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Graham suspect

updated 9:43 PM EDT, Thu October 2, 2014




Police across the state are scrambling to determine whether Jesse Matthew is linked to other slayings and disappearances. 



Video shows missing UVA student

updated 3:25 PM EDT, Thu September 18, 2014




Police in Charlottesville, Virginia, gave more details on the man seen on video following missing student Hannah Graham.



Graham joins growing missing list

updated 10:09 PM EDT, Mon September 29, 2014




CNN's Randi Kaye reports on other missing girls who have vanished in the same area of UVA student Hannah Graham.



Dad: Every parent's worst nightmare

updated 11:08 AM EDT, Sat September 27, 2014




The father of missing student Hannah Graham addresses the media and asks people to come forward if they know something.



Reporter: UVA suspect called a 'prowler'

updated 7:31 PM EDT, Fri September 26, 2014




Investigative journalist Coy Barefoot spoke with Jesse Matthews' friends about the night Hannah Graham disappeared.


 






















       



    



    



     




           



Home | Video | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports
Tools & widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts  | Desktop Alerts | CNN shop | Site map | Contact us 



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión
العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts | 


© 2014 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Work for us | Help
CNN Newsource | License Footage





      








