UPDATED: Police Hold Press Conference on Missing UVa. Student 
UPDATED: Police Hold Press Conference on Missing UVa. Student

























October 6, 2014



Community Counts
HealthLink
Apps







Search





 




















 



Home 
News  

News

News Headlines
Need to Know
Breaking News Alerts
News Video
Live Stream
Education
Meet the News Team
News Tip
Polls
Politics
State/Regional
Affordable Care Act


Weather  

Weather

Closings & Delays
Interactive Radar
Skyline Network
Severe Weather Alerts
Weather Authority Facebook
CBS19Weather Twitter
Meet the Weather Team
3-Degree Guarantee


Sports  

Sports

Sports Headlines
Friday Night EndZone
UVa Athletics
ACC
High School SportsZone
Meet the Sports Team
Student Athlete of the Week
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em


Features  

Features

Barefoot Excursions
Blue Ridge Outdoors
Dental Minute
Edible Blue Ridge
Inside Charlottesville
Jay James on Faith
Pet Project
Political Tuesday
Real Estate III TV
Stephanie's Heroes
Street Safe Teens
UVa Today
What's Going Around
Wine Wednesdays


HealthLINK 
Skyline Network  

Skyline Network

All Cameras
CHO Airport
Fork Union
Martha Jefferson
Old Trail Village
Westminster


Pump Patrol 
Life  

Life

Entertainment
Lottery
MomsEveryday
MyCapture
Pouring in Virginia
TXTL8R


Community  

Community

Community Calendar
VNB Community Counts
Martha Jefferson HealthWise
TXT L8R


Contests  

Contests

Auto Racing Challenge
Dralion Text 2 Win Contest
Fan of the Day
Gridiron Challenge
NFL Pigskin Pick'em
TXT L8R Sweepstakes
Wildlife Photo Contest
3 Degree Guarantee


Station  

Station

Contact Us
Email Directory
Meet the Team
Creative Services
Advertise with Us
Closed Captioning
Program Guide
CBS Shows
Public File
Video Request Form
Waiver Information
Your Feedback


Connect  

Connect

Android App
iPhone / iPad Apps
E-News
Newsplex Facebook
Newsplex Twitter
Newsplex Text Alerts
Newsplex YouTube
RSS Feeds


Jobs  

Jobs

Newsplex Jobs
VA Job Connections
Job of the Day







 

















UPDATED: Police Hold Press Conference on Missing UVa. Student



Updated: Wed 8:50 PM, Sep 17, 2014















Home
 / Headlines List
 / Article 











 Watch Video
					



 View Gallery
					





























More Video...













																						Police Hold Press Conference on Missing UVa. Student (5p)
														










																						Police Press Conference on Graham Investigation (4p)
														






































More Stories
Volunteers Help Widen Search for Hannah Graham
UPDATED: Family Releases Statement as Police Expand Search for Hannah Graham















Sept. 17, 2014
Charlottesville Police expanded their search Wednesday for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham.
"In the search for Hannah, the more time that goes by, the more difficult it is and the harder it could be for her certainly” said Captain Gary Pleasants with Charlottesville Police.
As the search for Graham enters its fourth day, new tips have police shifting their search from beyond the Corner area, trying to retrace Hannah's last steps.
Graham was seen on Grady Avenue at 12:45 a.m. Friday night/ Saturday morning near McGrady’s Irish Pub.
Ten minutes later, she was seen on surveillance video walking past the Shell gas station on Preston Avenue.
At 1 a.m. Saturday morning, an eyewitness saw Hannah near Fellini’s #9 walking towards the Downtown Mall.
Detectives spent Wednesday going door to door asking business owners along the Downtown Mall for their surveillance video to get a better idea of where Hannah may have been heading.
"The police came in. They were going door to door asking if anyone had surveillance footage from outside,” said Deborah Poulin, a store employee on the Downtown Mall.
"I think more cameras really could help, especially with security,” Mark Briggs, a business owner, said.
Hannah was last heard from through text message, telling her friends she was lost but on her way to meet them at a party around 1:20 Saturday morning. 
She hasn't been seen or heard from since.
Virginia State Police, UVa. and Charlottesville Police all involved in the search for Hannah Graham. 
Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo led a press conference for reporters this afternoon, releasing new surveillance video showing Graham around McGrady's Irish Pub and the Shell gas station on Preston Ave.
The first video showed Hannah walking outside of McGrady's at 12:52 Saturday morning. She walks around the porch of the pub, stopping near the entrance.
A second video shows her minutes later running past the Shell on Preston toward Downtown Mall.
Chief Longo said the troubling thing in the video of McGradys is that so many people are standing outside of the pub, yet none of then have come forward.
Longo said they believe one person spoke to her outside of McGradys and investigators really would like to speak to that person just to know what Hannah said to them.
Anyone with information on her disappearance asked to call Charlottesville Police at 434 295 3851.











3 Win Medicine Nobel for Discovering Brain's GPS 












The comments sections of Newsplex.com are designed for thoughtful, intelligent conversation and debate. We want to hear from our viewers, but we ask that you follow our rules for commenting. E-mail is required to comment on a story, but it will not be displayed with your comment. For complete rules, CLICK HERE. The Newsplex reserves the right to not post or to remove any comment.



Please enable JavaScript to view the powered by Disqus.
powered by Disqus



















































		Most Read Stories			



Officers Put In 2,400 Search Hours during Weekend Search for Hannah Graham
Historic Estate In Virginia To Be Sold At Auction
Searchers Increase Personnel to Search for Missing Teen
Local Entrepreneur Turns Passion into Profit
Teachers Feeling Stress
Police Using New Tactic to Issue Texting While Driving Tickets
Supreme Court Rejects Appeals in Gay Marriage Cases
Dozens of Girls Donate Their Ponytails wit Wigs for Warriors













Tweets from @CBS19/newsplex-accounts




Today's Events
Today's community events.
Monday October 6



Fall Revival
Sleepout for the Homeless
Colonnade Club Cornerstone Celebration
UVA Hosted: Baby Basics Moms Club

Click Here to Submit and View Events









































The Charlottesville Newsplex
999 2nd Street S.E.
Charlottesville, VA 22902
434.242.1919 – Main
434.220.7522 - Newsroom

 - Copyright © 2002-2014 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability   275447951 - newsplex.com/a?a=275447951 					





Website Policy
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy/YOUR CALIFORNIA PRIVACY RIGHTS
Advertising
EEO Statement
Public Inspection File






×
Online Public Information File


Click Here to access the online Public Inspection File
Viewers with disabilities can get assistance accessing this station's FCC Public Inspection File by contacting the station with the information listed below. Questions or concerns relating to the accessibility of the FCC's online public file system should be directed to the FCC at 888-225-5322, 888-835-5322 (TTY), or fccinfo@fcc.gov.

Public File Liaison:
Emily Hall - 434-242-1919 Ext. 137

Station Contact Info:
The Charlottesville Newsplex999 2nd Street S.E.Charlottesville, VA 22902434.242.1919 – Main434.220.7522 - Newsroom


Close























