Police arrest Bowie murder suspect with tattoo-laden face | WJLA.com 
Police arrest Bowie murder suspect with tattoo-laden face | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






CRIME
Police arrest Bowie murder suspect with tattoo-laden face

By Kevin Lewis, ABC 7 News, Jeannette Reyes

			September 30, 2014 - 10:37 pm Updated: October 2, 2014 - 01:11 pm
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



BOWIE, Md. (WJLA) - Prince George's County Police have arrested a man they say shot and killed a father trying to protect his teenage son.
Continue reading





Shooting suspect Deon Warren (Photo: PGPD)






The scene outside a Bowie swim club where a father was shot Tuesday. (WJLA)



Around 5:30 p.m. Tuesday, Mitchell White, 39, of Bowie, drove into the parking lot at the Belair Swim & Racquet Club on Midwood Lane, next to Bowie High School. White reportedly observed his son fighting with another young man. While White attempted to break up the physical altercation, police say a fourth man pulled out a handgun and shot him once in the "upper body." The 39-year-old died on the blacktop.
"It was a very challenging scene," Capt. Jimmy Simms with Prince George's County Police said. "You've got a person who's been shot, who's laying in a parking lot, [and] you've got 15 to 20 individuals. You've got some who are running, some who are leaving."
Homicide detectives pulled an all-nighter Tuesday, interviewing eye-witnesses and examining key evidence. By Wednesday afternoon, police presented members of the media with an over-sized glossy mugshot of the man they say pulled the trigger: Deon Warren, 19, of Upper Marlboro.
Warren was believed to be hiding out in the D.C. area. Court records obtained by ABC 7 News reveal the 19-year-old had been living with his parents in a townhome along the 8800 block of East Grove in Upper Marlboro. A black Lexus sedan and Dodge SUV were parked in the driveway Wednesday evening and voices could be heard inside, but no one answered knocks at the door seeking comment.
"Wow," Warren's next-door neighbor David Edwards exclaimed. "That just goes to tell you there are some crazy people around."
According to the Maryland Case Search online database, police cited Warren for marijuana possession in December 2013 and May 2014. Detectives say the teenager also has a juvenile record, but that information is not available for public review.
V. Watkins lives across the street from Warren. She was stunned to learn about the charge of First Degree Murder filed against the 19-year-old.
"In my day, we didn't have handguns. If we had a dispute, it was a fistfight and that was it," Watkins stated. "I will be on the lookout for him [Warren]."
And that may prove to be easy, as Warren's face is splattered with tattoos, including a black crescent moon and five-pointed star inked on his upper right cheek.
"All them tattoos, that's kind of crazy. I wouldn't have myself marked up like that, it's a dead giveaway," Watkins added.
On Wednesday evening, a Prince George's County Police officer could be seen snapping photos of vehicle license plates in Warren's driveway. That same officer later staked-out the home.
In victim Mitchell White's Bowie neighborhood, was a much different scene. Neighbor Janet Robbins mourned the death of a man she'd often waive to while walking her dog.
"It's just a sad situation. He was doing what any father would do. You love your kids, so you do whatever you can to protect [them]," Robbins concluded.
Investigators say the initial fight between Mitchell White's son and the other teen boy may have been spurred by an argument last week. However, it is not connected to the weekend brawl at Six Flags America in Upper Marlboro.
If you know of Warren's whereabouts, call the Prince George's County Police Homicide Unit at 301-772-4925. Tipsters in the case wishing to remain anonymous can call Crime Solvers at 1-866-411-TIPS (8477), text "PGPD plus your message" to CRIMES (274637) on your cell phone, or submit a tip online.


Read More:
Maryland, 
Bowie, 
Shooting, 
Belair Swim And Racket Club, 
Fatal Shooting, 
Prince George's County, 
Bowie High, 
Maryland Crime, 
NewsChannel 8








Recommended For You










More in "Crime"



Bowie murder suspect captured following manhunt



Missing Lyon sisters case: New details expected to be announced at 3 p.m.



Missing-student suspect Jesse Matthew doesn't appear in court; police hold evidence












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Joe Madden, D.C. bartender, missing since Monday









What is Ebola? How does it spread? Who is at risk?
















Washington Nationals to give away free NLDS tickets with Jayson Werth gnome scavenger hunt









Missing Lyon sisters case: New details expected to be announced at 3 p.m.









Police: Man killed his boss' wife at Potomac home, then self in car over workplace theft accusation









Police arrest Bowie murder suspect with tattoo-laden face









Missing-student suspect Jesse Matthew doesn't appear in court; police hold evidence





























News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

