Police and family look for missing Utah woman   - NY Daily News 

Police and family look for missing Utah woman   - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             Police and family look for missing Utah woman   Kayelyn Louder, 30, left behind her cellphone, keys and pet dog when she was last seen walking out of her condo into the pouring rain on September 27. Her family has been hanging up flyers throughout the city Murray, looking for information about her disappearance.  BY   Michael Walsh     NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Published: Monday, October 6, 2014, 10:50 AM Updated: Monday, October 6, 2014, 12:04 PM  A A A        Share this URL                  Kayelyn Louder via Facebook Kayelyn Louder, 30, went missing late last month after walking out of her condominium in Murray during a rainstorm.    Kayelyn Louder via Facebook Kayelyn Louder’s family has been hanging up flyers throughout the area letting people know about her disappearance.    Kayelyn Louder via Facebook Kayelyn Louder’s father says she does not have a history of abnormal behavior but has struggled a bit with depression recently.    Kayelyn Louder via Facebook Her family started a Facebook page to help aid in the search.    Previous Next        Enlarge   
	Utah police are looking for a 30-year-old woman who mysteriously went missing late last month.

	Kayelyn (Kiki) Louder, of Murray, was last seen on surveillance video leaving her condominium on Sept. 27 in a tank top and shorts during a rainstorm, police said.

	“We hope that getting her face and information out there might help. That someone who has seen her might be able to let us know,” Sgt. Mike Obrey of the Murray Police Department told the Daily News.

	Authorities were alerted on Wednesday.

	"She left with just herself ... and it was pouring rain," her father, Jesse Louder, told local station KSL.

	Louder, who typically checks in with her mother every day, has not shown strange behavior in the past but has suffered "a little bit of depression" because of her recent struggle to find steady employment.

	"She's been in and out of jobs for the last year, so it's been a little tough for her," her father added.

	Louder left behind her cellphone, house and car keys, pocketbook and pet dog, the NBC affiliate reported.    Kayelyn Louder via Facebook Kayelyn Louder was described as 5-foot-8 and 130 pounds.   

	This has led the family to believe she did not intend to leave for a long time.

	"The only thing we can think is she ran out to maybe meet somebody or ran to another person's condo," her sister, Madi Rodriguez, told KSTU, "but when she would leave she would be gone for maybe an hour or so and she would be very anxious to get back to her dog."

	Detectives from the Murray Police Department are leading the investigation into her disappearance.

	Her family has been posting flyers with pictures of Louder throughout their neighborhood. They also launched a Facebook page to aid in the search.

	“We do not have any solid leads but we are investigating every one. We appreciate any tips or leads that can help,” Obrey said.

	Louder was described as a white female with brown hair and brown eyes, who stands 5-foot-8 and weighs 130 pounds.

	Anyone with information related to the case is asked to call the Murray Police Department at 801-840-4000 or the We Help the Missing tip line at 866-660- 4025.

mwalsh@nydailynews.com        


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      7   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     8   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     9   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary     10   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog                   BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      