Police searching for suspect accused of robbing University of Utah bookstore  | fox13now.com  
Police searching for suspect accused of robbing University of Utah bookstore  | fox13now.com






GoSearch







 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






fox13now.com

 Menu

News
On-Air
Good Day Utah
Traffic
Contests
Contact
Cars
Events




Weather 

65°







65°


Low 61°
High 74°





Tue


					55°  76°
					


Wed


					53°  75°
					


Thu


					51°  73°
					


See complete forecast




 







 WATCH LIVE: Utah Pride Center speaking on same-sex marriage at noon						








 







Police searching for suspect accused of robbing University of Utah bookstore

Posted 1:03 pm, July 29, 2014, by Ashton Edwards, Updated at 01:20pm, July 29, 2014 

FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedInGoogleEmail 


SALT LAKE CITY – Authorities are searching for a suspect accused of robbing a University of Utah bookstore Tuesday.
University officials said the suspect allegedly approached a cashier at the Eccles Health Sciences Education Building bookstore near 26 S. and 2000 E. at about 11:30 a.m.
According to the University of Utah, a male suspect claimed he had a gun in his bag and told the clerk to give him the money in the register.
The cashier did and the suspect ran from the scene.


If you have information that may be of assistance in solving this crime, contact #UofU Campus Police immediately by calling 801-585-2677.
— University of Utah (@UUtah) July 29, 2014

Officials said the suspect is a white male in his 20s or 30s with short, reddish-brown hair.
University officials said the suspect is about 5’9″ with a slender build.
He was last seen wearing a baggy t-shirt with a tear on the right shoulder, brown jeans and white tennis shoes.


Suspect: white, 20-30, short reddish-brwn hair, skinny, 5’9” in baggy t-shirt, brwn skinny jeans, white tennis shoes. pic.twitter.com/vzvFiLgzkY
— University of Utah (@UUtah) July 29, 2014

If you have any information in this case, the University of Utah campus police said they would like to speak with you.
You can call them at (801) 585-2677.



Filed in: News Topics: crime, robbery, university of utah 











 






Nominate Your Cool School
Big Budah visits a Cool School each week!







 

 


Popular



Police in Salt Lake City hiring ‘beer decoys’, purveyors of booze react



Police, family searching for missing woman from Murray



Father in custody after K9 helps locate missing, endangered child in Tooele



After years of struggling with infertility, Utah couple has baby shower for quadruplets







 


Latest News



Man in custody after kidnapping in SLC, police say



Hilarious Video: Eyes drawn on bike helmet won’t deter magpies



Police: Woman wearing green face paint robbed motel



Water main break floods homes, closes streets in West Jordan















News

Police arrest rifle theft suspect after he crashed getaway bicycle into power pole


News

Provo authorities search for suspect accused of trying to abduct child


News

FBI asking help identifying Clinton bank robbery suspect


News

Authorities searching for armed suspect in Salt Lake City gas station robbery


News

Fourth suspect arrested after stabbing that injured two in Magna



 


News

Audio of 911 call from groping incident at USU released


News

Utah police, troopers search for suspect in drive-by shooting overnight


News

Police search for suspect accused of shooting after Drake vs. Lil Wayne concert


News

Police capture man suspected in several robberies


News

Officer on paid leave after shooting suspect in West Jordan, man in serious condition



 


News

Police: Meth smoking man flees from officer after using bat to assault woman


News

Police search for armed suspect accused of holding up Salt Lake convenience store


News

Police: 4 teens accused of breaking into Logan High tied to other burglaries






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weatherwatch App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weatherwatch App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		5020 Amelia Earhart Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84116  •
		Copyright © 2014, KSTU		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “fox13now.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,300 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com










Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















