'We are all really aching for Hannah's return': 2,000 volunteers hunt for missing UVA student as police lack evidence to detain person of interest - NY Daily News 

'We are all really aching for Hannah's return': 2,000 volunteers hunt for missing UVA student as police lack evidence to detain person of interest - NY Daily News


   
  
  
 
 














 DAILY NEWS   New York   News   Politics  Sports   Entertainment   Opinion   Living   Autos        Search          U.S     World     Crime     The Week     News Pics     Blogs             'We are all really aching for Hannah's return': 2,000 volunteers hunt for missing UVA student as police lack evidence to detain person of interest A week after University of Virginia sophomore Hannah Graham disappeared in downtown Charlottesville, about 2,000 volunteers began an intense two-day search for the 18-year-old. Police questioned a person of interest who left a bar with Graham on the night she vanished but said they don't have a reason to call him a suspect.  BY   Meg Wagner   NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Saturday, September 20, 2014, 12:42 PM  A A A        Share this URL                Ryan M. Kelly/AP A volunteer search crew plans their search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham Thursday. More than 2,000 voluntees will help with the hunt over the weekend.    
	Thousands of volunteers will spend their weekend hunting for any trace of a missing University of Virginia student.

	The Virginia Department of Emergency Management estimated 2,000 people will help in the weekend-long hunt for 18-year-old Hannah Graham, who vanished on Sept. 13 after a night of partying in downtown Charlottesville.

	The first crews started their search shift at 8 a.m. Saturday, and more waves of teams will continue throughout the day and into Sunday, NBC29 reported.

	The search comes a day after police identified — but did not detain — a person of interest who left a bar with Graham on the night she vanished.       Facebook Hannah Elizabeth Graham, an 18-year-old girl from University of Virginia, has been reported missing under what appear to be suspicious circumstances, prompting an outpouring of concern in the communit. Enlarge      Facebook Hannah Elizabeth Graham, an 18-year-old girl from University of Virginia, has been reported missing under what appear to be suspicious circumstances, prompting an outpouring of concern in the communit. Enlarge  
	The sophomore has been missing since Sept. 13.
  

	Officials have not labeled the man a suspect and said they lack any evidence to arrest him. However, they searched his house and car Friday for more information about the missing sophomore.

	Police said surveillance video caught the 32-year-old man putting his arm around Graham outside of a downtown mall around 1 a.m. on Sept 13.

	The two went to a nearby restaurant where the man bought alcohol, but the two left just a few minutes later in the man's burnt orange 1998 Chrysler Coupe, police said.    Andrew Shurtleff/AP A student-led Thursday vigil begged for the 18-year-old's safe return. 'As a community we are all really aching for Hannah's return,' one of her classmates said.   

	"I cannot answer if Hannah went willingly into the car," Police Chief Timothy Longo said at a Friday press conference.

	Police did not name the man, but described him as a 6-foot-2, 270-pound black man with dreadlocks, the Cavalier Daily reported.

	Earlier this week, police spoke to another man seen in the surveillance video who claimed he followed Graham because he was worried about her safety and wanted to help.      Charlottesville Police Department Police released surveillance pictures of Hannah Elizabeth Graham walking around her apartmnet complex just hours before she vanished.    nbc washington Video from a downtown mall showed the 18-year-old with a dreadlocked man later in the night.    Previous Next      Enlarge  

	She appeared drunk and upset, he said, but he stopped trailing her when she ran into another man — whom she appeared to know — and left with him.

	It's not clear if that other man is the same person police have identified as a person of interest.

	Earlier in the night, a hallway surveillance camera caught Graham walking around her off-campus apartment complex wearing a gold crop-top and black pants.    Andrew Shurtleff /AP Charlottesville Chief of Police Tim Longo said he's talking to a person of interest, but doesn't have any evidence to arrest him.   

	Police said she hopped between a few locations — a restaurant for dinner with friends and a second apartment building for a party — before she got lost downtown around 12:15 a.m.

	Videos from an Irish pub and a gas station showed her wandering around downtown just before the 1 a.m. video showed her with the dreadlocked man.

	The weekend hunt for Graham will cover the downtown area as well as other parts of Charlottesville that have not been thoroughly searched. Rescuers started with the university campus Saturday morning.

	"The mood is a very tense hopefulness. We're all really trying to find Hannah and search for Hannah, but we're also starting to miss Hannah very deeply," Abraham Axler, the university's class of 2017 president, told the TV station. "As a community we are all really aching for Hannah's return."    Related Stories  'Major break' in hunt for UVA student Hannah Graham: cops       Mom of slain Va. student sees similarities in missing Hannah Graham case       Man followed missing UVA student on night she vanished: video       Police release photos of missing UVA student          


   

    








    
 
   Comments  Post A Comment [ Discussion Guidelines]  To Post Comments Sign In               Editor's Picks      Illinois man charged with trying to join ISIS overseas: FBI       A suburban Chicago man was charged Monday with attempting to travel overseas to join the Islamic State.       Florida Gators QB under investigation for sexual assault      Florida freshman quarterback Treon Harris has been suspended while he is being investigated for sexual assault.       British twin stabbed brother to death on New Year’s Eve, busted drinking at party later       A British man stabbed his twin to death in a drunken rage on New Year's Eve and then fled to a party, where he continued drinking and partying until police picked him up, prosecutors said.       NBA extends TV deals with ESPN and TNT       The NBA has extended its television deals with ESPN and TNT for nine years. The league announced Monday that the new contracts will run through the 2024-25 season.       Ebola in the U.S.: Timeline      It's been a chaotic week since Thomas Duncan was isolated at a Dallas hospital and later confirmed as having Ebola, making him the first American to be diagnosed on U.S. soil.       American Ebola patient lands in Nebraska for treatment as Dallas patient fights for life       An American journalist diagnosed with Ebola while working in Liberia likely contracted the disease while spray-washing a car owned by someone who died of the lethal virus, his parents said Monday.
       Fordham student enters not-responsible plea for murder of mom      The Fordham University student who beat his mother to death during an epileptic episode pleaded not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect on Monday.       Supreme Court rejects gay marriage appeals from five states      The Supreme Court cleared the way Monday for an immediate expansion of same-sex marriage by unexpectedly and tersely turning away appeals from five states seeking to prohibit gay and lesbian unions.       Saks Fifth Avenue employees busted in identity theft ring      It was an inside job. Local and federal authorities broke up an identity theft ring made up of Saks Fifth Avenue employees who allegedly stole customer information and used that to buy $400,000 worth of designer bags and shoes that were resold on the black market.       SEE IT: U. of Alabama professors read online critiques from students      Professors at the University of Alabama read some nice and not so nice comments posted on the website ratemyproessors.com.       Woman, 76, jumps into NYC subway's path      A 76-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping in front of an oncoming B train in Midtown Manhattan on Monday, cops said.       Lampard won't rule out loan extension with Manchester City      Training camp is less than four months away for MLS, and expansion club NYCFC may lose a star for a critical stretch of team-building.       Islamic State raises flag over key city in Syria near Turkish border       ISIS raised their black flag of terror over a building in a Syrian city near the Turkish border that refuses to fall to terrorists without a fight.       Review: Samsung Galaxy Alpha      Samsung's first phone built with a metal body gives a sturdy feel, but with that, the phone loses its waterproof qualities. It's a solid offering from the tech company, but it's not an amazing leap forward.        Biogenesis founder Bosch tests positive for cocaine       A judge in South Florida sent Anthony Bosch to jail on Monday because the Biogenesis founder had recently tested positive for cocaine.        Cops tase Dolphins player three times during arrest      Miami Dolphins reserve defensive lineman Derrick Shelby was suspended indefinitely in the wake of his arrest on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and trespassing at a nightclub.       Queen Elizabeth dubs Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight            Queen Elizabeth has made ex-Mayor Michael Bloomberg an honorary knight — but don’t call him “Sir Mike.”       Ex-FBI head's NFL investigation to be completed by November: report      The NFL's investigation of its own handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence scandal will be complete before November, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter.       SEE IT: Paralyzed bride walks down the aisle      A paralyzed bride who has been in a wheelchair for more than six years achieved her dream of walking down the aisle.       Don't make Tom Brady angry: Myers' 10 things from Week 5      The Patriots QB put on a vintage Brady performance against the Bengals to quiet the end-of-an-era talk in New England for a while.                   Most Popular      Most Read   Most Shared      1   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     2   'Troll’ accused of targeting Madeleine McCann’s parents found dead     3   As Thomas Duncan fights for his life, fear of Ebola in U.S. grows     4   Homeless man who has possible contact with Ebola patient found     5   'BTK' serial killer helping crime author on book     6   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     7   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      8   Lurid new details emerge in three-way between Louisiana teachers, student     9   Wash. state family sues Comcast for faulty home alarm     10   ISIS smitten with ‘Blonde Tattooed Girl from Texas’          1   N.C. teen wakes up from dental surgery asking for Beyoncé      2   Convicted cop killer addresses college grads from jail     3   Marine veteran, dad of 3 jumped, beaten in parking lot after L.A. Angels game     4   Plant shoots Seattle woman in eye with poisonous sap     5   Woman ends up in hospital after using potato as contraception     6   Florida cat receives life-saving blood transfusion from dog       7   EXCLUSIVE: Astorino donor in 'pro-Israeli' bias scandal      8   Rich Americans donating less: analysis     9   Dog named 'Lazarus' survives euthanasia attempt     10   Obamas share rare date night for 22nd anniversary                 BEST CITY APPIN THE WORLD!         

App Store
Android
   FREE          
News Video


   


      









Media Kit
Home Delivery
Newsletters
Businesses
Place an Ad
About our Ads
Contact Us
Careers
FAQ's
Feeds
Site Map




            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and
            Privacy Policy. 
           
© Copyright 2014 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.


      