Richmond billboards aid in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com  
Richmond billboards aid in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Richmond billboards aid in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham

Posted 6:08 pm, September 22, 2014, by Alix Bryan 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 



 
RICHMOND, Va. — The search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Elizabeth Graham has expanded outside of the Charlottesville area.
Her photo now appears on digital billboards in Virginia, along with a toll-free number for tips from the public.
Once alerted by request from the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC), the Outdoor Advertising Association of America (OAAA) activated an endangered missing persons alert on 12 donated full-color digital billboards in Fredericksburg, Richmond, Hampton, Newport News, Colonial Heights and Hopewell.
Graham, 18,  was reported missing the afternoon of September 14. She has not been seen or heard from since early Sept. 13.
Anyone with information regarding Graham’s whereabouts should call (434) 295-3851 or 1-800-THE-LOST.
Police have issued a wanted poster and released the photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr.
Matthew, 32, is wanted for misdemeanor reckless driving, however Charlottesville Police have called him a Person of Interest in Graham’s disappearance.
All surveillance videos in this case can be seen here. All reports filed on this case can be found here.
 


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham, Local, Richmond 








			2 comments		




 

B Ruddy

I will say what some others may think but be hesitant to say out of understandable concern, deference and sensitivity to M/M Graham:  while it’s laudable that there are now 12 large highway billboards across Virginia with Hannah’s face and MP poster, I fear it will do no good.
I fear that Hannah never made it out of the Albe./CV community.
Those same billboards may have been put to better use by displaying JM’s wanted poster.  He has no doubt fled the Albe./CV area but could well have been–or still be–spotted somewhere in VA.  At the very least his sister’s vehicle described in the wanted poster may be spotted.
In suggesting the above I appreciate that: a) the sponsor of the billboards (NCMEC/OAAA) focuses on MPs, not the POIs/wanteds; and b) there may be later, potential legal challenges if/when early focus is on a POI (read:  not “suspect”).




							September 22, 2014 at 7:24 pm						

Reply
Report comment







 

Janet Ticklebottom

Wait bro!  Let me get my glasses……. this looks like it’s going to take a while to read. Yor comment that is.




							September 22, 2014 at 8:52 pm						

Reply
Report comment








Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








 






 Antenna TV
Check out classic TV shows and movies on 6.2. Comcast 207|Verizon 479  







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration



















 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts
































Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


















