Police seek person of interest in Hannah Graham case - Roanoke Times: Virginia  
Police seek person of interest in Hannah Graham case - Roanoke Times: Virginia









            Close
        















Contests


Customer Care


Subscribe


Advertise


Submit News


eTimes






Police seek person of interest in Hannah Graham case - Roanoke Times: Virginia













70°
Few Clouds




Roanoke Times




News



Crime


Politics


Education


Nation


World 


Blogs


Columns


Dan casey


Archives

 





                  RECENT STORIES
                
        









					    
							Pulaski County's Gavin Hanks inspired by biggest fan: his older brother
						




						posted: October 05
						











					    
							VML events prompt street closings in downtown Roanoke today
						




						posted: October 06
						























                  MORE
                
        






					    
							In wake of Supreme Court appeals denial, gay marriages can begin today in Virginia
						








					    
							Christiansburg man dies in crash in southwestern Montana
						








					    
							Roanoke County posts superintendent job
						








					    
							Few Va. schools participate in new meal program
						








					    
							Virginia Tech takes new approach to diversity
						








					    
							10 things you may not have known about the Senate candidates
						
















 
Local



Blacksburg


Christiansburg


Roanoke


Roanoke County


Salem


Smith Mountain Lake


Franklin County


Botetourt County


Bedford County


Radford


Floyd CountY


Pulaski County


Giles County

 





                  RECENT STORIES
                
        









					    
							Pulaski County's Gavin Hanks inspired by biggest fan: his older brother
						




						posted: October 05
						











					    
							VML events prompt street closings in downtown Roanoke today
						




						posted: October 06
						












COMMUNITY BLOGS































                  MORE
                
        






					    
							Christiansburg man dies in crash in southwestern Montana
						








					    
							Roanoke County posts superintendent job
						








					    
							Roanoke Ruckus Alley Cat race gives riders fun challenges
						








					    
							Pro-life supporters line downtown Bedford for silent vigil
						








					    
							Blacksburg Startup Weekend fosters ideas, both good and bad
						








					    
							Huckleberry bridge over Peppers Ferry waits for final ramp
						
















 
Sports



Colleges


Aaron McFarling 


High Schools


Redskins


Pulaski Mariners


Salem Red Sox


Outdoors


Nascar


Golf


Andy Bitter


Blogs


Columns

 





                  RECENT STORIES
                
        









					    
							Pulaski County's Gavin Hanks inspired by biggest fan: his older brother
						




						posted: October 05
						














					    
							Hokies continue to dig deep into tailback depth chart
						




						posted: October 05
						























                  MORE
                
        






					    
							Cousins, Wilson finding their way as NFL quarterbacks
						








					    
							Hokies sweep Allegheny Amateur
						








					    
							Lee Pulliam wins Late Model Stock Car's 'Super Bowl' in final lap at Martinsville
						








					    
							Logan Thomas throws his first NFL TD, but Cards fall 41-20
						








					    
							Logano wins at Kansas to advance in title race
						








					    
							UVa wins ground-game battle with Pittsburgh
						
















 
Business



News


Blogs


Columns


Names & Changes

 





                  RECENT STORIES
                
        









					    
							Virginia turns to hops as potential cash crop
						




						posted: October 05
						











					    
							Upcoming events for the week of Oct. 5, 2014
						




						posted: October 05
						















Business Directory















                  MORE
                
        






					    
							Upcoming events for the week of Oct. 5, 2014
						








					    
							Real estate transfers
						








					    
							Names and changes: Business recognitions and promotions for week of Oct. 5, 2014
						








					    
							Color of Money: Fending off fraudsters
						








					    
							Retail Roundup: New outdoor outfitter coming to Wasena
						








					    
							One Question with Teresa Martin
						
















 
Weather



Current Conditions


Kevin Myatt

 





                  RECENT BLOG POSTS
                
        









					    
							Several rounds of rain possible over the next week
						




						posted: October 06
						














					    
							Frost warnings, freeze advisories issued west of Roanoke
						




						posted: October 04
						























                  RECENT COLUMNS
                
        






					    
							Weather Journal: September, fall often swings to wet, dry extremes
						








					    
							Weather Journal: The last great Roanoke River flood was 10 years ago
						








					    
							Weather Journal: Normal temperatures are not the norm
						








					    
							Weather Journal: Watch 2 patches of Pacific water for winter forecast
						








					    
							Frances kicked off triple tropical trouble 10 years ago
						








					    
							Weather Journal: Be discerning about online weather discussion
						
















 
A&E



> Best of: vote now


Arts


Books


Movies


Music


TV


Puzzles


Comics


Horoscopes


Events Calendar


Blogs


Columns

 











					    
							Video - Cassadee Pope, "Everybody Sings," live at Sidewinders
						




						posted: October 06
						











					    
							Monday open book stuff
						




						posted: October 06
						


























					    
							The 52 books a year challenge
						








					    
							Roanoke featured in PBS green living series
						








					    
							RSO masterfully opens Masterworks season
						








					    
							Book review: Philippa Gregory nails noblewoman's story of Tudor England
						
















 
Life



> Best Of: Vote Now


Family


Food


Home/Garden


Shopping


Travel


Health


Celebrations


Calendar


Blogs


Columns


Submit Announcements

 











					    
							Chestnuts, apple butter and other fall treasures
						




						posted: October 06
						














					    
							Bourbon all around
						




						posted: October 06
						


























					    
							Roanoke featured in PBS green living series
						








					    
							Cornershot: Ready to teach
						








					    
							Dadline: Spank or spare?
						








					    
							A walker's paradise
						
















 
Opinion



Letters


Editorials


Commentary

 











					    
							Our view: What not to expect in the debates
						




						posted: October 06
						











					    
							Paine: Arm the Kurds, not Syrians
						




						posted: October 06
						


























					    
							Haldiman: CHIP changes child health outcomes
						








					    
							Pitts: You almost feel sorry for Sean Groubert
						








					    
							Letter:Columnist Starshine Roshell's 'primal scream' was a powerful prayer
						








					    
							Letters: Big 'Fireball' splash was the wrong message for young people
						
















 
Video
 
Photo



Paparazzi


Buy a photo

 



















 
Obituaries



Memoriams


Card of thanks

 



















 
Classifieds



FindIt


Marketplace


Notices


Yard Sales


Yard Sale Map


Place An Ad


Daily Deal

 



















 
Jobs



Create Account


Find A Job


Post A Job

 



















 
Homes



Homes For Sale


Open Houses


For Rent

 



















 
Cars




























Home


News



Virginia





Police seek person of interest in Hannah Graham case

StoryComments 
Image (2)


        Print
    


            Create a hardcopy of this page
        


        Font Size:
    


            Default font size
        



            Larger font size
        


























Previous
Next






rtd-hannahgraham-091914







The (Charlottesville) Daily Progress

Search for Hannah Graham
Police search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham in the area of Charlottesville where she was last seen.



 









Related Stories

Related: As another family waits for news of a missing daughter, Gil Harrington speaks of 'path through the anguish'
Related: Search for missing UVa student Hannah Graham intensifies










        Posted: Thursday, September 18, 2014 8:11 am
         | 
        

                Updated: 4:44 pm, Thu Sep 18, 2014.
            



Police seek person of interest in Hannah Graham case
By Dean Seal
The (Charlottesville) Daily Progress
roanoke.com




Updated at 4:30 p.m.
The city of Charlottesville, joined by the university as well as local businesses and individuals, are offering $50,000 for any information that will shed light on the disappearance of Hannah Graham.
Police have also now released a description of the man seen in the video surveillance footage taken from the downtown mall that was last seen with his arm around Graham the night she disappeared.
A witness, who was also seen in the surveillance film walking in front of and later behind Graham, described the man as black, 5 feet and 10 to 11 inches tall, weighing between between 250 and 285 pounds, with a close shaved head, a goatee and a slight “beer belly.” The witness guessed that he was in either his late 20’s or early 30’s, and he was wearing black jeans and a white T-shirt when he was seen with Graham at the 500 blocks of East Main Street on the Downtown Mall.
Police said he is a person of interest and asks the public to call the tip line at 434-295-3851 if he is seen.

Updated at 1:30 p.m.
Efforts by city police to obtain more surveillance video from businesses on the Downtown Mall have not turned up any new leads in the investigation of Hannah Graham’s disappearance, investigators said Thursday.
Most businesses either do not have surveillance equipment or their equipment is internal, according to police Capt. Gary Pleasants.
As authorities continue investigating, students at the University of Virginia are planning a candlelight vigil Thursday night, dubbed “Bring Hannah Home.”
“We will join to demonstrate our ongoing support for Hannah’s search and loved ones,” said a press release sent out to by the UVa Student Council. “We will join to celebrate the unyielding hope that Hannah will come back to us.”
During the event, held at 9 p.m. at the McIntire Amphitheater, students will perform some of Graham’s favorite music, her favorite candy will be served, and memories of Graham will be shared.

The search for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham will likely continue for several days, officials say.
Albemarle County Sheriff J.E. "Chip" Harding said the search command center has been moved to the Carver Recreation Center in downtown Charlottesville to provide a more comfortable location for a search likely to last for a while.
"It looks like it's going to go for a few more days and we wanted to have a more permanent location with more room," Harding said. "It also allows us a center from which to work should we need to send search teams to more remote areas."
Search teams from the Virginia Department of Emergency Management hit the city streets again this morning looking for Graham, Harding said.
"They met with investigators to look at probable areas to be searched based on what information investigators found overnight," Harding said. "Charlottesville is 10 square miles and Albemarle County is 723 square miles and it's important to determine what areas to look at."
Harding said his volunteer search and rescue team is helping out state search teams, but has surrendered the lead in the search.
"We've played a pretty small role overall in this," he said. "We can't maintain a long-term search because we're volunteers and we need to continue working. We help out when we can."
Efforts by city police to obtain more surveillance video from businesses on the Downtown Mall have not turned up any new leads in the investigation of Hannah Graham’s disappearance, investigators said Thursday.
Most businesses either do not have surveillance equipment or their equipment is internal, according to police Capt. Gary Pleasants.
A man seen in surveillance video video following a missing University of Virginia student on the Downtown Mall early Saturday told police late Wednesday that Hannah Graham "looked to be somewhat physically distressed" and that he wanted to make sure she was safe. He also told police that he saw another man speak with Graham.
The man in the video, who is white, came to the police department at 10:15 p.m. Wednesday, the agency said in a news release. In addition to describing his own actions, he told officers that soon after he followed Graham a black male came up to her and put his around around her and stopped her. The two began speaking, the man told police.

"It appeared to the witness that the black male was either known to Ms. Graham or was trying to help her," police said. "The witness then walked away and he said that Ms. Graham and the black male were still standing and talking when he left. The black male is not shown in either of these videos."


Police said the white man, explaining his actions, told police Graham "looked to be somewhat physically distressed and he wanted to make sure she got safely to wherever she was going."


The man was not identified by police.


The video was recorded from Sal's Pizza at 1:06 a.m. and from Tuel's Jewelers at 1:08 a.m., police said.

The search for Hannah Graham continues, four days after the second-year student went missing.
Police spent much of Wednesday scouring the mall and working to gather more video, capped in the afternoon with a plea for help from city Police Chief Timothy Longo, who asked that anyone who might have seen her contact a tip line set up and manned by the FBI.
“I’d be very disturbed that someone on this Downtown Mall did not see that young lady, or has not called the police to report [that they did],” Longo said. “I’m hoping that they’re hearing my words and seeing my frustration, hearing the pain that this family is experiencing, pick up the phone and tell us something, regardless of how insignificant you think it might be.”
Two new videos emerged late Wednesday showing Graham, 18, on the Downtown Mall after 1 a.m. Saturday with two people walking nearby.
Police said she met friends for dinner Friday evening at a restaurant on The Corner. According to friends, police said, she left alone about 11 p.m. and proceeded to at least two other locations — Camden Plaza apartments and a house party near 14th Street Northwest — a short distance away. Police said they believe Graham lost her bearings after leaving the second location, heading north on 10th Street Northwest.
She was seen on video surveillance near McGrady’s Pub on Grady Avenue walking west past the bar at 12:43 a.m. A few minutes later, she was seen in video walking to the door of the bar before continuing east on Preston Avenue. Police said she never entered the bar. Police are seeking to speak with the pub’s doorman. Management at McGrady’s Pub has been advised by police not to comment.
A second surveillance video shows Graham walking past a Shell station on Preston Avenue at 12:55 a.m., first running and then slowing to a stop. Police said it did not seem that she was followed at that time.
Minutes later, an eyewitness sitting in her car spotted Graham walking south from Market Street toward the Downtown Mall.
Late Wednesday night, Capt. Gary Pleasants of Charlottesville police said new video surveillance, time stamped at 1:06 a.m. Saturday, shows a white male walking down the 200 block of East Main Street, who “glances briefly over his shoulder, then steps into a doorway and stops.” Moments later, Graham is seen walking by the same doorway, and the white male steps out and follows her.
In a second video, filmed two minutes later in the 300 block of East Main Street, Graham appears to be accompanied by someone, who may be male or female, and the same white male is following close behind.
No additional information was gleaned from the new footage Wednesday night.
Longo said police contacted other local merchants who have surveillance equipment and asked them to hold the tapes so they could be reviewed. He said there are no city surveillance cameras on the Downtown Mall, something Longo said he has long sought from the city council.
Text messages sent about 1:20 a.m. to friends from Graham’s phone said that she was lost near 14th Street Northwest, though police said that because of the direction she was heading, they doubt she was in that location when the texts were sent.
Longo said Graham appeared to have been drinking, based on accounts from people who were at parties she had attended. He said that spoke to her potential vulnerability at the time of her disappearance, Longo said. He lamented that her level of intoxication had become a focal point in some corners.
“Folks have gone very quickly to that issue and have attacked the character of this young lady, and I think unfairly,” the chief said. “I find it unfortunate that people are latching onto that, and speaking poorly of a young lady’s character — an individual they don’t even know.”
Graham’s parents, who have chosen to speak only through police and the University of Virginia, said in a statement they suspected “foul play” and called it “totally out of character” for their daughter not to contact them.
“Hannah is beyond precious to us and we are truly devastated by her disappearance,” the statement said. “We will not rest until we find her, and she comes home.”
Charlottesville police have asked landowners near the Downtown Mall to search their property for traces of Graham.
“I can’t imagine — as a parent, as a husband — I can’t imagine what [Graham’s parents and family] are going through these past couple of days,” Longo said. “This department’s focus is to find their daughter — first and foremost, to find their daughter — and by the grace of God to return her to their care.”
While police continue their search, UVa President Teresa Sullivan issued a statement Wednesday recommending that parents keep in contact with their students and encourage them to seek counseling, if needed.
“If your son or daughter seems to be in distress, do not hesitate to refer them to professional counseling if you believe it would be helpful for them. UVa’s Counseling and Psychological Services department has trained clinicians who can help students manage anxiety or other emotions they may be feeling,” Sullivan wrote.
“You are perhaps the most important resource for your student. Many students will seek advice and reassurance from their families,” Sullivan wrote. “If you become concerned about your student’s resilience or health, please let me, Vice President Pat Lampkin, or [UVa Dean of Students Allen Groves] know of your concerns.”
Sullivan sent a similar message Tuesday to staff and faculty.
“We are encouraging our students to maintain their daily schedules. Having structure in their day will help them in coping with uncertainty, and I hope that those of you who teach and support our students will help them stay on track,” she wrote.
“If students come to you in distress, I know that you will be understanding and listen to them carefully, but you should also not hesitate to refer them to professional counseling if you believe it would be helpful for them.”
Authorities describe Graham as white, 5 feet, 11 inches tall, with a slender build, blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. Anyone with more information is urged to contact the police tip line at 434-295-3851.
Daily Progress staff writer Bryan McKenzie contributed to this report.
Mobile users: click "Full Site" to see more video related to this story.
 


 





More about Hannah Graham

ARTICLE: Charlottesville Chief: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham'
ARTICLE: Hannah Graham's parents beg for information about her
ARTICLE: UVa, localities form safety committee in wake of Graham disappearance
ARTICLE: Matthew hearings in Dec.; Nelson Co. agrees to testing in Alexis Murphy case
ARTICLE: Hannah Graham case prompts Randy Taylor's attorney to seek DNA test

More about Charlottesville

ARTICLE: UVa, localities form safety committee in wake of Graham disappearance
ARTICLE: Search goes on for Hannah Graham
ARTICLE: Hannah Graham search continues as suspect returns
ARTICLE: Man charged with abduction with intent to defile in Hannah Graham case
ARTICLE: Hundreds search for Hannah Graham





            Discuss
        


Print








        Posted in
        Virginia
        
        on 
        
            Thursday, September 18, 2014 8:11 am. 
            
                Updated: 4:44 pm.

         | Tags: 
                    

Hannah Graham,
                    


Charlottesville




Similar Stories

In wake of Supreme Court appeals denial, gay marriages can begin today in Virginia
Few Va. schools participate in new meal program
10 things you may not have known about the Senate candidates
Charlottesville Chief: 'We're going to find Hannah Graham'
Roanoke Ruckus Alley Cat race gives riders fun challenges





Most Read

Authorities exploring whether Hannah Graham case, Campbell Co. homicide linked
Man dead after gunfire involving police in Christiansburg
Drunken driver in fatal Franklin Road crash sentenced to 10 years in prison
Bond hearing for Jesse Matthew Jr. canceled
28 vehicles involved in crashes at fogged Fancy Gap Mountain
















 




Advanced Search










Your browser does not support iframes.













tab 0
tab 1















tab 0
tab 1
tab 2
























Featured Videos














                
                  Featured Jobs
                
                      



Job searchby realmatch






                    Latest obituaries
                


Hendricks, William TillmanWilliam Tillman Hendricks died Saturday morning, October 4, 2014, after a long life of service to God, country, and family. At nineteen, he found the love and joy of his life, Virginia Ellen Harris. For all 69 years, his love for her never waned. Nor did his love for hissons, Bill, Bob, and Joe; or their families. As a father, he was strong and gentle, kind and generous. He warmly welcomed three daughters in law, Mary Lee, Victoria, and Heidi; five granddaughters, Margie, Joanna, Sarah, Ruth, and Mary; and ten great grandchildren, KK, Danny, Zachary, Liam, Andrea, Cristina, Linda, Daniel, Micha, and Alice. Family always brought out the sparkle in his eyes and the broad beam of his smile. At eighteen, he answered his country's call, joined the Air Force, and piloted B-17's in World War II.Thirty years of distinguished service in the Air Force culminated when, as a Colonel, he coordinated all Air Force support to the Army in Viet Nam.But his most important service was to God and church. As he was transferred from base to base, he quickly would find a Baptist church, even in Saigon and France, where he helped start one. His tithe to God always came first. His Bible and the rug where he prayed were worn with use. Many a church member in need answered the door to see Mr. Hendricks glowing with the spirit of God and offering just the right gift, word, or fix-it job. After building with his hands a three-story house, he, never one to stay retired, served as the business manager for Glorieta Baptist Conference Center.His worn Bible said, "If you love me, keep my commandments."He did. A memorial service in celebration of the life of Bill Hendricks will be held at 2 p.m. at the Blacksburg Baptist Church on Sunday, October 12, 2014. The family will receive friends immediately following the service at the church. In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to the Blacksburg Baptist Church, Land of Promise Fund, 550 North Main Street, Blacksburg, VA 24060. Arrangements by McCoy Funeral Home, Blacksburg.Dowdy, Christine WertzChristine Wertz Dowdy, 92, of Roanoke, passed away Wednesday, October 1, 2014. Funeral Services will be 2 p.m. Monday, October 6, 2014, at Oakey's South Chapel, Roanoke, Va., 540-989-3131.Bailey, KevinKevin Bailey, 31, of Christiansburg, passed away October 5, 2014. Arrangements by Horne Funeral Home & Crematory.Hammes, Pete HermanPete Herman Hammes, 86, of Goodview, passed away Tuesday, September 30, 2014. Graveside Service will be 1 p.m. Monday, October 6, 2014, at Iaeger Memorial Cemetery, W.Va. Arrangements by Oakey's Vinton Chapel, Vinton, Va., 540-982-2221.




                
                  Featured Businesses
                
                      










					    
							McCraw Real Estate Inc.
						















					    
							Harvey's Chevrolet Cadillac Buick
						















					    
							Duncan Ford Mercury Chrysler Dodge & Jeep
						















					    
							Woods Family Heating & Air Conditioning
						




















BUY A PHOTO


[BROWSE PHOTOS]







                
                  Special Sections
                
                      











                            Smith Mountain Lake Charity Home Tour 2014
                        






Beautiful Setting, Beautiful Homes, Beautiful Cause











Laker Magazine Sept/Oct 2014






Laker Magazine September / October edition.





























© 2014 THE ROANOKE TIMES


roanoke.com




Services



Privacy Policy


Terms & Conditions


Site Map


Contact Us


Work for us


Smith Mountain Lake Visitor Guide


Mobile Site


Standard Site
















Screen Name or Email

Password
Forgot?







Screen Name or Email


Now I remember!






            Need an account? Create one now.
        




























