Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man following her | WJLA.com 
Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man following her | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






EDUCATION
Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man following her

By The Associated Press, Robert Lyles

			September 17, 2014 - 12:45 pm Updated: September 18, 2014 - 08:07 am
		




































Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (WJLA/AP) - The parents of a missing University of Virginia student said Wednesday they fear she is the victim of "foul play" as police found surveillance videos showing the 18-year-old walking past a pub, running past a service station, and running onto the Downtown Mall.
Continue reading


Police press conference - Part 2
















Police release new video of missing student
















Sal's Pizza surveillance video



















Hannah Elizabeth Graham, who has been reported missing from UVA in Charlottesville where she is a student. (Photo: Charlottesville PD)






Still image from video shows what Graham was wearing when she disappeared. (Photo: Charlottesville PD)



More on this story


U.Va. student from Alexandria missing

Search area expands after police get new lead



Yet another video surfaced late Wednesday night, police said, showing Hannah E. Graham being followed by an unknown man.
Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said earlier in the day that the videos had been extremely helpful as investigators try to piece together what happened to Graham early Saturday morning but said police still need to hear from anyone who might have any information about Graham, no matter how insignificant it might seem.
Graham's friends reported her missing Sunday. They last heard from her Saturday morning, when she texted a friend after leaving a party to say she was lost. Police have searched a wide area northeast and east of the campus without success.
"Hannah is beyond precious to us, and we are devastated by her disappearance," her parents, John and Susan Graham, said in a statement released at a news conference in downtown Charlottesville. "It is totally out of character for us not to have heard from her, and we fear foul play."
At the afternoon news conference, Longo said police didn't have "any substantial evidence" supporting fears of foul play, despite the initial videos.
Those videos and an eyewitness' tip prompted police to canvass downtown businesses Wednesday. A team of detectives went door-to-door at bookstores, bars and restaurants in the hope of recovering more surveillance videos, police Capt. Gary Pleasants said.
That canvassing effort apparently turned up the latest video for police on Wednesday night which showed a man following Graham.
Longo said Graham met friends for dinner at a restaurant Friday night, dropped by parties at two off-campus housing units, and left the second one alone. She sent several texts, including the one indicating she was lost, but Longo said he "didn't get the sense there was fear" in any of the messages.
He said Graham had been drinking that night. He said police released that information to emphasize that she may have been unusually vulnerable and her judgment may have been impaired.
Detective Jim Mooney, the lead investigator, said police have interviewed about 50 people.
The search for the student, who was born in England but has lived in Virginia since she was 5, has involved local police, the Virginia State Police, University of Virginia police and the FBI, which is processing leads, Pleasants said. The search has also included canine teams and helicopters.
At least three other young women have disappeared in the area in the last five years.
Police said there was no indication Graham's disappearance was linked to any of the other cases, but Mooney said the rural area where Morgan Harrington's remains were found has been checked just in case. Harrington, a Virginia Tech student, disappeared in 2009 while attending a rock concert at the University of Virginia's John Paul Jones Arena. No arrests have been made in that case.
Graham is 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. Police released surveillance photos showing Graham dressed in the black slacks and gold and black crop top she was believed to be wearing when she disappeared.
Police have established a designated tip line for information on Graham. The number is 434-295-3851.


Read More:
Hannah Graham, 
Missing UVa. Girl, 
Missing Student, 
Sightings, 
Surveillance, 
Video Footage, 
Witness, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Virginia, 
Missing Teen, 
Missing Person, 
Missing Woman








Recommended For You










More in "Education"



'Constitution rap' helps sisters raise $10 million for military family scholarships



Alexandria school among 30 percent in Virginia that fail to meet standards



Art lovers flock to Corcoran Gallery before it closes for renovation and new partnership












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



Missing U.Va. student Hannah Graham's parents fear 'foul play' as new video emerged showing man foll









Silver Spring math teacher, Sarah Manchester, wins $1 million on 'Wheel Of Fortune'
















Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit









Police confident Va. search site will yield answers in 1975 Md. Lyon sisters disappearance









Ancient skeleton couple found holding hands for 700 years in England









7 On Your Side: Much-beloved Cozy Inn cashes large check for couple's wedding, then closes doors









Celebrity Buzz: Chris Brown's 'X' panned; Springsteen again steps up for vets





















News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

