Search area for Hannah Elizabeth Graham, missing University of Virginia student, expands after police get new lead | WJLA.com 
Search area for Hannah Elizabeth Graham, missing University of Virginia student, expands after police get new lead | WJLA.com















WJLA



Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Pinterest
Mobile
RSS


















News
Weather
Traffic
D.C.
MD
VA
Business
Crime
Sports
NewsChannel 8


Video
GovMatters
Politics
Entertainment
Health
World
Pay It Forward
Powerjobs






EDUCATION
Search area for Hannah Elizabeth Graham, missing University of Virginia student, expands after police get new lead

By The Associated Press

			September 16, 2014 - 12:04 pm Updated: September 16, 2014 - 09:46 pm
		







Surveillance video image of missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham. 














Email
Print




Decrease
Increase
					Text size
				



CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) - Police adjusted their search area Tuesday for a missing University of Virginia student, at least the fourth young woman to go missing in the area in the past five years.
Continue reading





Hannah Graham. (Charlottesville Police)



More on this story


U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned



The shift in the search for Hannah Elizabeth Graham is based on video that police obtained showing Graham walking early Saturday outside of a bar where she was last seen, Charlottesville police Lt. Robbie Roberts said.
The video, which was not released, shifted the search east of the original focus of the investigation, he said.
Police used a bloodhound to search a large area northeast of the university on Monday and found no trace of Graham, 18, who is from Alexandria.
In a statement issued through the university, her parents John and Susan Graham and brother James said they were "heartbroken" but hopeful Graham will be found.
"Those of us who know and love Hannah know that she would not disappear without contacting family or friends," the family's statement said. "She is highly responsible and organized."
The Grahams are in Charlottesville, Capt. Gary Pleasants said.
Virginia State Police and the Albemarle County Sheriff's Office were assisting as officials resumed the search. The FBI, the Virginia State Police and other law enforcement agencies have joined the search, Roberts said.
Roberts also said he was not familiar with all the cases of missing women in the area, but he did not believe there was a connection.
Police said Graham's friends reported her missing Sunday after realizing nobody had seen or heard from her since early Saturday morning, when she sent a text message to a friend after leaving a party.
At least three other young women have disappeared in the area in the last five years. Nineteen-year-old Samantha Ann Clarke, who vanished after leaving her Orange County town house in September 2010, and 19-year-old DaShad Laquinn Smith, who disappeared in Charlottesville in November 2012, remain missing.
Morgan Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student, disappeared from the University of Virginia's John Paul Jones Arena while attending a rock concert in October 2009. Her remains were found three months later in a rural area. No arrests have been made.
According to university officials, Graham is 5-foot-11 with blue eyes, light brown hair and freckles. Police released surveillance photos showing Graham dressed in the black slacks and gold and black crop top she was believed to be wearing when she disappeared.
University President Teresa A. Sullivan issued a statement saying the community is "united in our deep concern" for the first-year student.
A "Help Find Hannah Graham" page was established on Facebook.
Police have also established a designated tip line for information on Graham. The number is 434-295-3851.


Read More:
University Of Virginia, 
Hannah Graham, 
Charlottesville, 
Virginia, 
NewsChannel 8, 
Alexandria VA, 
Alexandria








Recommended For You










More in "Education"



Alexandria school among 30 percent in Virginia that fail to meet standards



Art lovers flock to Corcoran Gallery before it closes for renovation and new partnership



Report of man with gun led to all-day lock-in for Alexandria schools, police search












Enter Search Term

Search










Hot on WJLA.com Today's most talked about stories



U.Va. student from Alexandria, Hannah Graham, reported missing, community concerned









Only On 7: Afghan policemen working with DEA vanish during Georgetown visit
















Police search property in SW Virginia in 40-year-old Md. Lyon sisters disappearance case









Celebrity Buzz: Rihanna out after ripping CBS for not airing her song amid Ray Rice controversy









'Get Your Game Face On' CoverGirl ad attacked by NFL protesters upset over Ray Rice









Report of man with gun led to all-day lock-in for Alexandria schools, police search









2 missing Clarksburg, Md. kids believed dead; police build homicide case against mom





















News

ABC7
NewsChannel 8



Multimedia

ABC7 Livestream
NewsChannel 8 Livestream
ABC7 Video Archive
WJLA Photo Galleries
Newsletters
Games



Blogs

Blog Directory
Arch Campbell Show
Capital Golf Weekly
Capital Insider
Let's Talk Live
News Talk
The Pet Show
StormWatch 7 Weather



About Us

About Us and Talent Bios
ABC7 Program Schedule
NewsChannel 8 Program Schedule
Where to Find NewsChannel 8
Job Openings



Reach Out to Us

Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Advertise with Us — ABC7/WJLA
Advertise with Us — NewsChannel 8
Advertising Terms &  Conditions

Ways to get ABC7

RSS
Facebook
Twitter
iPhone
Android




© 2014 Allbritton Communications Company

Online Public File
EEO Reports
Children's Programming
Closed Captioning
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service









 

