Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.  | WTVR.com  
Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.  | WTVR.com






GoSearch







 Replay: CBS 6 Noon News 
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WTVR.com

 Menu

News
Traffic
Health
Community
On-Air
Contests
Heroes Among Us




Weather 

73°







73°


Low 44°
High 77°





Tue


					55°  80°
					


Wed


					61°  82°
					


Thu


					55°  79°
					


See complete forecast




 







 HANNAH GRAHAM: Latest information on missing college student						








 







Community search for missing student Hannah Graham will start near UVa.

Posted 12:10 am, September 20, 2014, by Chelsea Rarrick 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestRedditEmail 




CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — It’s been one week since friends or family heard from or saw second-year University of Virginia student Hannah Graham.
Now, seven days later at least 1,500 people are assembled at John Paul Jones arena in Charlottesville. The volunteers are being prepped to search Saturday for any clues that may lead to Graham.
“I think it’s really awesome to see the UVa. and Charlotesville community coming together.”
Those gathered heard first from Gil Harrington, whose daughter disappeared four years ago after attending a concert at the very place where volunteers were gathered Friday night.
Coordinator Mark Eggeman believes they may see up to 2,000 people attend the search Saturday.  The plan is to begin searching certain areas near the university.
“One of the areas that was not searched as well as we would like it to be would be the grounds around the university campus itself and heading out more west and north,” Eggeman said to NBC29. 
On Friday, Charlottesville Police released new, major details in the case.  They believe Hannah was with a man inside a bar called Tempo, off 5th Street in the downtown mall.
Police say they are talking about the same man who lives in the apartment complex on Hessian Hills Way, where police executed two search warrants Friday morning.
The person police are interested in right now was described at Friday’s press conference as a black, dreadlocked male, 6’2″ and 32 years of age, weighing around 270 pounds.
Longo said that is the man seen in surveillance video with Graham.
“It’s entirely possible that Hannah Graham may have gotten into his vehicle,” said Chief Longo.
Longo described the man’s car as a burnt orange 1998 Chrysler coupe, and confirmed it is the same car police seized from the apartment complex.
“It was around five in the morning, we had heard notice around 4:30 and looked out and saw a tow truck with a lot of people,” said neighbors.
Neighbor Mark Bressan lives just across the way and recently had an interaction with the man police are interested in.
“He seems like a nice guy the only time I met him was probably about a two minute conversation about three weeks ago,” said Bressan.
Police did not take the man in custody, but say he is someone they are interested in speaking with more. They also emphasized they are committed to not just making an arrest, but making one that can lead to a conviction.
Police passionately pleaded that anyone who may have seen the dreadlocked man, Hannah or his car to call police.
Police thanked the community for responding and encouraged more people to come forward. Chief Longo asked for home and business owners to check their surveillance cameras and contact them, no matter what part of the county they live in.
“If you live in the city of Charlottesville, if you attend the University of Virginia, if that lady has touched your life in any way, you have the responsibility to help us find her,” he said.
If you have information that could help investigators, call the special Hannah Graham tip line at 434-295-3851.
All surveillance videos can be seen here.
All reports filed on this case can be found here.


One of Hannah Graham’s last tweets was about helping a drunk woman


Jesse Matthew, Hannah Graham abduction suspect, back in Charlottesville


All surveillance videos of missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham


Hannah Graham’s parents say she left her ‘guardian angel’ at home before returning to UVa.




Filed in: News Topics: Hannah Elizabeth Graham 











 






Steve Harvey Now On CBS 6!
Ellen at 3 p.m. | Steve Harvey at 4 p.m. | CBS 6 News at 5 p.m. with Zo and Julie







 

 


Popular



WATCH: Man goes off after spotting panhandler’s new ride



Car plows through Henrico apartment building; lands on top of family in bed



Preschooler who went to bed fine, didn’t wake up — due to enterovirus D68



Watch this shocked mom’s priceless reaction to her rare ultrasound news







 


Latest News



Sources: Pennsylvania trooper shooting suspect detailed ambush in letter



Raven-Symone: I’m not gay — and I’m not African-American



Teen arrested trying to leave US; accused of attempting to join ISIS



Next-generation diving suit could revolutionize the future of ocean exploration















News

Hannah Graham’s mother: Someone can ‘end this nightmare’


News

Police release photo of Jesse Leroy Matthew Jr., ‘person of interest’ in Hannah Graham’s disappearance


News

Police announce new clues in search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Two Charlottesville sexual assaults reported same weekend Hannah Graham disappeared


News

Police search for missing UVa. student Hannah Elizabeth Graham



 


News

Parents of missing UVa. student Hannah Graham beseech students to be safe this weekend


News

Report: ‘Person of interest’ admits to buying missing UVa. student Hannah Graham a drink


News

Hannah Graham searchers have an important message for Virginia hunters and hikers


News

Evidence links Graham-Harrington cases, woman who worked with suspect Jesse Matthew ‘shocked’


News

Police search Charlottesville apartment for clues into disappearance of UVa. student Hannah Graham



 


News

Police release new pictures of missing UVa student Hannah Graham


News

Randolph-Macon students hold vigil for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham


News

Click here to join search for missing UVa. student Hannah Graham






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
Android Weather App
iPhone & iPad App
iPhone Weather App




Facebook
Twitter
Email Alerts
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		3301 W Broad Street Richmond VA 23230  •
		Copyright © 2014, WTVR		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts


























Follow

Follow “WTVR.com”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,632 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com









Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			

















