Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900 - NYTimes.
Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900 - NYTimes.
com no longer supports Internet Explorer 8 or earlier.
Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900
Clear this text input
Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900
By ELLEN BARRYAPRIL 25, 2015
Continue reading the main story
Earthquake Strikes Near Nepal’s Capital
Earthquake Strikes Near Nepal’s Capital
CreditNarendra Shrestha/European Pressphoto Agency
Continue reading the main story
Continue reading the main story
Continue reading the main story
Continue reading the main story
Continue reading the main story
NEW DELHI — A powerful earthquake shook Nepal on Saturday near its capital, Katmandu, killing more than 1,900 people, flattening sections of the city’s historic center, and trapping dozens of sightseers in a 200-foot watchtower that came crashing down into a pile of bricks.
As officials in Nepal faced the devastation on Sunday morning, they said that most of the 1,931 deaths occurred in Katmandu and the surrounding valley, and that more than 4,700 people had been injured.
But the quake touched a vast expanse of the subcontinent.
It set off avalanches around Mount Everest, where at least 17 climbers died.
At least 34 deaths occurred in northern India.
Buildings swayed in Tibet and Bangladesh.
Continue reading the main story
Everest Climbers Are Killed as Nepal Quake Sets Off AvalancheAPRIL 25, 2015
Live: Latest Updates on Earthquake in Nepal
Ancient Collision Made Nepal Earthquake InevitableAPRIL 25, 2015
‘Google Adventurer’ Dies on Mt.
Nepalese in Queens Anxiously Waiting to Hear From Relatives After QuakeAPRIL 25, 2015
Maps of the Damage From the Nepal EarthquakesAPRIL 25, 2015
The earthquake, with a magnitude of 7.
8, struck shortly before noon, and residents of Katmandu ran into the streets and other open spaces as buildings fell, throwing up clouds of dust.
Wide cracks opened on paved streets and in the walls of city buildings.
Motorcycles tipped over and slid off the edge of a highway.
Continue reading the main story
A deadly earthquake shook Nepal on Saturday near its capital, Katmandu, and set off avalanches around Mount Everest.
By Rajneesh Bhandari and Colin Archdeacon on                                                    Publish Date April 25, 2015.
Photo by Rajneesh Bhandari for The New York Times.
By midafternoon, the United States Geological Survey had counted 12 aftershocks, one of which measured 6.
6.Seismologists have expected a major earthquake in western Nepal, where there is pent-up pressure from the grinding of the Indian tectonic plate as is it forced underneath the Eurasian plate to the north.
Still, witnesses described a chaotic rescue effort during the first hours after the quake as emergency workers and volunteers grabbed tools and bulldozers from construction sites, and dug with hacksaws, mangled reinforcing bars and their hands.
Though many have worried about the stability of the concrete high-rises that have been hastily erected in Katmandu, the most terrible damage on Saturday was to the oldest part of the city, which is studded with temples and palaces made of wood and unmortared brick.
Four of the area’s seven Unesco World Heritage sites were severely damaged in the earthquake: Bhaktapur Durbar Square, a temple complex built in the shape of a conch shell; Patan Durbar Square, which dates to the third century; Basantapur Durbar Square, which was the residence of Nepal’s royal family until the 19th century; and the Boudhanath Stupa, one of the oldest Buddhist monuments in the Himalayas.
Continue reading the main story
For many, the most breathtaking architectural loss was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, which was built in 1832 on the orders of the queen.
The tower had recently reopened to the public, and visitors could ascend a spiral staircase to a viewing platform around 200 feet above the city.
Continue reading the main story
By The New York Times; satellite image by NASA/U.
Landsat via Google Earth
Continue reading the main story
Long-Predicted Death Toll in Nepal Earthquake Reflects Wider Himalayan Seismic RiskAPRIL 25, 2015
The walls were brick, around one and a half feet thick, and when the earthquake struck, they came crashing down.
The police said on Saturday that they had pulled about 60 bodies from the rubble of the tower.
Kashish Das Shrestha, a photographer and writer, spent much of the day in the old city, but said he still had trouble grasping that the tower was gone.
“I was here yesterday, I was here the day before yesterday, and it was there,” he said.
“Today it’s just gone.
Last night, from my terrace, I was looking at the tower.
And today I was at the tower — and there is no tower.
Continue reading the main story
Kanak Mani Dixit, a Nepalese political commentator, said he had been having lunch with his parents when the quake struck.
The rolling was so intense and sustained that he had trouble getting to his feet, he said.
He helped his father and an elderly neighbor to safety in the garden outside and then had to carry his elderly mother.
“And I had time to do all that while the quake was still going on,” Mr.  Dixit said.
“It was like being on a boat in heavy seas.
Continue reading the main story
Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the Earthquake
The earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 flattened sections of Katmandu’s historic center, where many structures were made with bricks.
Roger Bilham, a professor of geological sciences at the University of Colorado, said the shaking lasted about one minute, although it continued for another minute in some places.
For years, people have worried about an earthquake of this magnitude in western Nepal.
Many feared that an immense death toll would result, in part because construction has been largely unregulated in recent years, said Ganesh K.  Bhattari, a Nepalese expert on earthquakes, now living in Denmark.
He said the government had made some buildings more robust and reinforced vulnerable ones, but many larger buildings, like hospitals and old-age homes, remained extremely vulnerable.
“There is a little bit of improvement,” he said.
“But it is really difficult for people to implement the rules and the regulations.
”Kunda Dixit, the editor of The Nepali Times, said that Nepal was still emerging from many years of turmoil — a decade-long war with Maoist insurgents, followed by chronic political uncertainty — and that contingency planning for events like earthquakes had often taken a back seat to “present disasters.
”“The government hasn’t been able to get around to a lot of things, not just disaster preparedness,” Mr.  Dixit said.
Continue reading the main story
Earthquake in Nepal Kills Hundreds
An earthquake with an estimated magnitude of 7.
8 shook Nepal on Saturday near its capital, Katmandu, flattening sections of the city’s historic center.
By Reuters on                                                    Publish Date April 25, 2015.
Saturday’s earthquake struck when schools were not in session, which may have reduced the death toll.
But there was not yet a full picture of the damage to villages on the mountain ridges around Katmandu, where families live in houses made of mud and thatch.
As night fell, aftershocks were still hitting, prompting waves of screaming.
Many residents sat on roads for much of the day, afraid to go back indoors, and many insisted that they would spend the night outside despite the cold.
Thousands camped out at the city’s parade ground.
The city’s shops were running short of bottled water, dry food and telephone charge cards.
Toward evening, hospitals were trying to accommodate a huge influx of patients, some with amputated limbs, and were running short of supplies like bandages and trauma kits, said Jamie McGoldrick, resident coordinator with the United Nations Development Program in Nepal.
Water supplies, a problem under normal circumstances in this fast-growing city, will almost certainly run short, he said.
Search and rescue personnel will face the challenge of reaching villages nearer the quake’s epicenter, about 50 miles northwest of Katmandu, where damage may be catastrophic.
Secretary of State John Kerry said the American ambassador to Nepal, Peter W.  Bodde, had issued a disaster declaration that would allow $1 million in humanitarian assistance to be available immediately.
A disaster response team and an urban search-and-rescue team from the United States Agency for International Development will also be deployed, he said in a statement,
Continue reading the main story
Continue reading the main story
China and India, which jockey for influence in the region, have pledged disaster assistance.
On Mount Everest, several hundred trekkers were attempting an ascent when the earthquake struck, setting off avalanches, according to climbers there.
Alex Gavan, a hiker at base camp, called it a “huge disaster” on Twitter and described “running for life from my tent.
” Nima Namgyal Sherpa, a tour guide at base camp, said in a Facebook post that many camps had been destroyed.
Tremors from the quake were felt across northern India, rattling bookcases and light fixtures as far away as New Delhi.
Electricity was switched off for safety reasons in the Indian state of Bihar, where three deaths were reported in one district, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, India’s minister of skill development, told reporters in New Delhi.
Two deaths were reported in another district.
The region has been the site of the largest earthquakes in the Himalayas, including a 2005 quake in the Kashmir region and a 1905 earthquake in Kangra, India.
Correction: May 3, 2015
An article last Sunday about a 7.
8 magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal near its capital, Katmandu, referred imprecisely to the seismic pressure building up in western Nepal.
The Indian tectonic plate is being forced underneath the Eurasian plate to the north; although it is pushing back up against the Eurasian plate, it is not itself being forced upward.
In addition, a map with the continuation of the article mislabeled, in some editions, the location of Mount Everest.
It straddles the Nepal-China border; it is not entirely in China.
Reporting was contributed by Gardiner Harris, Nida Najar and Hari Kumar from New Delhi; Bhadra Sharma from Katmandu, Nepal; Chris Buckley from Hong Kong; and Kenneth Chang from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on April 26, 2015, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Major Quake Ravages Nepal.
Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe
Go to Home Page »
International New York Times
© 2015 The New York Times Company
Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900 - NYTimes.