Nepal earthquake: day one - as it happened | World news | The Guardian
Nepal earthquake: day one - as it happened | World news | The Guardian
Nepal earthquake: day one - as it happened
Kathmandu earthquake leaves buildings in ruins as death toll rises - video.
More than 1,000 people have been reported dead after a huge 7.
9 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal
The total death toll has risen quickly throughout the day, and is now thought to include at least 634 in the Kathmandu Valley and 300 more in the capital.
36 people have also been reported dead India, 12 in China, four in Bangladesh and six in Tibet.
UK foreign secretary Philip Hammond said the government was in close contact with Nepal, and the British Embassy is offering assistance to the authorities and British Nationals in the country.
The total death toll from the earthquake has risen again, to 1,130.
A Nepali police spokesman said the latest figure included at least 634 people in the Kathmandu Valley and at least 300 more in the capital.
No one in my family was injured,” Karki said.
One family were sat with their 20-year-old relative, Kanchan Sunwar, who had collapsed when the earthquake struck.
The foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, has issued a statement in response to the earthquake in Nepal:
My thoughts are with the people of Nepal and everyone affected by the terrible loss of life and widespread damage caused by the earthquake.
It’s evening in Nepal now, so rescue workers are trying to get to the most vulnerable people who now have nowhere to sleep for the night.
BBC is now putting the death toll at 970, with 539 of the victims in the Kathmandu Valley.
18 people found dead on Mount Everest
An Indian army mountaineering team has found 18 bodies on Mount Everest, an army spokesman has said.
Ministry officials estimated that at least 1,000 climbers, including about 400 foreigners, had been at base camp or on Everest when the earthquake struck.
It said this estimate was based on eyewitness reports from staff who are in the area.
Carsten Lillelund Pedersen, a Dane who is climbing the Everest with a Belgian climber Jelle Veyt, said on his Facebook page that they were at Khumbu Icefall , a rugged area of collapsed ice and snow close to base camp at altitude 5,000 meters (16,500 feet) when the earthquake hit.
Thousands of people in Kathmandu are bedding down outside tonight for fear of further aftershocks from the massive earthquake which struck Nepal this morning.
Given the type of terrain in Nepal, it is crucial to extend the search and rescue measures to rural areas outside Kathmandu quickly.
The latest reports bring the total death total to more than 900.
The BBC is also reporting that more than 1,700 people have also been injured.
Unicef UK has put out an appeal to help those affected by the earthquake in Nepal.
We will be helping to support Nepal’s children in danger from this earthquake and we need your help to do this.
As many as 13 people were killed on Everest on Saturday as a massive avalanche – triggered by the earthquake – that swept through base camp.
We are facing a tremendous crisis here and it is hard to even assess what the death toll and the extent of damage could be,” said Mohan Krishna Sapkota, a second tourism official.
Many of the reported deaths have been in the more populous areas, but there have also been reports of devastation in outlying, isolated mountainous areas.
A London-based company, which runs guided mountaineering adventures in the Himalayas, has said that none of its members have been killed or injured in avalanches that were triggered by the earthquake in Nepal.
The company appears to have been running two expeditions on Everest - one climbing the mountain’s north side, and a second group on a longer trek up the south side.
A Nepalese home ministry official said 467 people had been killed in the Kathmandu Valley.
The death toll has now climbed to 758 people, across four countries.
Meanwhile, Pakistan prime minister Nawaz Sharif has offered “all possible help” that Nepal may need after the earthquake.
The ancient Dharhara tower - which is one of the most prominent buildings to have collapsed in the heart of Kathmandu’s historic old city - was one of the city’s biggest tourist attractions.
Dinesh Acharya, a spokesman for Kathmandu police, said rescue workers were frantically trying to “bring everyone out to safety”.
We are aware of reports of an earthquake in Nepal.
Reuters is now reporting that at least 688 people have been killed, according to a senior home ministry official in Nepal.
This includes 181 people people who have died in the capital, Kathmandu.
An official with Nepal’s mountaineering department has said that the bodies of eight people have been recovered on Mount Everest, following an avalanche triggered by the earthquake.
They said that an unknown number of people remain missing or injured.
The death toll in Nepal has reached 618, according to an official from Nepal’s Home Ministry, who was speaking on Indian TV.
A full scale assessment is not yet complete, but this was a particularly large earthquake and a very shallow one so we are expecting high and significant damage, especially in Lamjung, Gorkha district (the epicenter of the earthquake).
There’s no doubt it’s a very big earthquake, but we are fortunate it was not in, or closer to Kathmandu, or the impact would have been catastrophic.
The death toll in Nepal has reached 449, according to an estimate by the police.
Most of the fatalities that have been reported are in the Kathmandu Valley, though there is little information coming from the outlying areas of the region.
Krishna Prasad Dhakal, deputy chief of mission at Nepal’s Embassy in New Delhi, said: “Hundreds of people are feared dead and there are reports of widespread damage to property.
Ram Narayan Pandey, of the Nepal Disaster Management Authority said: “We are totally cut off from most parts of our country.
Reports also said that two people in Bangladesh have died in the earth quake, on top of more than 100 injuries.
Moments after the earthquake struck, thousands of Kathmandu’s residents rushed onto the streets, gathering in the middle of the mains roads for safety.
Here’s the full report by Jason Burke, in Delhi, and Ishwar Rauniyar, in Kathmandu.
Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world and ill equipped to deal with a major disaster.
“I am confused whether to go back to home or not, there are rumours that might earthquake come again,” said Vivek Rai, a 22-year-old who is living in a rented flat in Kathmandu.
Kathmandu’s street are full of people with less access to vehicles.
An acclaimed British mountaineer, Daniel Mazur, is apparently among those caught after avalanches triggered by the earthquake hit Mount Everest:
Krishna Prasad Dhakal, deputy chief of mission at Nepal’s embassy in New Delhi, said: “Hundreds of people are feared dead and there are reports of widespread damage to property.
In India, the death toll has also gone up to at least 11, including reports of six people killed by collapsing houses in Uttar Pradesh.
Government officials have said that at least 30 people have been injured on Mount Everest.
Ang Tshering, of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, also said the avalanche apparently occurred between the Khumbu Icefall, a rugged area of collapsed ice and snow, and the base camp where most climbing expeditions have their main camps.
April is one of the most popular times to climb Everest because of the good weather conditions.
The AP says that the earthquake has also affected Bangladesh, with reports of two deaths and more than 100 people injured.
Somoy TV station said that one man was killed in the capital Dhaka and another in the northwestern district of Pabna.
It said that the injuries happened as people rushed out of homes and shopping malls.
Nepal’s police says that at least 108 people have been killed, according to an “initial estimate”.
Separately, reports say that the country’s Home Ministry has said that at least 71 have been killed.
Reuters has reported that at least 36 people have died :
Kathmandu’s main civil hospital said 36 bodies had been counted so far after a 7.
9 earthquake hit the impoverished Himalayan country of Nepal on Saturday.
The shallow quake struck west Kathmandu, causing buildings to collapse, injuring many and leaving a pall of dust over the city, witnesses said.
Reuters says that a television station in Nepal has shown at least 21 bodies lined up on the ground after the earthquake.
The Times of India says that several mountaineers have been reported missing, after avalanches hit the Mount Everest region.
There are reports that the quake has triggered avalanches in the Mount Everest region of the Himalayas.
No fatalities have yet been confirmed by authorities, but reports suggest that at least four people have been killed.
The main hospital in Kathmandu has seen dozens of people rushed in with broken limbs and other injuries sustained from the quake, though it is unclear how many have been injured.
Associated Press has reported that several buildings in the centre of Kathmandu have collapsed, including ancient temples and towers.
AP said: “Among them was the Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu’s landmarks built by Nepal’s royal rulers in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument.
It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.
9 magnitude earthquake has hit Nepal, the worst tremor in Himalayan nation in more than 80 years brings.
The epicentre was 50 miles (80km) north-west of Kathmandu, but the earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan.
Nepal’s information minister, Minendra Rijal, told India’s NDTV station that there are reports of damage in and around Kathmandu but no immediate word on casualties.
The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, tweeted: “News has come in about an earthquake in Nepal.
Nepal earthquake: day one - as it happened | World news | The Guardian