Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900 - NYTimes.
Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900 - NYTimes.
Asia Pacific|Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900
Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900
Earthquake Strikes Near Nepal’s Capital
Earthquake Strikes Near Nepal’s Capital
NEW DELHI — A powerful earthquake shook Nepal on Saturday near its capital, Katmandu, killing more than 1,900 people, flattening sections of the city’s historic center, and trapping dozens of sightseers in a 200-foot watchtower that came crashing down into a pile of bricks.
As officials in Nepal faced the devastation on Sunday morning, they said that most of the 1,931 deaths occurred in Katmandu and the surrounding valley, and that more than 4,700 people had been injured.
Everest Climbers Are Killed as Nepal Quake Sets Off AvalancheAPRIL 25, 2015
Live: Latest Updates on Earthquake in Nepal
Ancient Collision Made Nepal Earthquake InevitableAPRIL 25, 2015
A deadly earthquake shook Nepal on Saturday near its capital, Katmandu, and set off avalanches around Mount Everest.
6.Seismologists have expected a major earthquake in western Nepal, where there is pent-up pressure from the grinding of the Indian tectonic plate as is it forced underneath the Eurasian plate to the north.
Four of the area’s seven Unesco World Heritage sites were severely damaged in the earthquake: Bhaktapur Durbar Square, a temple complex built in the shape of a conch shell; Patan Durbar Square, which dates to the third century; Basantapur Durbar Square, which was the residence of Nepal’s royal family until the 19th century; and the Boudhanath Stupa, one of the oldest Buddhist monuments in the Himalayas.
Long-Predicted Death Toll in Nepal Earthquake Reflects Wider Himalayan Seismic RiskAPRIL 25, 2015
The walls were brick, around one and a half feet thick, and when the earthquake struck, they came crashing down.
Nepal’s Historic Sites, Before and After the Earthquake
The earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 flattened sections of Katmandu’s historic center, where many structures were made with bricks.
Roger Bilham, a professor of geological sciences at the University of Colorado, said the shaking lasted about one minute, although it continued for another minute in some places.
For years, people have worried about an earthquake of this magnitude in western Nepal.
Many feared that an immense death toll would result, in part because construction has been largely unregulated in recent years, said Ganesh K.  Bhattari, a Nepalese expert on earthquakes, now living in Denmark.
He said the government had made some buildings more robust and reinforced vulnerable ones, but many larger buildings, like hospitals and old-age homes, remained extremely vulnerable.
”Kunda Dixit, the editor of The Nepali Times, said that Nepal was still emerging from many years of turmoil — a decade-long war with Maoist insurgents, followed by chronic political uncertainty — and that contingency planning for events like earthquakes had often taken a back seat to “present disasters.
Earthquake in Nepal Kills Hundreds
Saturday’s earthquake struck when schools were not in session, which may have reduced the death toll.
Toward evening, hospitals were trying to accommodate a huge influx of patients, some with amputated limbs, and were running short of supplies like bandages and trauma kits, said Jamie McGoldrick, resident coordinator with the United Nations Development Program in Nepal.
Secretary of State John Kerry said the American ambassador to Nepal, Peter W.  Bodde, had issued a disaster declaration that would allow $1 million in humanitarian assistance to be available immediately.
On Mount Everest, several hundred trekkers were attempting an ascent when the earthquake struck, setting off avalanches, according to climbers there.
Electricity was switched off for safety reasons in the Indian state of Bihar, where three deaths were reported in one district, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, India’s minister of skill development, told reporters in New Delhi.
Two deaths were reported in another district.
8 magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal near its capital, Katmandu, referred imprecisely to the seismic pressure building up in western Nepal.
Reporting was contributed by Gardiner Harris, Nida Najar and Hari Kumar from New Delhi; Bhadra Sharma from Katmandu, Nepal; Chris Buckley from Hong Kong; and Kenneth Chang from New York.
Earthquake Devastates Nepal, Killing More Than 1,900 - NYTimes.