7 dead in crash at British air show - CNN.com7 dead in crash at British air show - CNN.com
Breaking News
Toggle Search
U.S. Edition
U.S.
International
Arabic
Español
Set edition preference
Confirm
Search
Quick Links
At least 7 dead after vintage military jet crashes at UK air show 
By Ralph Ellis and Ian Lee, CNN
Updated 8:17 AM ET, Sun August 23, 2015 
JUST WATCHED
7 dead in crash at British air show
MUST WATCH
7 dead in crash at British air show
 
01:26
Story highlights
 Police will keep searching for people
The pilot survived but was badly injured, police said
7 people died when the plane crashed on a road next to the airport near Shoreham in Sussex
Were you at the airshow? Share your images with 
.
 (CNN)
Police on Sunday will search for possible additional victims after a Cold War-era military jet that was part of an air show crashed on a busy highway in southeastern England.
At least seven people died Saturday, all of them on the road next to the airport, Police Superintendent Jane Derrick said.
The pilot was pulled from the wreckage of the plane and was airlifted to the Royal Sussex County Hospital, where he remained critically injured, Derrick said.
"It is possible that there are still bodies at the scene and it is important that our search is professional and thorough," Derrick said at a news conference. 
The Hawker Hunter jet was flying a loop when it nose-dived about 1:20 p.m. local time (9:20 a.m. ET) onto the road adjacent to the airport near Shoreham in Sussex. The road, the A27, will remain closed while the search is underway, she said.
The air show featured vintage military aircraft and was being put on by 
Shoreham Airshow organizers said the Sunday session of the show has been canceled. 
"Shoreham Airshow will not be taking place tomorrow because of the serious nature of today's incident," 
 "We would like to apologise for the inconvenience this may cause, but we hope the public will understand our decision."
Authorities asked anybody with still or video images of the crash to contact them.
"Sussex Police and the Air Accidents Investigation Branch have asked that anyone with photographs or video footage that may help with their investigations should send their contact details to shoreham.aircrash2015@sussex.pnn.police.uk," the airshow organizers said. "Do not send files, just contact details and information about the material you have."
About 2,000 Hawker Hunter single-seat jets were built in the 1950s in the Netherlands and Belgium, according to IHS Jane's Defense Industry. The plane is about 46 to 49 feet long, depending on the model, with a wingspan of 33 feet 8 inches.
More from Europe
More from Ian Lee
U.S. Edition
U.S.
International
Arabic
Español
Set edition preference
Confirm
© 2015 Cable News Network. 
 All Rights Reserved.