  Burkina Faso army backs Lt. Col. Isaac Zida as new head of state after President flees country | National Post 

  Burkina Faso army backs Lt. Col. Isaac Zida as new head of state after President flees country | National Post














 National Post
HomeFinancial PostNewsCommentPersonal FinanceInvestingTechSportsArtsLifeHealthHomesDrivingClassifiedsJobsSubscribeNewsWorldIsrael & The Middle East






World




TRENDINGGhomeshi | Income splitting | Ottawa | Magnotta | ISIS | Ford | NHL | SpaceShipTwo
Burkina Faso army backs Lt. Col. Isaac Zida as new head of state after President flees country

Simon Gongo and Pauline Bax, Washington Post | November 1, 2014 5:55 PM ETMore from Washington Post





Twitter

Google+


LinkedIn


Email


Comments
More



Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Digg
FarkIt
StumbleUpon


Burkina Faso — Burkina Faso’s military backed Lt. Col. Isaac Zida as head of state, ending a dispute between two soldiers who claimed power in the West African country after the long-standing president was forced to resign.
President Blaise Compaore, who ruled Burkina Faso for 27 years, quit Friday after four days of protests and fled to neighboring Ivory Coast.
“Lieutenant-Colonel Isaac Zida was unanimously chosen to lead the transition period which opened after the departure of President Compaore,” the military said in a statement.
Earlier, General Honore Traore, chief of staff of the armed forces, earlier claimed he was acting head of state. Zida, the presidential guard’s second-in-command, then said he was taking the role. News of Compaore’s resignation sparked celebrations by protesters in the Place de la Nation, a public square in the center of the city near the main military barracks, and in the second-biggest city, Bobo-Dioulasso.
The nation will hold “free and transparent” elections within 90 days, Compaore said in a statement published on the Burkina Faso website, LeFaso.net.
Zida had earlier said some officers didn’t recognize Traore’s assertion of power.
RelatedBurkina Faso’s president ends 27-year reign after protesters set parliament on fire
“The people are in power now,” he told reporters Friday at the Camp Guillaume Ouedraogo military barracks.
The resignation of Compaore, 63, was the culmination of an explosion of street protests over his plan for parliament to pass a law granting him another term ruling the country. He canceled the vote Friday as the demonstrations intensified with attacks on the National Assembly, and he later left the country.
“Blaise Compaore, his family and his entourage have been welcomed in Ivory Coast,” Marcel Amon-Tanoh, cabinet director of the Ivorian president’s office, said in an e-mailed statement.
Burkina Faso should hold elections as soon as possible, the African Union said in a statement. The end of Compaore’s rule “opens the necessary political space for all the stakeholders to work together to find a lasting resolution to the crisis facing the country,” the Addis Ababa-based organization said.
Compaore’s resignation “leaves a political vacuum that could bring considerable political and economic instability,” Bjorn Dahlin van Wees, a London-based analyst for the Economist Intelligence Unit, said by e-mail. “Uncertainty over the timing of the elections could also mean further unrest.”
France, the U.S. and African governments had told Compaore to expect a reaction if he changed the constitution, French officials in Paris said. The events in Burkina Faso are a warning to other countries that may consider changing their presidential term limits, such as Rwanda, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Republic of Congo, said the officials, who asked not to be named discussing policy.
“We’ve reached our goal, we’re happy,” said one of the protesters, Serge Bambara. “We wanted Blaise to leave and he’s gone.”
At least three people were killed in the protests, Robert Bibia Sangare, managing director of the largest medical facility in Ouagadougou, said by phone Friday. Hospital Yalgado Ouedraogo treated 62 people with injuries, he said.
“The United States is concerned about the unfolding events in Burkina Faso,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in an e-mailed statement Friday. “We condemn any attempts by the military or other parties to take advantage of the situation for unconstitutional gain.”
The U.S. recommended its citizens avoid traveling to the country, the state department said in a statement Saturday.
Burkina Faso, a nation of about 17 million people, is the second-largest cotton producer and fifth-biggest gold producer in sub-Saharan Africa. It ranks 181st out of 187 nations on the United Nations Human Development Index, which measures life expectancy, literacy, education and gross domestic product per capita. Per capita income in 2012 was about $650, according to the UN.

Traore was appointed chief of staff in 2011 following a revolt within the army over delayed pay and allowances that came in a year rocked by protests over rising costs of living. The mutiny forced Compaore to briefly flee the capital.
Traore “is not popular among the protesters,” the Economist Intelligence Unit’s van Wees said. “Depending on what path he chooses to go down, unrest could intensify again.”
Compaore, a former army officer, seized power in a 1987 coup that killed head of state Thomas Sankara, whom Compaore had helped install in an earlier putsch.
He won an election in 1991 that was boycotted by the opposition. Compaore was re-elected three times, each time claiming 80 percent of the vote.
As ruler of the landlocked former French colony in West Africa, he reversed many of Sankara’s Marxist policies and showed little tolerance for dissent.
Compaore was accused of involvement in civil wars in Liberia and Sierra Leone, and considered a longtime ally of former Liberian President Charles Taylor, who was handed to an international court in 2006 and later convicted of aiding war crimes in Sierra Leone.
Compaore subsequently recast himself as a regional peace broker, mediating in conflicts in Ivory Coast, Guinea, Mali and Togo. The president and his aides became “indispensable mediators” and monitors of the security situation in the Sahel and the Sahara, Brussels-based International Crisis Group said in a report last year.
Known as “beau Blaise,” or “handsome Blaise,” the former leader’s role mediating the region’s crises allowed him to expand Burkina Faso’s influence abroad and negotiate political and financial support from donors. Organizing international meetings to resolve conflicts also boosted economic activity in Ouagadougou, a city known for the biannual Fespaco film festival, which was first held in 1969 and showcases African cinema.
The country’s economy depends heavily on remittances from an estimated 4 million migrant workers in neighboring Ivory Coast, according to the World Bank. Agriculture employs about 85 percent of the population, with cotton as the main cash crop.
— With assistance from Gregory Viscusi in Paris, Daniel Magnowski in Abuja and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan.






				Find National Post on Facebook
			






Twitter

Google+


LinkedIn


Email


Comments
More



Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Digg
FarkIt
StumbleUpon



Most Popular

Prev
Next
 Brittany Maynard, 29-year-old right-to-die advocate with brain cancer, ends her life in Oregon British banker charged with two murders, one victim was found in suitcase on balcony of luxury apartment 'Idiot' Australian decides to surf dead whale -- while great white sharks feed on it Pittsburgh Post-Gazette publishes glowing profile of Jian Ghomeshi after radio star accused of sex abuse Winnipeg woman charged with hiding six dead babies in storage locker defrauded neighbour to pay debts Syrian rebels defect to Al-Qaeda after receiving weapons from U.S. to fight ISIS, Assad Jian Ghomeshi's journey: From immigrant's son to cultural icon to pariah Montreal woman 'pushed by the weight of her conscience' returns stolen artifact to Pompeii after 50 years Canada launches first air strikes against ISIS: CF-18 fighter jets drop laser-guided bombs on targets in Iraq Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic accused of ignoring warning signs ahead of deadly SpaceShipTwo crash Inside the capital of 'New Russia': Once a bustling, wealthy city, Donetsk is now a ghost town 'Why the hell are you sleeping in?' Daylight saving time as controversial as when clocks first changed 98 years ago Lawyers criticize Tories' victim's rights bill that would give judges power to let witnesses testify anonymously Jian Ghomeshi scandal becoming a tipping point for anger over mistreatment of women Nik Wallenda survives blindfolded tightrope walk between Chicago skyscrapers Stephen Harper tours Francois Hollande around Banff in first Western Canada visit by any French president 'Doesn't seem right': Abortion clinics in U.S. and Montreal are seeing a spike in New Brunswick women Police ask public for Jian Ghomeshi videos, photographs or chat logs in ongoing investigation Posted Toronto Political Panel: SmartTrack delays could dent credibility of John Tory's overall agenda A leap of faith took them to the Yukon. Now a bear attack has left their adopted community reeling The world needs to break its addiction to oil, coal and gas by end of this century: UN climate change report Government blatantly Photoshopped U.S. images of the iconic Canadarm to include 'Canada' logo The Jian Ghomeshi scandal so far Q producer who alleges Ghomeshi threatened to 'hate f---' her says she complained to boss in 2010 Ottawa professor facing extradition over anti-Semitic bombing in Paris asks top court to hear his appeal Ghoncheh Ghavami, the woman jailed in Iran after trying to attend a volleyball match, sentenced to a year in prison: lawyer Stephen Harper unveils income splitting tax break for Canadian families with children under 18 Ontario Liberals to introduce updated version of sex education curriculum pulled in 2010 over religious objections Journalists charged $60,000 to cover Obama’s tour of Asia, Australia — and that's just for flightsNew Brunswick blasted with first snowstorm of the year, 30 centimetres expected SpaceShipTwo crash may be death-knell for Richard Branson’s dream of sending rich people into space CBSA trying to deport Toronto man who is allegedly an 'integral member' of Pakistani terrorist group Canada won't issue visas to residents of countries with widespread Ebola Canadian actress alleges Jian Ghomeshi slapped and choked her at his home Peter Kuitenbrouwer: Appreciating Toronto through the eyes of a Montrealer In Jian Ghomeshi scandal's wake, Carleton launches review of interns it sent to CBC Is Turkey the next terror target? Observers see growing links to extremism Russia warns it's coming for the Arctic's oil, including an area Canada claims as its own Ukraine denounces 'pseudo-elections' held in regions controlled by pro-Russia rebels It can save lives, and also kill people — ten things to know about daylight saving time


Topics: News, World, Burkina Faso, Isaac Zida






blog comments powered by Disqus














World Videos  
Visit site »

BattlefrontRaid on Canada 

Faces of WarRemembering Sepoy Khan VC and Muslims who fought in the trenches for Britain 

Home FrontOpinion: Let’s not forget Remembrance Day 

After the WarThis year’s poppy campaign will have special meaning (with video) 





 Powered by WordPress.com VIP




Our Partners



Infomart




The Province




Vancouver Sun




Edmonton Journal




Calgary Herald






Regina Leader-Post




Saskatoon StarPhoenix




Windsor Star




Ottawa Citizen




Montreal Gazette





Classifieds



Remembering




Celebrating




Classifieds Marketplace




Workopolis




FlyerCity




Classifieds Self-Service





Services



Advertise with us




Subscribe




Subscriber Services




ePaper




Newsletters




Site map





Legal



Privacy




Terms




Contact us




Copyright & permissions





Connect with Us



Twitter




Facebook




LinkedIn




Pinterest





© 2014 National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.





 


Follow

Follow “National Post | News”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 10,920 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com















































