Why Is There Unrest in Burkina Faso? – The Short Answer - WSJ 

Why Is There Unrest in Burkina Faso? – The Short Answer - WSJ









WSJ

WSJ
Facebook
Twitter





Live

Live



MarketWatch

MarketWatch



Barron's

Barron's



WSJ+

WSJ+



Product X

Product X









djx


rt


f


r&c


pe&vc


wsj


b






More


WSJ Briefcase


Portfolio


BigCharts


Financial News


Professor Journal


SmartMoney


Student Journal


Virtual Stock Exchange


WSJ Classifieds


WSJ Classroom


WSJ Radio


WSJ Wine








SEARCH









	
 
	
			
			
			
					
					
						
							headline
						
						
							
							   goldman
							
												
					
				
					
					
						
							Companies
						
						
							
								
									GOLD
								
								
									Ran
									gold Resources Ltd. ADS
								
								
									U.S.
								
							
												
														
				
			
			
				
					
						View All Search Results »
					
				
			
			
		









The Wall Street Journal



Menu



HomePage
World
U.S.
New York
Business
Tech
Markets
Market Data
Opinion
Life & Culture
Real Estate
Management
CIO Journal
CFO Journal
Risk & Compliance





 
 
 
 


Also in WSJ.com:

Latest News
Today's Paper
Most Popular
Streams (TBD)
Video
Blogs

Editions

U.S.
Asia
Europe


América Latina (Spanish)
Brasil (Portuguese)
??-?? (Simplified Chinese)
??-?? (Traditional Chinese)
?? (Japanese)
?? (Korean)
Indonesia (Bahasa)
India (English)
Deutschland (German)
Russian (Russian)
Türkiye (Turkish)












Log In









Profile
My News
Saved
Portfolio
Old Portfolio
Customize Watchlist


Newsletters & Alerts
Community
Customer Center
LOGOUT



 









Message Center ( new)







 




Agence France-Presse/Getty Images




The Short Answer
Why Is There Unrest in Burkina Faso?






7:50 am EST
Oct 31, 2014


By
Drew Hinshaw




share





 





Burkina Faso’s army has seized power in the landlocked West African nation after protesters burned government buildings in the capital Ouagadougou over President Blaise Compaore’s plan to extend his 27-year rule. Why is the unrest happening?
(Update: Burkina Faso president steps down).





Why is there unrest in Burkina Faso?
For 27 years, Burkina Faso has been ruled by a single individual: Blaise Compaore, who took power in a 1987 military overthrow.
Under his watch, the landlocked, desert country has been a remarkably tranquil corner in the chaotic Sahara, and the president won back-to-back-to-back-to-back elections by upwards of 80%.
And yet anger has been simmering. Like a lot of African nations, Burkina Faso is increasingly an urban country, full of young people who crave the perks of metropolitan  life–jobs, spending money, to travel–that they aren’t getting. The capital, a lovely town called Ouagadougou full of art deco architecture, is Africa’s fastest-growing major city, according to a United Nations report. The streets are lined with young men selling phone cards, used clothing and snacks, and who expected more from their move to the big city.














What's been happening?
Mr. Compaore wanted to run for a fifth term, and possibly more, and asked his legislature to approve a law that would let him do that, Thursday.
Instead, a huge throng of people went berserk. They broke into parliament, and set the building on fire. They did the same to the city hall, to the headquarters of Mr. Compaore’s political party, and to a number of businesses perceived as allied to him.
The army now says it’s running the country, and will hold elections sometime in the next 12 months. A coup is not the outcome most protestors were looking for, and some say they’re going to continue to push until a civilian leadership is in charge.




What's the global relevance?
By the end of the 21st century, one out of every three people will be African, according to a United Nations projection. That population boom will shape the world, probably, but it’s already shaping out-of-the-way nations like Burkina Faso.
Half of the country’s 17 million people are 17 or younger. Half of Africa’s 1 billion people are 18 or younger.
But Africa’s leaders, many of them, hail from a different generation, and grew up when Africa was still a continent of villages, mostly, before the cities like Ouagadougou exploded. The generation gap is a recipe for more upheaval like what’s happening today in Burkina Faso.




What's been the U.S.'s diplomatic approach?
The U.S. has opposed Mr. Compaore’s bid for a fifth term, privately lecturing him to step down. But the U.S. is also opposed to an immediate and extra-constitutional change of power, as many enraged protestors want (Mr. Compaore was democratically elected). A coup would mean the end of significant U.S. aid to this impoverished nation.
(Latest news: Army seizes power in Burkina Faso).






share





 





							More The Short Answer
						



The Short AnswerThese Tricksters Earn Their Treats
 

The Short AnswerWhat Do Changes to the U.K. Leverage Ratio Mean?
 

The Short AnswerIndia's 'Black Money'
 

The Short AnswerWhy is Switzerland Voting on Its Gold Holdings?



The Short AnswerFiat Banks on Ferrari
 

The Short AnswerMichael Sata's Legacy and Zambia's Future














	copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | User Agreement











close

Email This







								Recipient's Email Address (Separate multiple address with commas)






								Your Email Address
							




								Message (Optional)






								Send me a copy
							






or Cancel












close

Thank You
Your email has been sent.









close

Error.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
			  	Please try again.
			  	





• Invalid email address.
• You can't enter more than 20 emails.
• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.
• Must enter an email address.
• You must enter the verification code below to send.
• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.






































