Campaoré‘s 27 year hold on Burkina Fasso ends | euronews, news + 
Campaoré‘s 27 year hold on Burkina Fasso ends | euronews, news +










Close

Log in
Please enter your login details


Username
Password
Log in or Join the euronews community
Have you forgotten your password?





Skip to main content







English
Ελληνικά
Français
Magyar
Deutsch
Italiano
Español
Português
Polski
Pусский
Українська
Türkçe
عــربي
فارسی



 03/11/2014





















euronews


News
European Affairs
Business
Special Reports
Sport
Culture
no comment
Sci-tech
Travel
In vogue



Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Middle East


Weather
Extras
All Programmes















homeNewsNews +Campaoré‘s 27 year hold on Burkina Fasso ends 








Newsnews +

Campaoré‘s 27 year hold on Burkina Fasso ends
31/10 21:28 CET


 

Alaeddin Boroujerdi: US responsible for ISIL creation30/10 20:36
Washington on Ukraine: ‘one big opportunity for serious reforms’28/10 20:42
Prosecutor explains significance of anti-Mafia trial28/10 20:36
Ukraine election: Yuriy Lutsenko tells euronews about coalition talks27/10 20:30
Russian view on Ukrainian elections: ‘beware nationalism’27/10 20:29
Ukraine elections likely to fuel tension between Kyiv and Moscow24/10 12:04
EU – Ukraine: False expectations23/10 20:52
Kharkiv ‘never had eastern-western conflicts’23/10 14:51
Team Juncker set to take over EU helm22/10 18:37
Kurdistan asks West to sustain, expand support to fight ISIL22/10 18:35
No solution ‘in battle between Spanish and Catalan nationalism’14/10 18:47
Eurozone growth fears dominate IMF annual gathering10/10 21:03
Hong Kong protests ‘will not’ affect Beijing’s control much09/10 17:13
Christians of Iraq backed strongly from France08/10 18:13
Ebola fear in Spain, ‘health officials should quit’07/10 19:20
Hong Kong: youths demand free voice in future02/10 21:09
New NATO chief vows to defend Turkey01/10 22:27
Catalonia pushes for change, Madrid pushes back29/09 19:30
Is a divided Belgium looking towards Scotland for independence inspiration?17/09 17:52
Doing business in Russia, despite the economic sanctions12/09 20:11
 

 









 Burkina Faso is the latest African nation to catch fire, even if here this is a rare event in a relatively peaceful corner of West Africa. A day of violence and total confusion has it seems left the people in command of the streets, and determined to fight for their constitutional rights in Burkina, the “Land of honest men”. 
President Blaise Campaore, after 27 years in power, went too far and has resigned, perhaps surprised by the strength of public opinion the media gave him no inkling of. Giving in to the protesters’ demands was not enough. He had to go.  
In 1983, Blaise Campaoré was a loyal lieutenant of Captain Thomas Sankara when he took power in a coup. Sankara was a revolutionary looking to cut dependency on France. He renamed Upper Volta Burkina Fasso and set out to make it self-sufficient. Campaoré argued with him and with covert backing from the west took over after Sankara was assassinated. Campaoré has always denied involvement.
Campaoré played the good dog and obeyed his former colonial masters in Paris, notably in La Baule in 1990 when alongside President François Mitterrand and facing a hall of African leaders, he said “there is no development without democracy, and there’s no democracy without development.”   
As president he pressed ahead with democratic reforms, writing a new constitution, fostering multi-party politics, and free elections. This didn’t stop him from getting re-elected three times in a row with scores that would have raised an eyebrow in a dictatorship. 
During this time the country has suffered. It is one the 10 least-developed nations in the world, and one of the poorest. Eighty percent of the population  lives off agriculture, and more than 40 percent live in poverty.This has all been silently bottled up until recently.
Until now Campaoré had been popular. He was a patriarch, a “big man” but despite being tainted by formenting a coup and being friendly with some ambigious allies he was able to find a role on the world diplomatic stage. For the West he was the go-to guy when mediation was needed in regional conflicts, such as in Mali or Ivory Coast. 
To find out more about the background to events, euronews spoke to Georges Dougueli, a journalist at French weekly “Jeune Afrique”
Sophie Desjardin, euronews
Georges Dougueli, youve been closely following events in Burkina Faso. The situation there seems confused and explosive.
We’ve seen scenes of angry people and destruction but not a brutal repression: is this normal in Africa? What can we understand about this country? 
Georges Dougueli, journalist, Jeune Afrique
We knew very well that part of the army would not understand  the president’s move that he made on October 21, leading to the revision of the constitution. We can see that the army, which is closer to the protesters,  refused to fire on the people who took to the streets. We can also understand that some of the friends of the president sided with the protesters. That is a development that was quite predictable when you look at the last years of policy in Burkina Faso.
euronews
Blaise Compaore has been in power for 27 years and has often ruled in a questionable way. Attempting to change the constitution in order to stay in power was the last straw. But why did people in Burkina Faso  not react earlier? 
Georges Douguel
Up until now he has respected the laws of the land. But now, because of this attempt to go against the popular will, they have come together to demonstrate and prevent parliament from carrying out this change.
euronews
Is there a credible successor to Compaore? 
Georges Douguel
There are a lot, among the opposition there are lots of people who could take over.
There’s Roch Marc Kabore,  who was once very close to Compaore, but  left the CDP, the leading party, and formed an opposition party. 
There’s also Salif Diallo and the veteran opposition politician Ablassé Ouedraogo or 
Simon Compaoré…. There are several major personalities in Burkina Faso who could run the country after Blaise Compaoré
euronews
Do you see in what is happening in Burkina Faso spreading in a kind of African spring? 
Georges Douguel
Yes, what is happened in Burkina could lead to a snowball effect, a kind of African spring. The next country on the list could be the Republic of Congo because  the President has not yet decided, or stated if he wants to stay on in power by changing the constitution. Also in Benin there is a chance they will amend the constitutional limitation. Both these countries, you never know, could go through a similar scenario.Copyright © 2014 euronewsMore about: Burkina Faso President Protest Resignation





JavaScript is required in order to view this article’s accompanying video









More on the same theme
 





                                    Army chief seizes power in Burkina Faso after president resigns                                







                                    President of Burkina Faso resigns, calls for elections                                







                                    Burkina Faso: military power push after president resigns                                







                                    Burkina Faso: Protesters denounce military takeover and demand…                                

 
Check out today's top stories




 


                                                                03/11 12:32 CET                            

                                At least 24 migrants dead after boat sinks in Bosphorus Strait in Istanbul                            



 


                                                                03/11 13:00 CET                            

                                Rebel vote in east Ukraine returns pro-Russian separatist leaders                            



 


                                                                03/11 00:17 CET                            

                                Gunshots at Burkina Faso state TV as army tightens its grip on power                            


more...




















euronews LIVE
euronews RADIO
Latest Bulletin



London,  United Kingdom



51°F
11°C

                   /
                   
46°F
8°C


More Weather…










Most Viewed
Most shared




TodayYesterday7 Days
1PM Ponta tipped to come out on top in Romania presidential election
2Ukraine’s rebels open school doors to Russian education
3Romanian PM Victor Ponta heads presidential poll
4Rebels back separatist leaders in east Ukraine vote
5Gunshots at Burkina Faso state TV as army tightens its grip on power1Turkish president Erdogan unveils his new palace of a thousand rooms
2Lawsuit filed for children of passenger on missing MH370
3PM Ponta tipped to come out on top in Romania presidential election
4Ponta in driving seat as Romania picks a new president
5Kurds worldwide march in solidarity with Kobani1Turkish president Erdogan unveils his new palace of a thousand rooms
2Sweden becomes first EU country to recognise the Palestinian State
3Transcript of hanged Iranian woman’s final message released
4NATO accuses Russian bombers of flying close to its airspace
5Lawsuit filed for children of passenger on missing MH370




Facebook
Twitter














1euronews live TV - News | euronews : the latest international news as video on demand2Sweden becomes first EU country to recognise the Palestinian State | euronews, world news3Turkish president Erdogan unveils his new palace of a thousand rooms | euronews, world news4International tv news | euronews: European and International tv news bulletin5Revealed: Europe’s capital cities where it’s hardest to be a foreigner | euronews, world news6All you need to know about the Ebola virus | euronews, world news7How nasheeds became the soundtrack of jihad | euronews, world news8Where is the best place in Europe for women? | euronews, world news9Sweden becomes first European nation to recognise Palestine | euronews, world news10What to expect in “The World of Ice and Fire,” George R.R. Martin’s new book | euronews, world news11Ebola: Six new suspected cases in Spain | euronews, world news12European Union News | euronews: latest breaking news and headlines about European Union13International news | euronews, latest international news14International breaking news | euronews online world breaking news in video15euronews apps : iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows Phone 8, Windows 8, Nokia S40, Nokia Asha, Smart TV and Google Glass16Learning through “serious games” | euronews, learning world17US says ISIL makes $1 million-a-day selling oil – even to enemies | euronews, world news18Philippe Starck: ‘Words like longevity and legacy have become almost avant-garde’ | euronews, the global conversation19Transcript of hanged Iranian woman’s final message released | euronews, world news20Femen protest in Kiev against Navalny verdict | euronews, no comment 
















Podcast


iPhone, Android, Windows Phone 8... 


Wires > News
14:53 CET  Suicide blast kills 23 during Nigerian Shi’ite ceremony – witnesses
14:44 CET  Corpse found in Costa Concordia wreck thought to be final victim
14:36 CET  U.N.‘s Ban warns against quarantining Ebola health workers
14:21 CET  India, Pakistan lower flag at border ceremony day after deadly…
14:14 CET  Saudi Arabia mobilises clergy and media against jihadi recruitment
13:51 CET  Pro-Russian rebels name leader in Ukraine as crisis deepens
13:50 CET  Spy agencies averted more deaths in Pakistan-India border bomb -…
12:43 CET  At least 24 migrants die as boat sinks in Black Sea near Istanbul










euronews


News
European Affairs
Business
Special Reports
Sport
Culture
no comment
Sci-tech
Travel
In vogue















 Facebook
Twitter
 Google+
VK
 Tumblr
 Podcast
 YouTube

 DailyMotion




NewsAfricaAmericasAsiaEuropeMiddle EastBusinessSpecial ReportsSportCultureSci-techTravelIn vogueNews 24NewsWiresArchivesA - Z Site Indexeuronews LIVEeuronews RADIOLatest BulletinWeatherPicture of the dayno commentyouGet euronews onSmartphoneTabletComputerSmart TVSmartwatchGoogle GlassExtraseuronews apps : iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows Phone 8, Windows 8, Nokia S40, Nokia Asha, Smart TV and Google Glasseurovibesfeedbackpodcastrssbusiness guideeuronews radio: the podcastAll ProgrammesLatest programsno commentEuropele maghi-techrendez-voussciencespaceinterviewfuturiscinemametropolitansmusicareporterfocusmarketsterra vivainnovationlearning worldi talku talkbusiness weeklythe networknews +europe weeklythe stationPress ConferenceAdvertisingDistributionPartnersEU CoveragecommunityJobsContact euronewsTerms & Conditionscookies Copyright © euronews 2014





 











