Burkina Faso Bans Hunting for Bats over Ebola Fears 
Burkina Faso Bans Hunting for Bats over Ebola Fears
BellaNaijaInspired! 



 
Home
News
Features
Events
Music
Movies & TV
Style
Beauty
Weddings
Career
Relationships
Living
Inspired!
Burkina Faso Bans Hunting for Bats over Ebola Fears
07.08.2014  at 4:13 pm By NAN 9 Comments 
Ouagadougou (Xinhua/NAN) ─ Burkina Faso’s Ministry of Environment on Thursday in Ouagadougou announced the outright ban on special hunting for bats, the main carrier of Ebola virus.
It said the special hunt for bats which began on July 1 to Aug. 31 has been suspended across the national territory due to risks associated with Ebola fever.
The statement said this has become imperative because the Ebola virus is caused by a virus transmitted to human beings through bats or rats.
It said it is very contagious and transmitted through direct contact with patients, infected body fluids as well as cloths of those infected with the disease.
The health ministry said even though no case has so far been reported in Burkina Faso, but the measures had been put in place to counter any eventual outbreak of the disease. 
Photo Credit: Paul Kennedy/Dreamstime.com
About NANThe News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) was established by the Federal Government of Nigeria in May 1976  to gather and distribute news on Nigeria and cover events of interest to Nigeria at the international level for the benefit of the Nigerian Media and the Public.
Tagged With: Burkina Faso, Ebola Virus, OuagadougouFiled Under: News  


 








love this
+

Comment  9



 


« Stand against Cervical & Breast Cancer with Waje, Exquisite Magazine & More at the 2014 EMAC WalkJude Okoye’s Wedding, Ebola, MBGN 2014 Iheoma Nnadi – Google Nigeria’s Top Searches for July 2014 »

Related Posts




						Burkina Faso Crisis: President ...					






						“Gay Apple CEO Tim Cook ...					






						U.S. “deeply ...					






						Blackmailers Threaten to ...					






9 Comments
				 on Burkina Faso Bans Hunting for Bats over Ebola Fears 


 

4tunechuks
August 7, 2014 at 4:27 pm


lwkmd……….what else do you expect???



Love this! 0

Reply 





 

iba
August 7, 2014 at 11:43 pm


I really dont get it. Just seeing that picture alone, i got goose pimples. Why would anyone want to eat that creature? why oh why? 
But then again i cant judge, someone will look at me tomorrow and wonder why i’d want to swallow eba.



Love this! 2

Reply 







 

I go dey laff
August 7, 2014 at 5:27 pm


All d bats now are rejoicing…..



Love this! 2

Reply 





 

Amira
August 7, 2014 at 5:56 pm


And what did our own ministry of Health do to prevent an outbreak? NOTHING! No information, no preventive measures prior, no ‘checks a the borders and airports. NOTHING. What a country we live in. Msheew



Love this! 1

Reply 





 

mulikat
August 7, 2014 at 6:04 pm


Let me ask 1 question,my people what meat is in bats for God sake.i see no reason human eat bats,have never know on till Ebola out break i here they eat bats,i have hard about all kinds of  Monkey families,they eat them in centre africa country.



Love this! 2

Reply 





 

ty
August 7, 2014 at 6:38 pm


Muliks baby… dis your “Engris” tian



Love this! 1

Reply 





 

Eje
August 8, 2014 at 2:07 am


@Mulikat that is what i was wondering too. Chaiiiiiiiii Africans. Is there something we won’t eat. My goodness gracious. BATS!!!!!!!!!!!!! HABA!!! And you would think with this ebola wahala that people would not even have to be warned to stop eating it but unfortunately no. I saw a vid recently of liberians instead boasting that it was not gonna stop them from eating bat meat. I just shuddered at how we just can be sooooo damn ignorant as a people and stubborn to our own demise.



Love this! 2

Reply 







 

ade
August 7, 2014 at 9:08 pm


lmaoooooo, u r too funny



Love this! 1

Reply 





 

makeupbyebi
August 8, 2014 at 9:23 am


Bats?? Why do they hunt bats? is it cultural? spiritual? nutritional purposes? some please educate us about the practices of West Africans    cos i honestly dont want to believe someone can make bat a delicacy #unhealtymealsturnglobalepidermic



Love this! 0

Reply 




Post a comment


 
 

Name



Email



Website







Cancel reply 




 
 
 


 









 



    Custom Search
  








 


 Recently
Borno to Reopen Public schools on November 17thUN Urges End to Impunity for Crimes Against JournalistsRichard Mofe-Damijo, Rukky Sanda, Yemi Alade, Desmond Elliot, Ramsey Nouah & More at the ’30 Days in Atlanta’ Movie PremiereGunmen Free Over 100 Inmates from Kogi PrisonGet your Taste Buds Excited! Check Out the New Fanta Apple Flavour Drink 




 



 



 

 



 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 







 



 
 


 

MicoStar Mall – The Safest Way To Shop Abroad From Nigeria


 





Martwayne… Turning your Love for Fashion into a Viable Business.


 





Bank With Us at UBA!!!


 





Getting Married Soon? Receive the Perfect Gifts for FREE!


 





MOOFA Fashion Design School. Call 08054076944


 





Two Different Locations, Same Great Quality Services


 





All You Need for Your WEDDING @ Treasurebox Bridals Lagos


 





Order Your Phone Accessories Online now and Pay on Delivery


 





The Wedding Room is a Personal Bridal Event Happening in Abuja


 





Get the Trendy and In Wears at Byge Collections – 07038845306


 





Order Gadgets, Appliances and Fashion on gidimall.com! Nationwide Delivery.


 





Nigeria’s Ultimate Wedding Resource


 





New Arrivals + 60% Off Existing Items (Personal Shopper: 08098726502)


 





Weaves, Wigs, Rugs, Souvenirs, Jewelry, Rechargeable Fans. BB 7E478CD9. Tel 08124183827


 





Providing Excellent and Bespoke Accommodation Services for the Priviledged Elite.


 





Chyme & MI In Oshe The Movie! Features DJ Sose.


 



Subscribe to BN via Email!
Enter your email address:Delivered by FeedBurner
Recent Comments
D on Atoke’s Monday Morning Banter: It’s The Thought That Countsanonymous on Explosion Rocks Yobe Today | Scores Feared DeadTA on Atoke’s Monday Morning Banter: It’s The Thought That CountsRuby on Should You Bump This – Music Review: M.I – ChairmanSarah on GTBank Lagos Fashion & Design Week – Day 4: Bridget Awosika 


  


 
© 2014 Bella Naija. All rights reserved

 |  About Us
 |  The Team
 |  Copyright
 |  Terms And Conditions
 |  Privacy Policy













 
 MENU






 
HomeNewsFeaturesEventsMusicMovies & TVStyleBeautyWeddingsCareerRelationshipsLivingInspired!









 



    Custom Search
  











