Burkina Faso army appoints transitional leader after president quit | Toronto Star  
Burkina Faso army appoints transitional leader after president quit | Toronto Star





































Monday, November 3, 2014
9:12 AM EST





the star.com
World







Search the archives



















Home

News

GTA
Queen's Park
Canada
World
Investigations
Crime



Your Toronto

City Nights
Schools
The Fixer
Reviews
Traffic



Opinion

Editorials
Commentary
Readers' Letters
Public Editor
Corrections
Editorial Cartoon



Sports

Hockey
Baseball
Basketball
Football
Soccer
Amateur
Tennis
Golf
Figure Skating
Curling
Lacrosse



Business

Economy
Personal Finance
Tech News
Real Estate



Entertainment

Television
Movies
Stage
Music
Books
Visual Arts



Life

Technology
Food & Wine
Travel
Fashion & Style
Homes
Health & Wellness
Parent



Autos


Photos


Diversions

Classifieds
Obituaries







Inside the Star





Bike that crossed Canada stolen outside Toronto bar





Our kids, our future and two competing visions for voters: Tim Harper





Does Canada Border Services Agency need oversight?







News 
  				
  			/ World


Burkina Faso army appoints transitional leader after president quit
Lt. Col. Isaac Yacouba Zida unanimously chosen by the military to oversee period of transition. 







Share on Facebook


Tweet

















A
A


 




Report an Error





Link to video








Share via Email
Print



























Burkina Faso's army on Saturday backed a military officer's claim to lead the country's transition to democratic elections, as the ousted president Blaise Compaore took refuge in neighbouring Ivory Coast. Duration: 00:57








				ISSOUF SANOGO
				/ AFP/GETTY IMAGES

                
			

				Burkina Faso's Lieutenant-Colonel Isaac Zida attends a press briefing at the end of a meeting with the country's military commanders at the military headquarters in Ouagadougou on Saturday. Burkina Faso's army announced it named Zida to lead a transition government for a "period of transition” and its “form and duration will be determined later.”
			









By:
Brahima Ouedraogo
Associated Press,
 Published on Sat Nov 01 2014





















      Photos
        View photos




zoom







OUAGADOUGOU, BURKINA FASO—Burkina Faso’s army appointed a military colonel as transitional leader on *Saturday, it said, after the West African country’s president resigned from 27 years in office amid violent protests against his continued power.
Lt. Col. Isaac Yacouba Zida was unanimously appointed by the army to lead Burkina Faso, the army said in a declaration. “The period of transition” and its “form and duration will be determined later,” said the declaration that was drafted and signed after senior officers met with the joint chief of staff Saturday.
Blaise Compaore resigned Friday after protesters stormed parliament and set the building ablaze following two days of violent demonstrations against his bid to amend the constitution to stand next year for another term. His move left the impoverished West African country in a state of uncertainty, and both Joint Chief of Staff Gen. Honore Traore and Zida had made remarks that they were in power.
Compaore, his family and those close to him had been taken in by Ivory Coast, according to a statement from the office of President Alassane Ouattara. It did not elaborate. It said Ouattara was following events “with particular attention.”
Earlier Saturday, Zida said that the president’s resignation amid violent street protests was an “insurrection” and not a coup, and that Compaore and a top aide were both safe.
“Starting today I will assume all the responsibilities of this transition and of head of state,” he said in an announcement carried on radio early Saturday.
Zida was the second in command of the president’s security regiment. Having been in Burkina Faso’s ranks for more than two decades, Zida is close to the president and appreciated by lower ranking soldiers.
Zida called on the international community including the African Union to “support our people during this difficult ordeal.” He had announced that the country’s borders had been closed, a transitional committee had been set up and the constitution had been suspended.
Gen. Traore, the joint chief of staff, had on Friday told reporters that he would assume the presidency until elections were called, so Lt. Col. Zida’s declaration Saturday caused initial confusion.
Over the course of several dramatic hours, Compaore, 63, went from looking likely to jam through parliament a bill that would let him seek a fifth term to agreeing to step down next year to abandoning office immediately.
The quick succession of events took many by surprise, since Compaore had long out-manoeuvred his adversaries and has in recent years become an important regional mediator. Burkina Faso hosts French special forces and serves as an important ally of both France and the United States in the fight against Islamic militants in West Africa.
The United States called on Burkina Faso’s military to follow “the constitutionally mandated process for the transfer of power and holding of democratic elections.”
“We condemn any attempts by the military or other parties to take advantage of the situation for unconstitutional gain and call on all parties to respect the people’s support for the democratic process,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said.
Compaore first came to power following the October 1987 coup against then-President Thomas Sankara, Compaore’s longtime friend and political ally who was killed in the power grab.
While he was respected on the international stage, critics noted that, under Compaore’s semi-authoritarian rule, the country of 18 million people remained mired in poverty. The landlocked country’s fortunes rise and fall with gold and cotton prices — and adequate rain in a region plagued by drought.






More on thestar.com








Five Manitoba cabinet ministers quit over premier who doesn’t listen









British banker charged in murders that shock Hong Kong









Read more about:
Burkina Faso, Africa

















































Top News





								
								
								Students were warned away from Q internships: professor



								
								
								Child-care advocates say parents have clear choice in next federal election comments



								
								
								More action sought to stop suicide in Canadacomments



Updated
								Terminally ill woman ends her life, as planned, under assisted-suicide lawcomments



NEW
								Dozens feared dead after migrant boat sinks off Istanbul



NEW
								Bridging the digital divide: Students teach seniors how to be tech savvy comments



NEW
								British banker charged in murders that shock Hong Kong



								
								
								Canadian warplanes launch first airstrike against Islamic State 







commercial promo






commercial promo






commercial promo






commercial promo





Partner ContentPlaces to Grow: The reshaping of the GTA






The Kit Q&A: J.Crew perfumer Carlos Huber






The high cost of taking money out of your RRSP: Mayers 






Further education students need to plan ahead for cost 






Toronto.com: Must-See November Events















World stories map
All the countries from which the Star has reported since late 2011.







The World Daily blog
The Star's foreign desk covers the best stories from the around the globe.













On Twitter











Popular Photo Galleries






Photos


News | Toronto Star
The Oscar Pistorius trial in photos



Photos


News | Toronto Star
It's all happening at the Zoo



Photos


News | Toronto Star
Brazilians mourn Eduardo Campos





























Back to Mobile


 





















































thestar.com

News
Your Toronto
Opinion
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Life
Diversions
Classifieds
Site Map




 

Wheels.ca
Insurance Hotline
New in Homes
Star Store
Blogs
Contests
Lottery Results
Obituaries
Corrections
Public Editor
Behavioural Targeting
Today's News




Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd.

About
Atkinson Principles
Statement of Principles
Get Home Delivery
My Subscription
Contact Us
Contact Webmaster
FAQ
News Releases
Star Internships
Careers @ the Star




Advertise with us

Advertising Terms
Mediakit
Online Advertising
Print Advertising
Special Features




Initiatives

Santa Claus Fund
Fresh Air Fund
Speakers Bureau
Classroom Connection
Pages of the Past
Report on Community Giving




Connect with Us

RSS feeds
Twitter Updates
News Alerts
Newsletters
Mobile Devices





© Copyright Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd. 1996-2014

Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy

































