  Burkina Faso’s president ends 27-year reign after protesters set parliament on fire | National Post 

  Burkina Faso’s president ends 27-year reign after protesters set parliament on fire | National Post














 National Post
HomeFinancial PostNewsCommentPersonal FinanceInvestingTechSportsArtsLifeHealthHomesDrivingClassifiedsJobsSubscribeNewsWorldIsrael & The Middle East






World




TRENDINGGhomeshi | Income splitting | Ottawa | Magnotta | ISIS | Ford | NHL | SpaceShipTwo
Burkina Faso’s president ends 27-year reign after protesters set parliament on fireBrahima Ouedraogo, Associated Press | October 31, 2014 | Last Updated: Oct 31 1:19 PM ETMore from Associated Press





Twitter

Google+


LinkedIn


Email


Comments
More



Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Digg
FarkIt
StumbleUpon


OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso — An army general took power in Burkina Faso Friday after President Blaise Compaore stepped down, ending his 27 year rule of the West African country.
Army Gen. Honore Traore, the joint chief of staff, has assumed power, state radio announced.
Compaore was forced out of office by a burst of violent protests in which parliament was set ablaze. The protesters refused to accept anything short of Compaore’s immediate resignation.

RelatedBurkina Faso’s president moves to extend his 27-year reign — protesters set fire to parliament
Opposition protesters gathered in a square in the capital burst into cheers when they heard the announcement of Compaore’s resignation on hand-held radios. They had been massing for a second day to push for Compaore to leave after their unrest had already persuaded the longtime leader not to run again for election.
“I declare that I’m leaving power in order to have a free and transparent election in 90 days,” said Compaore in a statement read out on television and radio stations. “For my part, I think I have fulfilled my duty.”
Compaore, 63, said he decided to leave power “in light of the severely deteriorated sociopolitical situation and the threat of division in our national army and out of a desire to preserve the peace.”

With the parliament and the government dissolved a day earlier, the military, which has had a visible role in this crisis, stepped into the vacuum.
Meanwhile, Compaore was headed south to the city of Po, near the border with Ghana, a French diplomatic official said on condition of anonymity, citing the sensitivity of the situation. He is still in Burkina Faso, and it was not clear if he was trying to cross, the official said. He had not asked the French, who were once the country’s colonial rulers, for any help.
For months, an opposition coalition has been urging Compaore not to seek re-election for what would have been his fifth term in power. But Compaore and his ruling party looked set to push a bill through parliament on Thursday that would have allowed him to run again.

Determined to block the vote, protesters stormed the building, the vote was suspended and the military announced the legislature had been dissolved and a transition government would be formed. After that, Compaore said he would lead until the new elections.
But protesters rejected that plan and gathered again Friday, demanding that Compaore step down immediately.
It was a dramatic turn of events for one of Africa’s longest serving leaders who has survived other attempts to topple him.
Compaore first came to power following the October 1987 coup against then-President Thomas Sankara, Compaore’s longtime friend and political ally who was killed in the power grab.

And for many, his legacy begins and ends with the death of Sankara, a well-regarded statesman whose death was widely viewed as a setback for the entire continent.
But Compaore has reinvented himself many times over the years. As a young man, he was in the military. He became justice minister when troops stormed Ouagadougou in 1983 and installed Sankara as president. After he took power in his own coup, he developed a reputation as a meddler and a supporter of regional conflicts.
He openly supported Charles Taylor, the Liberian warlord turned president, though he denied active involvement in the Liberian conflict. Compaore also was accused of supporting rebel groups in Ivory Coast and Angola.
But more recently, he has refashioned himself as an elder statesman who brokered electoral disputes and hostage releases throughout West Africa.

Domestically he kept a tight leash on any opposition and never groomed a viable political heir and fought off threats to his power. In 2011, waves of protests washed over Burkina Faso, challenging Compaore’s rule, and mutinous soldiers occupied the palace at one point, forcing the president to flee.
But what would have spelled the end for many presidents was a mere temporary problem for Compaore and he manoeuvred to stay in power by removing his security chiefs and appointing himself defence minister before returning to Ouagadougou.













				Find National Post on Facebook
			






Twitter

Google+


LinkedIn


Email


Comments
More



Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Digg
FarkIt
StumbleUpon



Most Popular

Prev
Next
 British banker charged with two murders, one victim was found in suitcase on balcony of luxury apartment Brittany Maynard, 29-year-old right-to-die advocate with brain cancer, ends her life in Oregon Pittsburgh Post-Gazette publishes glowing profile of Jian Ghomeshi after radio star accused of sex abuse Syrian rebels defect to Al-Qaeda after receiving weapons from U.S. to fight ISIS, Assad Montreal woman 'pushed by the weight of her conscience' returns stolen artifact to Pompeii after 50 years Winnipeg woman charged with hiding six dead babies in storage locker defrauded neighbour to pay debts Canada launches first air strikes against ISIS: CF-18 fighter jets drop laser-guided bombs on targets in Iraq Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic accused of ignoring warning signs ahead of deadly SpaceShipTwo crash Jian Ghomeshi's journey: From immigrant's son to cultural icon to pariah Jian Ghomeshi scandal becoming a tipping point for anger over mistreatment of women 'Why the hell are you sleeping in?' Daylight saving time as controversial as when clocks first changed 98 years ago Lawyers criticize Tories' victim's rights bill that would give judges power to let witnesses testify anonymously Inside the capital of 'New Russia': Once a bustling, wealthy city, Donetsk is now a ghost town Posted Toronto Political Panel: SmartTrack delays could dent credibility of John Tory's overall agenda Stephen Harper tours Francois Hollande around Banff in first Western Canada visit by any French president Nik Wallenda survives blindfolded tightrope walk between Chicago skyscrapers Q producer who alleges Ghomeshi threatened to 'hate f---' her says she complained to boss in 2010 The Jian Ghomeshi scandal so far A leap of faith took them to the Yukon. Now a bear attack has left their adopted community reeling Ghoncheh Ghavami, the woman jailed in Iran after trying to attend a volleyball match, sentenced to a year in prison: lawyer The world needs to break its addiction to oil, coal and gas by end of this century: UN climate change report Government blatantly Photoshopped U.S. images of the iconic Canadarm to include 'Canada' logo CBSA trying to deport Toronto man who is allegedly an 'integral member' of Pakistani terrorist group 'Doesn't seem right': Abortion clinics in U.S. and Montreal are seeing a spike in New Brunswick women SpaceShipTwo crash may be death-knell for Richard Branson’s dream of sending rich people into spaceNew Brunswick blasted with first snowstorm of the year, 30 centimetres expected Journalists charged $60,000 to cover Obama’s tour of Asia, Australia — and that's just for flights Police ask public for Jian Ghomeshi videos, photographs or chat logs in ongoing investigation Ottawa professor facing extradition over anti-Semitic bombing in Paris asks top court to hear his appeal Ontario Liberals to introduce updated version of sex education curriculum pulled in 2010 over religious objections Canada won't issue visas to residents of countries with widespread Ebola Toronto police launch criminal investigation into Jian Ghomeshi after two women come forward Stephen Harper unveils income splitting tax break for Canadian families with children under 18 It can save lives, and also kill people — ten things to know about daylight saving time Canadian actress alleges Jian Ghomeshi slapped and choked her at his home In Jian Ghomeshi scandal's wake, Carleton launches review of interns it sent to CBC Peter Kuitenbrouwer: Appreciating Toronto through the eyes of a Montrealer


Topics: News, World, Blaise Compaore, Burkina Faso, Ouagadougou






blog comments powered by Disqus








Our Partners



Infomart




The Province




Vancouver Sun




Edmonton Journal




Calgary Herald






Regina Leader-Post




Saskatoon StarPhoenix




Windsor Star




Ottawa Citizen




Montreal Gazette





Classifieds



Remembering




Celebrating




Classifieds Marketplace




Workopolis




FlyerCity




Classifieds Self-Service





Services



Advertise with us




Subscribe




Subscriber Services




ePaper




Newsletters




Site map





Legal



Privacy




Terms




Contact us




Copyright & permissions





Connect with Us



Twitter




Facebook




LinkedIn




Pinterest





© 2014 National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.





 


Follow

Follow “National Post | News”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 10,920 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com















































