BBC News - Burkina Faso teachers' strike: Union agrees deal 
BBC News - Burkina Faso teachers' strike: Union agrees deal












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada



















25 May 2011
Last updated at 12:30


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso teachers' strike: Union agrees deal


The protests are the biggest challenge to President Blaise Compaore since he seized power in 1987


Continue reading the main story Related Stories

Burkina Faso army mutiny spreads
Country profile: Burkina Faso
Timeline: Burkina Faso


Teachers and the Burkina Faso government have reached a deal to end a strike which has led to riots.
The government has agreed to all the union's demands for higher allowances.
The deal comes after students staged violent protests in support of the teachers in the western town of Gaoua.
In the latest demonstration against President Blaise Compaore, his official residence in the town was attacked, along with the ruling party offices. Soldiers have also protested this week.
Analysts say this is the biggest challenge to Mr Compaore since he seized power in 1987.
The BBC's Mathieu Bonkoungou in the capital, Ouagadougou, says the schools have not yet re-opened as the unions say they need time to spread the message to their members.
He says there has been no official comment on the protest by soldiers, who fired guns into the air on Monday.
Last month, the police, soldiers, farmers and merchants staged separate protests in different parts of the country to press the government to take action to help them cope with rising prices. 
The economy of landlocked Burkina Faso was badly hit by the crisis in its larger, richer neighbour, Ivory Coast.
After parts of the army mutinied in April, President Compaore sacked the government and appointed himself minister of defence.
Trouble first broke out in February, when a school child was allegedly killed by the police, setting off a wave of demonstrations by students across the country.
One of Africa's poorest countries, Burkina Faso has significant reserves of gold, but cotton production is its economic mainstay.




More on This Story

Related Stories


Burkina Faso army mutiny spreads
18 APRIL 2011, 
                        AFRICA


Country profile: Burkina Faso
19 APRIL 2011, 
                        COUNTRY PROFILES


Timeline: Burkina Faso
19 APRIL 2011, 
                        COUNTRY PROFILES






Related Internet links


Burkina Faso government (in French)




Around the BBC


BBC Africa podcasts


BBC Afrique



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top Stories



Boy given life for murdering teacher


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


Man admits killing his mother, 76,


HSBC reserves $378m in currency probe









Features




My evil dad

What's it like to be the daughter of a serial killer? 	
				  




Champion's fear

Why Chris Boardman won't let his daughter cycle on the road 	
				  




Relaxed grammar

Why typos and spelling mistakes don't really matter 	
				  




Advanced warfare Watch

Will new Call of Duty reinvigorate the franchise?  	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



4: UK Living Wage raised by 20p an hour



5: Teenage poppy seller burned in attack



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



3: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



4: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



5: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



6: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



7: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



8: 
    Viewpoint: 'Why I won't let my eight-year-old cycle on the road'  



9: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



10: 
    Microsoft ends retail sales of Windows 7 and 8  




Video/Audio




1: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Rail staff attacked at London Bridge Watch



5: Call of Duty hopes to thrill gamers Watch



6: Branson: Explosion claims 'hurtful' Watch



7: Is Japan 2020 stadium too big? In 60 secs Watch



8: Safety error' caused Virgin rocket crash Watch



9: Lynda Bellingham funeral takes place Watch



10: Boardman's cycling safety tips Watch























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    













