Burkina Faso's President Declares State Of Emergency Over Protests  
Burkina Faso's President Declares State Of Emergency Over Protests

















		View mobile site	



 


















































 3 November 2014

Huffpost UK
uk






		Edition: uk

Show/Hide





Brasil BR




Canada CA




Deutschland DE




España ES




France FR




Italia IT




日本 (Japan) JP




한국 (Korea) KR




Maghreb MG




United Kingdom UK




United States US










 




Follow





Newsletters





Get UKNewsletters
Email address

Enter Email Address









Huffington Post Search





Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search




























iOS app
Android app
More








 Log in
Create Account





Notifications


0














$USERNAME




Profile


Settings


                                                Logout                                            

















FRONT PAGE


News


Politics








Who's Less Popular, Clegg Or Miliband? Guess Again...
108




Alex Salmond Twists The Knife In Labour
137




Merkel Says Britain 'At Point Of No Return'
403




Alistair Darling Vents Against Scottish Labour As He Says He Will Step Down
0




Here Are 7 Horrifying Facts About Our Economy...
100




Go to Politics




More in Politics

Boris Johnson
Conservatives
Labour Party
Lib Dems
Ukip
Westminster
Mehdi's Morning Memo







Business


Sport








Player Focus: Lukasz Fabianski Proving His Doubters Wrong for Swansea
0




The Southern Ocean
0




Eight Defenders That Top Premier League Clubs Should Look to in January
1




Progressing Lamela Still Struggling to Find His Feet
2




Go to Sport




More in Sport

Transfer Talk
Football
Premier League
Champions League
Man Utd
Liverpool FC
England Football Team
England Cricket Team



You Might Also Like

US Sports







Tech








NASA Finally Has Some Good News
0




Virgin Galactic's SpaceShipTwo 'Crashes'
73




'We Are Human And It Hurts'
1




Branson Pays Tribute To Virgin Galactic Pilots
0




Gadgets Are the Only Gift Worth Giving This Xmas
0




Go to Tech




More in Tech

How To
Buyer's Guides
NASA
Gaming
Space
Apple
Google
Tech Deals



You Might Also Like

TechCrunch
Engadget







Students


Comedy








The Week In (Funny) Pictures
0




Grumpy Cat's Christmas Movie Trailer In 8 Unhappy Moments
0




22 Pets Who Are Completely Unconvinced By Their Halloween Costumes
0




Outside the Box
1




Go to Comedy




More in Comedy

Weird News
Comedy Gossip
Funny Videos
Twitter Funnies
Viral Videos
Funny Animals
Pics & Giggles
TopicaLOL







Entertainment








Was Cheryl Miming On 'The X Factor'?
0




X Factor's Jack Bleeding Love Is Bleeding Awful - So He's Off!
9




'Corrie' Spoiler! Todd Sees His Burn Scars
5




'Stranger On The Shore' Jazz Icon Dies
0




Susanna Suffers MAJOR Fake Tan Fail
24




Go to Entertainment




More in Entertainment

X Factor
Strictly Come Dancing
The Apprentice
Kim Kardashian
Celeb Pics
Baggers Bites
Culture Of Kindness
TV News
TV Reviews
Entertainment Deals







Celebrity


Lifestyle








The Startling Effetcs Of Photoshop Transform Woman From Obese To Slim
5




'I Switch My Phone Off After 9pm' Says Founder Of Hip And Healthy
2




The Movember Foundation and Its Commitment to Men's Mental Health Initiatives in the UK
2




OCD, Men's Health and Movember
4




Go to Lifestyle




More in Lifestyle

Dating & Relationships
Women
Wellbeing
Diet & Fitness
Health
Food
Travel
Third Metric
Men
Parents
Home








BLOGS 







Idris Elba
: The Idea





Stephen Hull
: Introducing HuffPost UK Men





Sadiq Khan
: My Role in Bridging the Gap Between Britain's Muslims and People of All Other Faiths





Jonathan Romain
: The Conversion Merry-Go-Round





Robin Lustig
: This Immoral Government




View all featured blog posts 










UK


Video


Halloween


Ebola


Islamic State


Men


Women


Health


Third Metric


Life Hacks


Impact


Entrepreneurs


Young Talent


Skills Space


Home
























Dad Invites Daughter's Alleged Rapist To Dinner And Tortures Him To Death

2014-11-03 03:13:33







Army Boy Blasted With 'Makeshift Blowtorch' After Selling Poppies

2014-11-02 11:30:49







Miliband, Harman And Clegg May Regret Wearing Their Feminist T Shirts Now

2014-11-02 09:44:44







Another Islamic State Atrocity Is Revealed

2014-11-02 12:03:50







Sickening GRAPHIC Image Shows Islamic State Have Sunk To A New Low

2014-11-01 13:03:41







Injured Virgin Galactic Pilot 'Alert And Talking'

2014-11-02 11:12:42







The Guardian Hits Back After 'Sneering' Poppy Article Backlash

2014-11-01 11:01:39







Scotland Has Changed Its Mind Again About Independence...

2014-11-01 11:47:15







Brits Are Targets When They Travel Abroad, Foreign Office Warns

2014-11-01 05:54:32







Did Ed Give This Beggar Woman Tuppence?

2014-11-01 10:05:04







The Sun Offered Students Thousands For Alan Henning Halloween Costume Photos

2014-11-01 09:09:40







This Video Shows How Canadians React To Islamophobia

2014-10-29 06:42:18







Death Toll Mounting After Bombing At Pakistan-India Border

2014-11-02 09:59:53







The People Of London Send Islamic State A Powerful Message

2014-11-01 13:36:50







New Disney World Ride Catches Fire

2014-11-01 22:50:06




Previous Story
Next Story












Burkina Faso's President Declares State Of Emergency Over Protests





                   AP/Huffington Post UK				                   







        Posted: 
            30/10/2014 21:35 GMT        


        Updated: 
            30/10/2014 21:59 GMT        






 







Share






Tweet







Email





Comment













stumble



reddit

 






















Burkina Faso's leader of nearly three decades declared a state of emergency Thursday, hours after protesters who oppose his bid for another term stormed the parliament and set part of it on fire, marking the greatest threat to his rule since he himself seized power in a coup.It was not immediately clear where President Blaise Compaore was following the announcement that also called for an end to the demonstrations. At least one person was killed and several others were wounded earlier in the day amid the melee, authorities said.Army Gen. Honore Traore, the joint chief of staff, later announced that a curfew would be in effect from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. The government and parliament also have been dissolved, he said.In a concession to the opposition, Compaore agreed Thursday to withdraw a bill from consideration in the parliament that would have allowed him to extend his 27-rule through a fifth term in office.While demonstrators managed to block the highly controversial parliamentary vote, the violent opposition unleashed Thursday underscored the threat Compaore now faces as frustrations mount in one of the world's poorest countries. In a sign of the growing unrest, crowds also attacked the homes of government ministers and looted shops in the country's second-largest city, Bobo Dioulasso, witnesses said."It is over for the regime!" and "We do not want him again!" shouted demonstrators when they heard that the vote on term limits had been stopped.Flames enveloped the main building in the parliament complex, and many lawmakers fled to a nearby hotel."It is difficult to say what happens next, but things are out of control because the demonstrators do not listen to anyone," said Ablasse Ouedraogo, an opposition lawmaker.The images of cars on fire and plumes of black smoke in the capital of Ouagadougou prompted alarm from the international community. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called on all parties to end the violence, and is "saddened over the loss of life resulting from recent events," a statement said. Mohamed Ibn Chambas, a U.N. Special Representative, said he "deplores the deterioration of the security situation" and is scheduled to visit the country Friday.In a bid to restore calm, military leaders met Thursday afternoon with the influential traditional chief of the country's largest ethnic group, the Mossi, according to Jonathan Yameogo, a spokesman for the ruling party.Burkina Faso has long been known for its relative stability in volatile West Africa, though tensions have been mounting over Compaore's plans to extend his rule.He first came to power following the October 1987 coup against then-President Thomas Sankara, Compaore's longtime friend and political ally who ultimately was killed in the power grab.Compaore has been elected four times since, though the opposition has disputed the results.Earlier, police in the capital had pushed the crowds back with tear gas, but they regrouped in larger numbers, surged past police lines and broke into the parliament building.Since coming to power in a coup, Compaore, 63, has refashioned himself as an elder statesman who brokered electoral disputes and hostage releases throughout the region.He made no secret of his support for Charles Taylor, the Liberian warlord turned president now serving a 50-year sentence for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Sierra Leone. The leader of Burkina Faso also has been accused of supporting rebel groups in Ivory Coast and Angola, though he later played the role as a peacemaker in Ivory Coast and elsewhere.More recently, his government was involved in negotiating the release of several European hostages held by al-Qaida-linked militants in northern Mali. He also hosted the talks between Mali's government and separatist Tuareg rebels, leading to the agreement which made the July 2013 presidential election possible.In 2011, Compaore encountered another crisis when multiple waves of protests washed over the country. The unrest began with students torching government buildings in several cities after a young man died in the custody of security forces, allegedly as a result of mistreatment.Ordinary citizens took to the streets over rising food prices, and soldiers looted shops and stole cars to express their discontent over low pay. At one point in mid-April of that year, mutinous soldiers occupied the palace, forcing Compaore to flee.But what would have spelled the end for many presidents was a mere temporary problem for Compaore, one he could maneuver his way out of by removing his security chiefs and appointing himself defense minister before returning to Ouagadougou.



 


ASSOCIATED PRESS

A car burns outside the parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime President Blaise Compaore  who seeks another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. 




 


AFP/Getty Images

People stand in front of smoke rising from the Burkina Faso's Parliament, where demonstrators set cars on fire parked in a courtyard of the Parliament, on October 30, 2014 in Ouagadougou, as they protest at plans to change the constitution to allow President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year rule.




 


AFP/Getty Images

People stand in front of smoke rising from the Burkina Faso's Parliament, where demonstrators set cars on fire parked in a courtyard of the Parliament, on October 30, 2014 in Ouagadougou, as they protest at plans to change the constitution to allow President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year rule.




 


AFP/Getty Images

People stand in front of smoke rising from the Burkina Faso's Parliament, where demonstrators set cars on fire parked in a courtyard of the Parliament, on October 30, 2014 in Ouagadougou, as they protest at plans to change the constitution to allow President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year rule.




 


AFP/Getty Images

People stand in front of smoke rising from the Burkina Faso's Parliament, where demonstrators set cars on fire parked in a courtyard of the Parliament, on October 30, 2014 in Ouagadougou, as they protest at plans to change the constitution to allow President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year rule.




 


AFP/Getty Images

People stand in front of smoke rising from the Burkina Faso's Parliament, where demonstrators set cars on fire parked in a courtyard of the Parliament, on October 30, 2014 in Ouagadougou, as they protest at plans to change the constitution to allow President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year rule.




 


ASSOCIATED PRESS

Women dance during a rally to support demonstrations in Burkina Faso, in Paris, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. 




 


ASSOCIATED PRESS

A boy attends a rally to support demonstrations in Burkina Faso, in Paris, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. 




 


ASSOCIATED PRESS

A man holds a placard reading "Don't touch my constitution" during a rally to support demonstrations in Burkina Faso, in Paris, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. 




 


ASSOCIATED PRESS

A man holds a placard reading "Blaise get out", a reference to Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore, during a rally to support demonstrations in Burkina Faso, in Paris, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014. 




 


ASSOCIATED PRESS

People chant slogans during a rally to support demonstrations in Burkina Faso, in Paris, Thursday, Oct. 30, 2014.






Related on HuffPost:

 




More:


Burkina Faso


Burkina Faso Protests


UK NEWS





Suggest a correction


















Sponsored Links






Around the Web
 Burkina Faso President Declares State of Emergency - ABC News Burkina Faso President Declares State Of Emergency Amidst Violent ... Burkina Faso president declares state of emergency - News ... Government of Burkina Faso Collapses Spokesman: Burkina Faso president declares state of emergency after violent ... Burkina Faso: State of emergency declared after protesters set parliament ablaze Burkina Faso president declares state of emergency after violent protests State of government in Burkina Faso unclear amid media rumors African protesters launch 'Black Spring' in Burkina Faso 




 


Click here to view Conversations


Conversations


















Most Popular





                    Another Islamic State Atrocity Is Revealed                                    





Getty 




                    This Lady Doesn't Recommend Hiking In A Corset                                    





Barcroft 




                    Dad Invites Daughter's Alleged Rapist To Dinner And Tortures Him To Death                                    





Orange31 via Getty Images 




                    Sickening GRAPHIC Image Shows Islamic State Have Sunk To A New Low                                    





  




                    EXCLUSIVE: This Is What It Takes To Flummox Benedict Cumberbatch                                    





StudioCanal 




                    Miliband, Harman And Clegg May Regret Wearing Their Feminist T Shirts Now                                    





Mail On Sunday 




                    Army Boy Blasted With 'Makeshift Blowtorch' After Selling Poppies                                    





Carl Court via Getty Images 




                    The Guardian Hits Back After 'Sneering' Poppy Article Backlash                                    





Anthony Devlin/PA Archive 




                    The People Of London Send Islamic State A Powerful Message                                    





PA 




                    Scotland Has Changed Its Mind Again About Independence...                                    





PA 




                    This Is What Happens If You Attend A Gay Wedding In Egypt...                                    





- via Getty Images 




                    ANOTHER Russian Bomber Intercepted By RAF                                    





ASSOCIATED PRESS 




                    'British Banker Held Over Murder Of Two Sex Workers In Hong Kong'                                    





Gary Conner via Getty Images 




                    The Sun Offered Students Thousands For Alan Henning Halloween Costume Photos                                    





Edward Smith/EMPICS Entertainment 




                    Did Ed Give This Beggar Woman Tuppence?                                    





Rex 




                    Injured Virgin Galactic Pilot 'Alert And Talking'                                    





ASSOCIATED PRESS 




                    Position Vacant: Oilman Wanted, Salary £140k, Reporting To Islamic State                                    





MARWAN IBRAHIM via Getty Images 




                    Boko Haram Says It Won't Be Returning Schoolgirls, Who Have Been 'Married Off'                                    





Anadolu Agency via Getty Images 




                    Death Toll Mounting After Bombing At Pakistan-India Border                                    





AlHaber1 




                    The Pictures That Show Heroes Of WW1 Have Not Been Forgotten                                    





Getty 







FOLLOW HUFFPOST


Email



Email Address




Options


HuffPost Daily Brief



UK




                                        Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
                                      




Facebook



HuffPost

 





Twitter




HuffPost

Follow





Google Plus



HuffPost








RSS



The Huffington Post UK


All RSS / Feeds





Phone



Available on the App Store


Android App on Google Play


Get it at Blackberry App World











Sponsored Links






























Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search









Advertise


Log In


Make HuffPost your Home Page


RSS


Careers


FAQ




User Agreement


Privacy


Cookie Policy


Comment Policy


About Us


About Our Ads




Contact Us




The Huffington Post UK is provided by AOL (UK) Limited. © 2014 AOL (UK) Limited its affiliates and licensors
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.

Part of HPMG News
















 








Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
* Required



*

*







* What kind of error is this?

Choose an option
Factual or typographical
Comment moderation problem
Rights and permissions
Other







* What is the correction?
0 count


Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)






* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg                        







Sign me up for The Huffington Post's Daily Brief


Thank you!


























 
 

