BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Army 'must give power to civilians' 







BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Army 'must give power to civilians'
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























2 November 2014
Last updated at 14:41


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso crisis: Army 'must give power to civilians'









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























Adam Kanazoe, opposition leader: 'Transition needs to be headed by a civilian'



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Civilians 'must head Burkina transition' Watch


Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore


Compaore's 27 years of power Watch



Military leaders now in control of Burkina Faso must hand power to civilians or face consequences, the United Nations and African Union say.
UN West Africa envoy Mohamed Ibn Chambas said the military could face sanctions if they refused.
Meanwhile, thousands of people are gathering in the capital Ouagadougou to rally against the military takeover.
Days of protests forced President Blaise Compaore to step down on 31 October and flee to Ivory Coast.
Mr Compaore's attempt to extend his time in office was the immediate trigger for the protests.
But analysts say high prices, low wages and persistent poverty have fuelled wider discontent, particularly among younger Burkinabes.
Gunfire at state TV
The military takeover has infuriated opposition groups, who called a mass rally on Sunday against the army's "confiscation" of the uprising.
"The victory born from this popular uprising belongs to the people, and the task of managing the transition falls by right to the people," the groups said in a statement.


Protesters accused the military of "confiscating" the revolution



Protest leaders are addressing the crowd in Ouagadougou

By early afternoon, thousands had turned out to protest in Ouagadougou's National Square, where one million had gathered earlier in the week to demand Mr Compaore's resignation.
On a makeshift stage in front of the crowd, one protester shouted into a microphone: "We are going to stay here. We are not going to move unless the military leave power."
Other protesters accused the military of being in league with Mr Compaore.
Elsewhere in Ouagadougou, witnesses reported hearing gunfire at the headquarters of state TV.
An unconfirmed report by the AFP news agency claimed that soldiers fired in the air to disperse protesters before seizing control of the building.
Avoid 'instability'
Meanwhile, the AU, UN, the US and regional economic bloc Ecowas all condemned the military takeover.
"We hope there will be a transition led by a civilian and in keeping with  the constitutional order," Mr Chambas said.
"If not, the consequences are pretty clear. We want to avoid having to impose sanctions on Burkina Faso."
AU chief Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma urged the military to "refrain from any acts or statements that may lead to further instability".









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























Footage showed the aftermath of damage caused by looters and protesters



 The US state department urged an immediate transfer of power to civilian authorities and a move towards free and fair presidential elections.
The army has quickly stepped in to fill the power vacuum, declaring Lt Col Isaac Zida the nation's transitional leader.
Col Zida was second-in-command of the presidential guard, and his selection apparently came after a power struggle with the overall army chief, Gen Honore Traore.
Under Burkina Faso's constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns and election should take place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.


The army declared Lt Col Isaac Zida interim leader after a power struggle





More on This Story


Related Stories



Civilians 'must head Burkina transition' Watch

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore's 27 years of power Watch

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Burkina Faso profile

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA








From other news sites


Business Insider  Burkina Amy Vows To Install A Unity Government After Seizing National TV Headquarters 1 hr ago


Guardian.co.uk  Burkina Faso army uses gunfire to clear streets 4 hrs ago


Reuters UK  UPDATE 3-Army clears protesters, fires warning shots in Burkina Faso 12 hrs ago


The Guardian Nigeria  Burkina Faso Army defiant as protesters denounce power grab 14 hrs ago


Telegraph  Burkina Faso on the brink as protesters take to streets in fear of military coup 18 hrs ago


About these results













Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top Stories



Boy given life for murdering teacher


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


Man admits killing his mother, 76,


HSBC reserves $378m in currency probe









Features




My evil dad

What's it like to be the daughter of a serial killer? 	
				  




Northern star

Should all English cities be more like Manchester? 	
				  




Champion's fear

Why Chris Boardman won't let his daughter cycle on the road 	
				  




Relaxed grammar

Why typos and spelling mistakes don't really matter 	
				  




Advanced warfare Watch

Will new Call of Duty reinvigorate the franchise?  	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



4: UK Living Wage raised by 20p an hour



5: Teenage poppy seller burned in attack



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



3: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



4: Lynda Bellingham funeral takes place Watch



5: Rail staff attacked at London Bridge Watch



6: Branson: Explosion claims 'hurtful' Watch



7: Safety error' caused Virgin rocket crash Watch



8: Call of Duty hopes to thrill gamers Watch



9: Is Japan 2020 stadium too big? In 60 secs Watch



10: Inside the UK's biggest salt mine Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    













