BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Shots fired at state TV station 







BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Shots fired at state TV station
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























2 November 2014
Last updated at 21:59


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso crisis: Shots fired at state TV station









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























Laeila Adjovi in Ouagadougou: There are claims of violence against civilians



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


'Country in chaos'


Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore


Compaore's 27 years of power Watch



Unrest in Burkina Faso has led to state-run TV going off air for several hours after soldiers fired gunshots at its offices to force protesters and journalists to disperse.
Elsewhere, soldiers cleared thousands of demonstrators from a square in the capital and barricaded the area.
The army seized power on Friday after long-time leader Blaise Compaore quit following days of protests. 
The UN has condemned the military takeover and threatened sanctions.
West Africa envoy Mohamed Ibn Chambas said the military must allow a civilian transfer of power.
The army named Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida as the leader of a transitional government on Saturday. 
On Sunday evening, Lt Col Zida met opposition leaders for talks. 
Following the meeting, a military spokesman said the army would put in place "a transition body... with all the components to be adopted by a broad consensus".


Protesters had gathered at state TV headquarters in expectation of an announcement from opposition figures



Opposition figure Saran Sereme arrived at state TV just before gunshots were heard



Dozens fled, some later complaining that soldiers had beaten them

Thousands of protesters gathered on Sunday at various places around Ouagadougou, the Burkinabe capital, to demonstrate against the army.
There were chaotic scenes as both opposition leader Saran Sereme and former Defence Minister Kwame Lougue turned up at the state TV headquarters.
The crowds believed Ms Sereme was about to announce that she was willing to lead the transition, the BBC's Laeila Adjovi in Ouagadougou reports.
Reports suggest retired General Lougue also intended to announce that he could lead the country.
However, shortly after they arrived, gunfire broke out and staff and protesters fled.



At the scene: Laeila Adjovi, BBC News, Ouagadougou
After the confusion of these past few days, the situation was very tense on Sunday in Burkina Faso's capital. 
People were back on the streets this morning to demand the return of civilian rule.
But then shots were fired next to the national television station and people were scared, fleeing in all directions. After that, we saw crowds disperse and flee every time they saw an army vehicle.
Some are angry at the army. Other says the latest violence is the responsibility of the presidential guard - commanded by Col Zida.
'Country in chaos': Voices from Ouagadougou



National television resumed broadcasting a few hours later.
Witnesses told the BBC that soldiers had fired in the air to disperse protesters before forcing journalists to leave.
"We went to the national TV [station] to try to understand what is going to happen, and while a colonel was reassuring us, some troops arrived and started to shoot," protester Amadou Yamiro told the BBC.
"We don't want the army to be in power, especially the special presidential regiment," he added.
Troops also barricaded the capital's main square, Place de la Nation.
Sanctions threat
On Sunday evening, key opposition figures met Col Zida for talks.
Those present included party leader Zephirin Diabre, former Foreign Minister Ablasse Ouedraogo, ex-Prime Minister Roch Marc Christian Kabore and party leader Benewende Sankara.
However, Ms Sereme reportedly left before the talks began and there were no details on what was discussed. 
Mass protests first erupted last week when long-time leader Mr Compaore attempted to extend his 27-year rule.  
Parts of the parliament building were set on fire, and the president fled to Ivory Coast.
The army quickly stepped in to fill the power vacuum, declaring that Lt Col Isaac Zida would be the country's transitional leader.


Soldiers took control of state TV offices shortly after the gunfire



The army declared Lt Col Isaac Zida interim leader after a power struggle










Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























Adam Kanazoe, opposition leader: "Transition needs to be headed by civilian"



 He was second-in-command of the presidential guard, and his selection apparently came after a power struggle with the overall army chief, Gen Honore Traore.
Many protesters had called for Gen Lougue to lead a transitional government instead.
However, in an interview with BBC Afrique (in French), the retired general said he had been marginalised by his military colleagues.
He was forced to leave military negotiations after the atmosphere became tense and he began to fear for his life, he said.
Under Burkina Faso's constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns and an election should take place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
The African Union, the US and regional economic bloc Ecowas have all condemned the military takeover.
While Mr Compaore's attempt to extend his time in office was the immediate trigger for the protests, analysts say high prices, low wages and persistent poverty have also fuelled discontent.







More on This Story


Related Stories



'Country in chaos'

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore's 27 years of power Watch

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Burkina Faso profile

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA








From other news sites


Times Live South Africa  Burkina army leader promises 'consensus' government 1 hr ago


Guardian.co.uk  Burkina Faso army uses gunfire to clear streets 7 hrs ago


International Business Times UK  Burkina Faso: Uncertainty Persists as Army Pledges to Transfer Power 9 hrs ago


The Guardian Nigeria  Burkina Faso crisis: Army promises 'transition body' 10 hrs ago


RTE Online  Burkina's army in vow over transitional government 17 hrs ago


About these results













Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top Stories



Boy given life for murdering teacher


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


Man admits killing his mother, 76,


HSBC reserves $378m in currency probe









Features




My evil dad

What's it like to be the daughter of a serial killer? 	
				  




Northern star

Should all English cities be more like Manchester? 	
				  




Champion's fear

Why Chris Boardman won't let his daughter cycle on the road 	
				  




Relaxed grammar

Why typos and spelling mistakes don't really matter 	
				  




Advanced warfare Watch

Will new Call of Duty reinvigorate the franchise?  	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



4: UK Living Wage raised by 20p an hour



5: Teenage poppy seller burned in attack



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



3: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



4: Lynda Bellingham funeral takes place Watch



5: Rail staff attacked at London Bridge Watch



6: Branson: Explosion claims 'hurtful' Watch



7: Safety error' caused Virgin rocket crash Watch



8: Call of Duty hopes to thrill gamers Watch



9: Is Japan 2020 stadium too big? In 60 secs Watch



10: Inside the UK's biggest salt mine Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    













