BBC News - Burkina Faso parliament set ablaze 







BBC News - Burkina Faso parliament set ablaze
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























30 October 2014
Last updated at 12:24 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso parliament set ablaze









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























The BBC's Laeila Adjovi: "All around me there's black smoke"



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest


Thomas Sankara's legacy 


Compaore: 'What I'm doing is legal' Watch



Protesters angry at plans to allow Burkina Faso's President Blaise Compaore to extend his 27-year-rule have set fire to parliament. 
Correspondents say the city hall and ruling party headquarters are also in flames in the capital, Ouagadougou.
A huge crowd is surging towards the presidential palace and the main airport has been shut. 
MPs have suspended a vote on changing the constitution to allow Mr Compaore to stand for re-election next year. 
Five people have been killed in the protests, among the most serious against Mr Compaore's rule, reports BBC Afrique's Yacouba Ouedraogo from the capital. 
The military fired live bullets as protesters stormed parliament, our correspondent says.



Journalists are now gathered outside the defence ministry awaiting a statement from the military, he says.
Witnesses say dozens of soldiers have joined the protests, including a former defence minister, Gen Kouame Lougue.
The main opposition leader, Zephirin Diabre, has called on the military to side with "the people" and has demanded the resignation of the president.   









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Thousands of protesters have gathered in Ouagadougou



 Mr Compaore's whereabouts are unknown, but he has appealed for calm via Twitter.
He first took power in a coup in 1987, and has won four disputed elections since then.



At the scene: Joost Laane, speaking to BBC Focus on Africa
I am in an area where many MPs live and  I have seen two of their homes set ablaze and smoke coming out of another two or three homes. Hotel Azalai, one of the main hotels in the city, is also on fire.
Two helicopters flew over my house -  the president's and a normal helicopter. I cannot confirm whether the president was in one of them.
No-one knows what is going to happen next. It is chaotic and tense. We hear sporadic gunfire. 
There is no TV anymore. So we are depending on internet access and phone calls. The 3G network and the texting system are blocked. 



The opposition has called for a campaign of civil disobedience to demand that he steps down in elections next year.
"October 30 is Burkina Faso's black spring, like the Arab Spring," opposition activist Emile Pargui Pare told AFP news agency. 


Demonstrators breached the security around parliament and set it on fire



Cars were also set ablaze near parliament



The protesters do not want Mr Compaore to change the constitution to extend his rule



The defence forces have been trying to disperse the protesters

State television went off air after protesters stormed the building housing it and ransacked it, Reuters quotes a witness as saying. 
About 1,500 people breached the security cordon at parliament, according to AFP. 
Protesters were setting fire to documents and stealing computer equipment and cars outside the building were also set on fire, the agency says.



Blaise Compaore









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























President Blaise Compaore: "My concern today is not to build a future for myself - but to see how the future of this country will take shape"




 Served under President Thomas Sankara as minister of state to the presidency
 Took power after Sankara was killed in mysterious circumstances by a group of soldiers in 1987
 First elected president in 1991 and again in 1998
 A new constitution in 2000 limited presidents to two terms in office, and limited terms to five years
 Won two further terms
 Protests at attempts to amend the term limits began a year ago, fuelled by the high cost of living



A massive crowd has also converged on the main square in Ouagadougou and is marching towards the presidential palace, which is about 5km (three miles) away, our reporter says.
A government helicopter flying overhead was firing tear gas at them, Reuters reports. 
There are also reports of protests in the south-western city of Bobo Dioulasso.
The government has been forced to suspend Thursday's parliamentary vote on a constitutional amendment that would have lifted the limit on presidential terms so that Mr Compaore could run for office again in 2015. 
It is not clear whether the government intends to hold the vote at a later stage, correspondents say.   
Mr Compaore is a staunch ally of the US and France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for military operations against militant Islamists in the Sahel region.  
Both France and the European Union (EU) have called on him to scrap the proposed constitutional amendment.
The EU said it could jeopardise Burkina Faso's stability. The US has also raised concern about the proposed amendment.   




More on This Story


Related Stories



As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest

30 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Thomas Sankara's legacy 

30 APRIL 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore: 'What I'm doing is legal' Watch

28 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Burkina Faso profile

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA











Around the BBC


Africa Today podcast



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top stories



Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


US right-to-die advocate ends life


Facebook sets up 'dark web' service


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Thousands see Chicago high-wire act









Features & Analysis




My evil Dad

What's it like to be the child of a serial killer? 	
				  




'Angel of Kobane'

How a female Kurdish fighter became an internet legend 	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  




Rebel justice

Show of hands condemns Ukraine rape suspect to death 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: My life as a serial killer’s daughter



4: Virgin safety tool 'deployed early'



5: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Boeing 737 lands at university Watch



5: Merkel 'would accept UK EU exit' Watch



6: Virgin crash investigation begins Watch



7: Breastfeeding photo deleted by Facebook Watch



8: Inside Virgin Galactic spaceship Watch



9: Mexico tunnel reveals ancient relics  Watch



10: 100 Women: Why should we care?  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Where in the world?

Think you’re a geography expert? Test your knowledge with BBC Travel’s Geoguessr











Programmes



Click Watch

Will Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare reinvigorate the first-person shooter franchise?






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    









