BBC News - Burkina Faso general takes over as Compaore resigns 







BBC News - Burkina Faso general takes over as Compaore resigns
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























31 October 2014
Last updated at 22:14 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso general takes over as Compaore resigns









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Gen Honore Traore: "I will assume the responsibility of head of state"



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest


In pictures: Burkina Faso protests



Burkina Faso's President Blaise Compaore has announced his resignation following violent protests over his attempt to extend his 27-year rule.
Mr Compaore issued a statement saying the presidency was now vacant and urging elections within 90 days.
Army chief Gen Honore Traore said he had taken over, but it was not clear if he had the backing of all the military.
Crowds danced and cheered in the capital, Ouagadougou, after Mr Compaore's resignation was broadcast.
On Thursday, protesters angry at his attempt to amend the constitution set fire to parliament and government buildings.






At the scene: BBC's Yacouba Ouedraogo, Ouagadougou 
There was a euphoric atmosphere in the Place de la Nation as the thousands of protesters heard that Blaise Compaore was no longer their president.
But the crowds have no intention of going home, as they are unhappy that Gen Honore Traore has been appointed as transitional head.
He is seen as too close to the ousted president - he was Blaise Compaore's aide de camp - and for these demonstrators that is not enough of a rupture with the past. 
"This is not a coup - this is a popular uprising," one man in the crowd said. 
How Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall



'Social peace'
Mr Compaore had earlier vowed to remain in power until a transitional government completed its work in 2015, although he had agreed not to seek another term.
However, the opposition continued to demand that he resign - a key leader, Zephirin Diabre, urged protesters to occupy public spaces.
After the resignation, Mr Diabre told the BBC's Focus on Africa radio programme that he was relieved by the resignation and called on opposition groups to "work on the transition to take care of our country". 
It could be a year before elections are held, he said, "because you need to revive the constitution, maybe draw up a new constitution. That would take at least 12 months".


People celebrate after the news of the resignation was announced in Ouagadougou



People were seen looting a house in Ouagadougou that belongs to the brother of ex-leader Blaise Compaore




Mr Compaore's statement, which he read on television, said: "In order to preserve the democratic gains, as well as social peace, I declare a power vacuum to allow the establishment of a transition leading to free and fair elections within a maximum of 90 days."
He added: "For my part, I think I have fulfilled my duty."
His whereabouts now remain unclear.
However, media reports said a heavily armed convoy believed to be carrying Mr Compaore was travelling towards the southern town of Po, near the border with Ghana.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























President Compaore had earlier urged talks with all parties



 One protester, Sam, told the BBC: "Blaise Compaore has gone away, he's running away and we are happy. The words are not coming so easy because I'm very happy, my children are going to know another president."
Under Article 43 of the constitution, the president of the senate should take over after the president resigns, and elections should take place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
However, the military announced a state of emergency and the dissolution of both houses of parliament on Thursday - effectively leaving a power vacuum.
Army split?
In his statement, military chief Gen Traore said: "In line with constitutional measures, and given the power vacuum... I will assume as of today my responsibilities as head of state."
But army spokesman Lt Col Isaac Zida later told reporters the constitution had been suspended.
"The civilian and armed forces have decided to take the destiny of the nation in hand," he said.
The "length and makeup of the transitional body [responsible for organising elections] will be decided later," he added.
It was unclear whether Lt Col Zida was speaking on behalf of Gen Traore, or as a rival.
The BBC's Yacouba Ouedraogo, in Ouagadougou, says there may be a split in the army, with Lt Col Zida saying he will lead the transition, not Gen Traore.



BBC's James Copnall on Blaise Compaore's career









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























BBC News looks back at Blaise Compaore's three decades of power



 Blaise Compaore was a young army officer when he seized power in 1987. A taciturn man, he became known as Beau Blaise - good-looking Blaise. The nickname did not necessarily suggest he was popular. Many blamed him for the death of his predecessor, the charismatic revolutionary Thomas Sankara, who was killed by soldiers in mysterious circumstances.
Controversy would be a perpetual feature of Beau Blaise's time in power. The president was accused of stoking rebellions around West Africa. Yet over time Mr Compaore oversaw a transformation of his image, internationally at least. This inflammatory figure became a man relied upon to put out fires around the region.
Mr Compaore won a series of elections, though the opposition always complained the odds were stacked dramatically in his favour. He largely followed the economic orthodoxy prescribed by international financial institutions. But Burkina Faso did not escape the poverty trap. It remains one of the least developed countries in the world.



Are you in Burkina Faso? Send us your eyewitness accounts and views by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk
Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 (UK) or +44 7624 800 100 (international). Or you can upload here.
Read the terms and conditions.




More on This Story


Related Stories



As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



In pictures: Burkina Faso protests

30 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                IN PICTURES








From other news sites


Reuters UK  UPDATE 4-Burkina Faso army backs presidential guard officer to lead transition 1 hr ago


Mail Online UK  Burkina Faso army backs presidential guard officer to lead transition 2 hrs ago


Telegraph  Military rivals vie for power in leaderless Burkina Faso 6 hrs ago


Daily Nation  Burkina power struggle as army group 'take country in hand' 10 hrs ago


Haveeru Daily Online  Burkina power struggle as army take over 11 hrs ago


About these results

























Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top stories



Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


US right-to-die advocate ends life


Facebook sets up 'dark web' service


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Thousands see Chicago high-wire act









Features & Analysis




My evil Dad

What's it like to be the child of a serial killer? 	
				  




'Angel of Kobane'

How a female Kurdish fighter became an internet legend 	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  




Rebel justice

Show of hands condemns Ukraine rape suspect to death 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: My life as a serial killer’s daughter



4: Virgin safety tool 'deployed early'



5: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Boeing 737 lands at university Watch



5: Merkel 'would accept UK EU exit' Watch



6: Virgin crash investigation begins Watch



7: Breastfeeding photo deleted by Facebook Watch



8: Inside Virgin Galactic spaceship Watch



9: Mexico tunnel reveals ancient relics  Watch



10: 100 Women: Why should we care?  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Where in the world?

Think you’re a geography expert? Test your knowledge with BBC Travel’s Geoguessr











Programmes



Click Watch

Will Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare reinvigorate the first-person shooter franchise?






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    









