BBC News - Army backs new Burkina Faso leader Isaac Zida 







BBC News - Army backs new Burkina Faso leader Isaac Zida
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























1 November 2014
Last updated at 16:34 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Army backs new Burkina Faso leader Isaac Zida


Colonel Isaac Zida has become the second military man to claim to be head of state following President Compaore's resignation


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore


Compaore's 27 years of power Watch


Burkina Faso profile



Burkina Faso army chiefs have backed a military officer as interim leader.
In a statement, the army said Lt-Col Isaac Zida was "chosen unanimously to lead the transition period".
This appears to end confusion over who has succeeded President Blaise Compaore, who stood down amid unrest.
But opposition groups have called for a mass meeting on Sunday morning in the capital Ouagadougou, warning the military not to hijack the public revolt against Mr Compaore.
"The victory born from this popular uprising belongs to the people, and the  task of managing the transition falls by right to the people. In no case can it  be confiscated by the army," they said in a statement.
The BBC's Thomas Fessy says that in a country where the outgoing president has dominated the political scene for nearly three decades, the opposition is weak.
The turnout at the rally will be a measure of its credibility, our correspondent adds.
Elections call
The army statement was signed by army chief General Honore Traore, who had earlier declared himself head of state.


The parliament building in Ouagadougou was set on fire by protesters on Thursday

Mr Compaore, who quit after 27 years as president, fled the country and is now in Yamoussoukro, the capital of neighbouring Ivory Coast.
A statement from the office of President Alassane Ouattara said Ivory Coast took in Mr Compaore, his family and those close to him and was paying "particular attention" to events in Burkina Faso, news agency AP reported.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Brigadier General Pingrenoma Zagre, right, announced Colonel Zida (l) as Burkina's Faso's transitional leader



 The BBC's Thomas Fessy, monitoring events from Senegal, says celebrations at Mr Compaore's departure are being replaced by concerns that this popular uprising may have been jeopardised by yet another military coup.
Lt-Col Zida, previously second in command of the presidential guard, was, like Gen Traore, very close to the former president, and his rise raises questions over the army's intentions. 
Under the country's constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns, with elections taking place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
The African Union called for a "civilian-led transition" culminating as soon as possible in "the holding of free, fair and transparent elections".
In a statement, AU chief Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma urged the military to "refrain from any acts or statements that may lead to further instability".
Protests began earlier this week after Mr Compaore sought to amend the constitution and extend his long hold on the presidency.
On Thursday, protesters set fire to parliament and government buildings in Ouagadougou.




More on This Story


Related Stories



Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore's 27 years of power Watch

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Burkina Faso profile

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA





























Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top stories



Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


US right-to-die advocate ends life


Facebook sets up 'dark web' service


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Thousands see Chicago high-wire act









Features & Analysis




My evil Dad

What's it like to be the child of a serial killer? 	
				  




'Angel of Kobane'

How a female Kurdish fighter became an internet legend 	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  




Rebel justice

Show of hands condemns Ukraine rape suspect to death 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: My life as a serial killer’s daughter



4: Virgin safety tool 'deployed early'



5: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Boeing 737 lands at university Watch



5: Merkel 'would accept UK EU exit' Watch



6: Virgin crash investigation begins Watch



7: Breastfeeding photo deleted by Facebook Watch



8: Inside Virgin Galactic spaceship Watch



9: Mexico tunnel reveals ancient relics  Watch



10: 100 Women: Why should we care?  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Where in the world?

Think you’re a geography expert? Test your knowledge with BBC Travel’s Geoguessr











Programmes



Click Watch

Will Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare reinvigorate the first-person shooter franchise?






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    









