BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Shots fired at state TV station 







BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Shots fired at state TV station
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























2 November 2014
Last updated at 16:59 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso crisis: Shots fired at state TV station









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Laeila Adjovi in Ouagadougou: There are claims of violence against civilians



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


'Country in chaos'


Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore


Compaore's 27 years of power Watch



Unrest in Burkina Faso has led to state-run TV going off air for several hours after soldiers fired gunshots at its offices to force protesters and journalists to disperse.
Elsewhere, soldiers cleared thousands of demonstrators from a square in the capital and barricaded the area.
The army seized power on Friday after long-time leader Blaise Compaore quit following days of protests. 
The UN has condemned the military takeover and threatened sanctions.
West Africa envoy Mohamed Ibn Chambas said the military must allow a civilian transfer of power.
The army named Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida as the leader of a transitional government on Saturday. 
On Sunday evening, Lt Col Zida met opposition leaders for talks. 
Following the meeting, a military spokesman said the army would put in place "a transition body... with all the components to be adopted by a broad consensus".


Protesters had gathered at state TV headquarters in expectation of an announcement from opposition figures



Opposition figure Saran Sereme arrived at state TV just before gunshots were heard



Dozens fled, some later complaining that soldiers had beaten them

Thousands of protesters gathered on Sunday at various places around Ouagadougou, the Burkinabe capital, to demonstrate against the army.
There were chaotic scenes as both opposition leader Saran Sereme and former Defence Minister Kwame Lougue turned up at the state TV headquarters.
The crowds believed Ms Sereme was about to announce that she was willing to lead the transition, the BBC's Laeila Adjovi in Ouagadougou reports.
Reports suggest retired General Lougue also intended to announce that he could lead the country.
However, shortly after they arrived, gunfire broke out and staff and protesters fled.



At the scene: Laeila Adjovi, BBC News, Ouagadougou
After the confusion of these past few days, the situation was very tense on Sunday in Burkina Faso's capital. 
People were back on the streets this morning to demand the return of civilian rule.
But then shots were fired next to the national television station and people were scared, fleeing in all directions. After that, we saw crowds disperse and flee every time they saw an army vehicle.
Some are angry at the army. Other says the latest violence is the responsibility of the presidential guard - commanded by Col Zida.
'Country in chaos': Voices from Ouagadougou



National television resumed broadcasting a few hours later.
Witnesses told the BBC that soldiers had fired in the air to disperse protesters before forcing journalists to leave.
"We went to the national TV [station] to try to understand what is going to happen, and while a colonel was reassuring us, some troops arrived and started to shoot," protester Amadou Yamiro told the BBC.
"We don't want the army to be in power, especially the special presidential regiment," he added.
Troops also barricaded the capital's main square, Place de la Nation.
Sanctions threat
On Sunday evening, key opposition figures met Col Zida for talks.
Those present included party leader Zephirin Diabre, former Foreign Minister Ablasse Ouedraogo, ex-Prime Minister Roch Marc Christian Kabore and party leader Benewende Sankara.
However, Ms Sereme reportedly left before the talks began and there were no details on what was discussed. 
Mass protests first erupted last week when long-time leader Mr Compaore attempted to extend his 27-year rule.  
Parts of the parliament building were set on fire, and the president fled to Ivory Coast.
The army quickly stepped in to fill the power vacuum, declaring that Lt Col Isaac Zida would be the country's transitional leader.


Soldiers took control of state TV offices shortly after the gunfire



The army declared Lt Col Isaac Zida interim leader after a power struggle










Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Adam Kanazoe, opposition leader: "Transition needs to be headed by civilian"



 He was second-in-command of the presidential guard, and his selection apparently came after a power struggle with the overall army chief, Gen Honore Traore.
Many protesters had called for Gen Lougue to lead a transitional government instead.
However, in an interview with BBC Afrique (in French), the retired general said he had been marginalised by his military colleagues.
He was forced to leave military negotiations after the atmosphere became tense and he began to fear for his life, he said.
Under Burkina Faso's constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns and an election should take place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
The African Union, the US and regional economic bloc Ecowas have all condemned the military takeover.
While Mr Compaore's attempt to extend his time in office was the immediate trigger for the protests, analysts say high prices, low wages and persistent poverty have also fuelled discontent.







More on This Story


Related Stories



'Country in chaos'

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore's 27 years of power Watch

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Burkina Faso profile

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA








From other news sites


Times Live South Africa  Burkina army leader promises 'consensus' government 1 hr ago


Guardian.co.uk  Burkina Faso army uses gunfire to clear streets 7 hrs ago


International Business Times UK  Burkina Faso: Uncertainty Persists as Army Pledges to Transfer Power 9 hrs ago


The Guardian Nigeria  Burkina Faso crisis: Army promises 'transition body' 10 hrs ago


RTE Online  Burkina's army in vow over transitional government 17 hrs ago


About these results

























Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top stories



Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


US right-to-die advocate ends life


Facebook sets up 'dark web' service


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Thousands see Chicago high-wire act









Features & Analysis




My evil Dad

What's it like to be the child of a serial killer? 	
				  




'Angel of Kobane'

How a female Kurdish fighter became an internet legend 	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  




Rebel justice

Show of hands condemns Ukraine rape suspect to death 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: My life as a serial killer’s daughter



4: Virgin safety tool 'deployed early'



5: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Boeing 737 lands at university Watch



5: Merkel 'would accept UK EU exit' Watch



6: Virgin crash investigation begins Watch



7: Breastfeeding photo deleted by Facebook Watch



8: Inside Virgin Galactic spaceship Watch



9: Mexico tunnel reveals ancient relics  Watch



10: 100 Women: Why should we care?  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Where in the world?

Think you’re a geography expert? Test your knowledge with BBC Travel’s Geoguessr











Programmes



Click Watch

Will Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare reinvigorate the first-person shooter franchise?






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    









