BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Army promises 'transition body' 







BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Army promises 'transition body'
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























2 November 2014
Last updated at 19:03 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso crisis: Army promises 'transition body'









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Crowds demonstrate in Burkina Faso



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


'Country in chaos'


Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore


Compaore's 27 years of power Watch



Burkina Faso's military has said it will install a transitional government, days after it seized power as President Blaise Compaore resigned.
The move came after soldiers had fired shots at the state TV station and barricaded the capital's main square as thousands of protesters demanded the military give up power.
At least one demonstrator was killed in Sunday's clashes. 
The UN has also condemned the military takeover and threatened sanctions.
Long-time leader Mr Compaore quit on Thursday, following days of anti-government protests.
The army named Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida as the leader of a transitional government on Saturday. 
However, thousands of protesters gathered on Sunday in the capital Ouagadougou, demonstrating against the army.
On Sunday evening, following a meeting with key opposition figures, a military spokesman said the army would put in place "a transition body... with all the components to be adopted by a broad consensus".
"Power does not interest us, only the greater interest of the nation," the military said in a statement (in French).


Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida is currently acting head of state



A protester holds up a sign in French that reads "Zida get out" during a rally at the Place de la Nation

It had been necessary to disperse protesters to "restore order", the statement said, adding that one demonstrator outside the state TV station had died.
There were chaotic scenes at the state broadcaster's headquarters on Sunday, as both opposition leader Saran Sereme and former Defence Minister Kwame Lougue turned up to a rally.
It is believed that both had gone there, separately, to announce that they could head the transition government.
However, shortly after they arrived, gunfire broke out and staff and protesters fled.
Witnesses told the BBC that soldiers had fired in the air to disperse protesters before forcing journalists to leave.
National television resumed broadcasting a few hours later.
Troops also cleared protesters from the capital's main square, Place de la Nation.



At the scene: Laeila Adjovi, BBC News, Ouagadougou









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Laeila Adjovi in Ouagadougou: There are claims of violence against civilians



 After the confusion of these past few days, the situation was very tense on Sunday in Burkina Faso's capital. 
People were back on the streets this morning to demand the return of civilian rule.
But then shots were fired next to the national television station and people were scared, fleeing in all directions. After that, we saw crowds disperse and flee every time they saw an army vehicle.
Some are angry at the army. Other says the latest violence is the responsibility of the presidential guard - commanded by Col Zida.
'Country in chaos': Voices from Ouagadougou



On Sunday evening, key opposition figures met Col Zida for talks.
Those present included Zephirin Diabre, leader of the Union for Progress and Change, former Foreign Minister Ablasse Ouedraogo, ex-Prime Minister Roch Marc Christian Kabore and Benewende Sankara, leader of the Union for Rebirth - Sankarist Party. 


Col Zida (left) met opposition leaders for talks on Sunday

However, Ms Sereme reportedly left before the talks began and there were no details on what was discussed. 
Mass protests first erupted last week when long-time leader Mr Compaore attempted to extend his 27-year rule.  
Parts of the parliament building were set on fire, and the president fled to Ivory Coast.
Under Burkina Faso's constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns and an election should take place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
The African Union, the US and regional economic bloc Ecowas have all condemned the military takeover.
The UN's West Africa envoy Mohamed Ibn Chambas said the military must allow a civilian transfer of power, and sanctions were a possibility if this did not happen.



Are you in Burkina Faso? Send us your eyewitness accounts and views by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk
Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 (UK) or +44 7624 800 100 (international). Or you can upload here.
Read the terms and conditions.




More on This Story


Related Stories



'Country in chaos'

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore's 27 years of power Watch

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Burkina Faso profile

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA








From other news sites


Times Live South Africa  Burkina army leader promises 'consensus' government 1 hr ago


Guardian.co.uk  Burkina Faso army uses gunfire to clear streets 7 hrs ago


Daily Nation  Burkina army vows unity govt, protesters denounce power grab 7 hrs ago


International Business Times UK  Burkina Faso: Uncertainty Persists as Army Pledges to Transfer Power 9 hrs ago


The Guardian Nigeria  Burkina Faso crisis: Army promises 'transition body' 10 hrs ago


About these results

























Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Cup of Nations decision expected




Trade deals to ease River Nile row












Top stories



Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


US right-to-die advocate ends life


Facebook sets up 'dark web' service


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Thousands see Chicago high-wire act









Features & Analysis




My evil Dad

What's it like to be the child of a serial killer? 	
				  




'Angel of Kobane'

How a female Kurdish fighter became an internet legend 	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  




Rebel justice

Show of hands condemns Ukraine rape suspect to death 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: My life as a serial killer’s daughter



4: Virgin safety tool 'deployed early'



5: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Boeing 737 lands at university Watch



5: Merkel 'would accept UK EU exit' Watch



6: Virgin crash investigation begins Watch



7: Breastfeeding photo deleted by Facebook Watch



8: Inside Virgin Galactic spaceship Watch



9: Mexico tunnel reveals ancient relics  Watch



10: 100 Women: Why should we care?  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Where in the world?

Think you’re a geography expert? Test your knowledge with BBC Travel’s Geoguessr











Programmes



Click Watch

Will Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare reinvigorate the first-person shooter franchise?






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    









