BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Opposition urges Compaore to quit 







BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Opposition urges Compaore to quit
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























31 October 2014
Last updated at 08:38 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso crisis: Opposition urges Compaore to quit









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























President Compaore: "Only through a consultative dialogue will we be able to restore peace"



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


In pictures: Ouagadougou protests


As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest


Thomas Sankara's legacy 



Burkina Faso's opposition has renewed its call for the immediate resignation of President Blaise Compaore as hundreds of protesters gather in the capital, Ouagadougou.
A statement by opposition leader Zephirin Diabre urged protesters to occupy public spaces.
Demonstrators are angry Mr Compaore has been seeking to amend the constitution to stay in power beyond next year.
He has now agreed not to seek another term but says he will remain till 2015.
Mr Compaore's decision came after protesters set fire to parliament and government buildings on Thursday.
The creation of a transitional government to serve until 2015 elections was announced by army chief Gen Honore Traore, who said it would "be put in place in consultation with all parties". 
He also declared the dissolution of parliament.
UN chief Ban Ki-moon's special envoy for West Africa, Mohamed Ibn Chambas, is expected in Burkina Faso to try to ease the crisis, the UN said. 



Analysis: Thomas Fessy, BBC West Africa correspondent
The president said he was ready to open a political dialogue to set the terms of a transitional government that he would lead until the next presidential election. His current term ends in November next year, so staying in power now would be legal.
But would he be legitimate? 
Opposition leaders and protesters say no. They want him to step down now. 
President Compaore appeared to want to calm things down but he spoke like a man who still wants to decide when he goes. 
That could be the recipe for more unrest.
In pictures: Political violence hits Burkino Faso





Parliament was ransacked and set ablaze



Cars were also set on fire



The defence forces have been trying to disperse the protesters

'Fulfil your responsibilities'
In a statement released on Friday, main opposition leader Zephirin Diabre called on protesters to "maintain the pressure by systematically occupying public spaces".
"The opposition has said and will say again that the precondition for any discussion relating to a political transition is the departure, pure and simple and without condition, of Blaise Compaore," it said.
Opponents of the president were seen gathering in Ouagadougou's main square, Place de la Nation, and outside the army headquarters on Friday.
There were reports of a tense stand-off at the army HQ, with a huge crowd shouting: "Fulfil your responsibilities or we will do so ourselves."









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Anti-government protesters looted the parliament building in the capital, Ouagadougou on Thursday



 Another opponent of Mr Compaore, the rap artist Smockey who represents civil society group Le Balai Citoyen, told local radio that the people were "determined once and for all" to remove the president.
There were also reports of unrest in the second city of Bobo Dioulasso, with the courts of justice complex on fire.
The BBC's Laeila Adjovi in Ouagadougou says it is unclear whether the army or Mr Compaore is currently in control.
And with international diplomats backing the president's offer of talks and opposition leaders refusing to join in, there are fears that the confrontation could sink the country into further violence.
The president agreed to hand over to a democratically elected government only once the transitional administration had completed its 12-month term.
He repeated his position on Friday in an interview for Reuters news agency, saying he had heard the protesters and that all problems could be resolved through dialogue.
He had originally planned to seek re-election by pushing a constitutional amendment through parliament that would have lifted the limit on presidential terms.
But the move triggered Thursday's demonstrations, the most serious yet against Mr Compaore's rule.
At least one person was killed in the protests, says BBC Afrique's Yacouba Ouedraogo in the capital. 
The city hall, the homes of MPs, and an upmarket hotel in Ouagadougou were also set ablaze. 
Similar protests hit the south-western city of Bobo Dioulasso, and other towns in the poor West African state.
State television went off air after protesters ransacked its headquarters.



Blaise Compaore









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























BBC News looks back at Blaise Compaore's three decades of power




 Former soldier and served under President Thomas Sankara as minister of state to the presidency
 Took power after Sankara was killed in mysterious circumstances by a group of soldiers in 1987
 First elected president in 1991 and again in 1998
 A new constitution in 2000 limited presidents to two terms in office, and limited terms to five years
 Won two further terms
 Faced outbreaks of violence on several occasions, including a military mutiny in 2011
 Protests at attempts to amend the term limits began a year ago, fuelled by the high cost of living






Correspondents say Mr Compaore has always managed to stay in power by using a combination of conciliation and moderate force.
But the current tensions have been building for several months, and it is not clear whether he can survive this time.
Mr Compaore is a staunch ally of the US and France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for military operations against militant Islamists in the Sahel region.  
But the country is one of West Africa's poorest, and is vulnerable to changes in world prices for cotton, the economic mainstay of many Burkinabes.




More on This Story


Related Stories



In pictures: Ouagadougou protests

30 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                IN PICTURES



As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest

30 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Thomas Sankara's legacy 

30 APRIL 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore: 'What I'm doing is legal' Watch

28 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Burkina Faso profile

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA








From other news sites


The Australian*  Burkina Faso president refuses to resign 31 hrs ago


Globe and Mail  Burkina Faso president refuses to resign, parliament dissolved after violent clashes 35 hrs ago


Miami Herald  Burkina Faso president won't resign after protests 36 hrs ago


Huffington Post UK  Burkina Faso's President Declares State Of Emergency Over Protests 38 hrs ago


RTE Online  Burkina Faso army dissolves national assembly 41 hrs ago


About these results


* May require registration or subscription





Around the BBC


 Africa Today podcasts



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top stories



Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


US right-to-die advocate ends life


Facebook sets up 'dark web' service


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Thousands see Chicago high-wire act









Features & Analysis




My evil Dad

What's it like to be the child of a serial killer? 	
				  




'Angel of Kobane'

How a female Kurdish fighter became an internet legend 	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  




Rebel justice

Show of hands condemns Ukraine rape suspect to death 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: My life as a serial killer’s daughter



4: Virgin safety tool 'deployed early'



5: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Boeing 737 lands at university Watch



5: Merkel 'would accept UK EU exit' Watch



6: Virgin crash investigation begins Watch



7: Breastfeeding photo deleted by Facebook Watch



8: Inside Virgin Galactic spaceship Watch



9: Mexico tunnel reveals ancient relics  Watch



10: 100 Women: Why should we care?  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Where in the world?

Think you’re a geography expert? Test your knowledge with BBC Travel’s Geoguessr











Programmes



Click Watch

Will Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare reinvigorate the first-person shooter franchise?






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    









