BBC News - In pictures: Political violence hits Burkina Faso 







BBC News - In pictures: Political violence hits Burkina Faso
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




In Pictures







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Video & Audio
Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Have Your Say
Special Reports


























31 October 2014
Last updated at 02:32


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





In pictures: Political violence hits Burkina Faso
Protests to demand the removal of Burkina Faso's President Blaise Compaore turned violent in the capital Ouagadougou on Thursday.
Photographs by the BBC's Laeila Adjovi.


Many of those who gathered on the streets of the capital on Thursday were young. More than half of the country's 17 million population is under 25 and Blaise Compaore - in power for 27 years - is the only leader they have known.



As the security forces blocked the access to the parliament building and tried to contain the crowds with tear gas, some protesters built barricades on main streets and threw stones at the police.



For a while there was a tense stand-off between the two sides, but it did  mot last long. Gunfire was heard and MPs only just managed to escape the parliament building before it was ransacked.



“Our number is our strength,” reads the T-shirt of this protester.



Protesters also surged towards the presidential palace, and a government helicopter flying overhead fired tear gas at them, Reuters news agency reported.



Black smoke filled the air for hours near the parliament and all around Ouagadougou's city centre.



Some youngsters in the crowd proudly paraded anti-riot gear left behind by fleeing policemen. Dozens of protesters had been killed across the country by the security forces in what has been described as a "barbaric escalation of violence".



The protests forced the government to suspend Thursday's parliamentary vote on a constitutional amendment that would have lifted the limit on presidential terms so that Mr Compaore could run for office again in 2015.



Next to the parliament, the hotel where some MPs are thought to have been staying was attacked. Rooms, shops, kitchens, restaurant food and drinks were either stolen or destroyed.



By the end of Thursday the army declared a state of emergency and announced the dissolution of the government. It was the beginning of another turbulent period in Burkina Faso's recent history.





More on This Story




From other news sites


Reuters UK  UPDATE 3-Army chief takes power after Burkina president bows to protests 41 mins ago


Channel 4  Army chief takes charge in Burkina Faso after protests 55 mins ago


Telegraph  Crowds cheer downfall of Burkina Faso leader 1 hr ago


Mail Online UK  Army chief takes power after Burkina president bows to protests 1 hr ago


Sky News  Burkina Faso's President Resigns After Riots 1 hr ago


About these results













Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More In Pictures stories
RSS




In remembrance

A personal view of poppies by Lee Karen Stow



Day in pictures




Guerrilla pictures











Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    













