BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Col Isaac Zida claims presidential powers 







BBC News - Burkina Faso crisis: Col Isaac Zida claims presidential powers
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Earth   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























1 November 2014
Last updated at 08:50 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Burkina Faso crisis: Col Isaac Zida claims presidential powers


Colonel Isaac Zida has become the second military man to claim to be head of state following President Compaore's resignation


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore


Compaore's 27 years of power Watch


Burkina Faso profile



A second military officer appears to have taken power in Burkina Faso, a third leader for the West African state in 24 hours.
Colonel Isaac Zida said he had assumed the powers of head of state, and called on the international community to recognise his authority.
Earlier, army chief General Honore Traore said he had taken over.
President Blaise Compaore stood down after 27 years in power amid political unrest on the streets of the capital.
He fled the country and has now arrived in Yamoussoukro, the capital of neighbouring Ivory Coast.
A violent Thursday saw protesters set fire to parliament and government buildings in the Burkinabe capital Ouagadougou.
At least three people were killed, though opposition leaders said dozens had died.
But on Friday crowds danced and cheered in the streets after Mr Compaore's resignation was confirmed.


People celebrated after the news of the resignation was announced in Ouagadougou

His fall was prompted by an attempt to amend the constitution and extend his long hold on the presidency.
Under the country's constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns, with elections taking place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
However, in the hours after Mr Compaore's resignation Gen Traore told reporters he would assume the presidency until elections were called.
'Democratic goals'
Gen Traore's claim to power was later challenged by Col Zida, who made a national address early on Saturday.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Brigadier General Pingrenoma Zagre, right, announced Colonel Zida (l) as Burkina's Faso's transitional leader



 He saluted the protesters and offered his condolences for the loss of life, before announcing that the army had taken power "to prevent a state of anarchy that would be detrimental to the goal of democratic change".
Col Zida called for a peaceful transition, adding: "I will assume the duties of head of this transition and head of state to guarantee the continuity of the state."
There has been no report of on Gen Traore's whereabouts or his reaction to Col Zida's declaration.



At the scene: Laeila Adjovi, BBC Afrique, Ouagadougou
Confusion remains in Burkina Faso on who is going to lead the country to the next presidential election.
In Ouagadougou streets are filled with the usual traffic of motorbikes and taxis, but the main market is closed, and some shops have not reopened. The airport is not functioning, and the country's borders are closed. It seems like the "land of upright men" is holding its breath. 
Army chiefs are to meet later today and many hope the definitive name of the head of transition will finally come out of their session. Some talks are taking place amongst the opposition, but no-one has come forward to lead the transition. 
Some observers say that is because the leader of the transition won't be a candidate in the next elections, so it is more likely that an army chief fills the power vacuum.
According to Francis Sanon, who protested near the parliament on Thursday: "This is all nonsense. It is us, the people, who overthrew Blaise Compaore, not the army. We are going to watch what they are doing, and if we don't agree with the new leader, we will be back out on the street."







More on This Story


Related Stories



Rise and fall of Blaise Compaore

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Compaore's 27 years of power Watch

31 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Burkina Faso profile

02 NOVEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA





























Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




'Suicide blast' hits Nigeria's Shias

A suicide bomber blows himself up at a Shia religious ceremony in north-east Nigeria, killing about 20 people, eyewitnesses tell the BBC. 



Burkinabe army 'to hand over power'




Cup of Nations decision expected












Top stories



Virgin descent tool 'deployed early'


US right-to-die advocate ends life


Facebook sets up 'dark web' service


UK downplays Merkel 'exit warning'


Thousands see Chicago high-wire act









Features & Analysis




My evil Dad

What's it like to be the child of a serial killer? 	
				  




'Angel of Kobane'

How a female Kurdish fighter became an internet legend 	
				  




'Hidden disaster'

The deadly virus which Ebola has pushed into the sidelines 	
				  




Rebel justice

Show of hands condemns Ukraine rape suspect to death 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why typos don't really matter



2: Thousands see Chicago high-wire act



3: My life as a serial killer’s daughter



4: Virgin safety tool 'deployed early'



5: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?



Read




1: 
    Ann Maguire murder: Boy jailed for life  



2: 
    Virgin Galactic crash: Descent system 'deployed early'  



3: 
    Lynda Bellingham funeral held in Crewkerne in Somerset  



4: 
    UK to seek immigration changes despite Merkel EU 'warning'  



5: 
    Facebook sets up 'dark web' link to access network via Tor  



6: 
    #BBCtrending: Who is the 'Angel of Kobane'?  



7: 
    My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter  



8: 
    Rurik Jutting remanded in custody over Hong Kong murders  



9: 
    Ann Maguire stabbing: Killer was a 'typical, nice lad'  



10: 
    UK 'living wage' raised to £7.85 an hour  




Video/Audio




2: Man 'surfs' whale surround by sharks Watch



3: Tightrope walker 'shaking like leaf' Watch



4: Boeing 737 lands at university Watch



5: Merkel 'would accept UK EU exit' Watch



6: Virgin crash investigation begins Watch



7: Breastfeeding photo deleted by Facebook Watch



8: Inside Virgin Galactic spaceship Watch



9: Mexico tunnel reveals ancient relics  Watch



10: 100 Women: Why should we care?  Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Where in the world?

Think you’re a geography expert? Test your knowledge with BBC Travel’s Geoguessr











Programmes



Click Watch

Will Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare reinvigorate the first-person shooter franchise?






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    









