Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions 
Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions



Articles
Comments





 


Pan African Visions
Marketing African Success Stories


HOME
EDITORIAL
POLITICS
PERSPECTIVE
WOMEN
MULTIMEDIA

News
Documentaries
Interviews
Music
Comedy
Sports


INTERVIEWS
SOCIETY
BLOGS

African Show Biz
Insights Africa
Afro-Swedish Perspectives
Kamer Blues
Nigerian Round Up
Global Africa
Cumaland Diary
Ugandan Titbits
African View Points


SPORTS
LINKS



 


Pan African Visions » Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Politics » Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader

Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader
November 2nd, 2014 | 1 Comment

By ROMARIC OLLO HIEN*
Burkina Faso’s Lieutenant-Colonel Yacouba Isaac Zida (C) leaves after a meeting with the country’s military commanders on November 1, 2014 in Ouagadougou
Ouagadougou (AFP) – Burkina Faso’s opposition and civil society leaders warned Saturday against a military takeover and called a mass rally after the army stepped into the power vacuum left by the ouster of president Blaise Compaore.
The military named a high-ranking officer, Isaac Zida, to lead the country’s transition a day after Compaore was forced to resign as his plans to extend his 27-year rule exploded into violent protests that saw parliament set ablaze.
The protests have led some observers to draw a parallel with the Arab Spring, and the developments were closely watched across a continent where several other veteran heads of state are also trying to cling to power.
Zida, who beat out a rival claim by the landlocked west African nation’s army chief to lead the transition government, vowed to work closely with civil society, without giving details on a planned transition.
But opposition and civil society leaders swiftly issued a statement warning the military against a power snatch, demanding instead a “democratic and civilian transition”.
“The victory born from this popular uprising belongs to the people, and the task of managing the transition falls by right to the people. In no case can it be confiscated by the army,” they said in a statement.
They also called a new mass rally in capital Ouagadougou on Sunday at the site now nicknamed “Revolution Square” where up to a million people had gathered earlier this week to demand Compaore’s resignation.
The civil society’s call appeared to be backed by the African Union, which urged a “civilian-led and consensual transition” through free elections in the former French colony.
– ‘Smooth democratic transition’ –
Zida, the second in command of the presidential guard, said he had assumed “the responsibilities of head of the transition and of head of state” to ensure a “smooth democratic transition”.
The transition will be carried out “together with the other components of national life,” he said, referring to the political opposition and civil leaders.
The army’s endorsement was signed by General Nabere Honore Traore, who initially said he would himself assume power, a claim Zida had dismissed as “obsolete”.
“The aspirations for democratic change” of the Burkina youth “will be neither betrayed, nor disappointed”, said Zida, 49.
Speaking on television early Saturday, the military officer also said the ousted president was “in a safe place” and his “safety and well-being are assured”.
In neighbouring Ivory Coast the presidency confirmed reports that Compaore, who left Ouagadougou on Friday according to French diplomats, was in the country.
A local resident said he saw a motorcade of around 30 cars heading for a luxury hotel in the Ivorian capital, which is also used as a semi-official residence for foreign dignitaries.
“The services of the President hotel in Yamoussoukro served him (Compaore) dinner yesterday (Friday) and breakfast this morning (Saturday),” according to a hotel employee.
– Gearing up for fresh protests –
In the Burkina Faso capital, calm returned to the streets with shops reopening, but several residents told AFP they were already gearing up for fresh protests.
“We are completely against soldiers taking power,” said Salif Ouedraogo, a 38-year-old insurance agent.
“We want a civilian as head of state and tomorrow we are going to regroup at Revoluation Square to say no to military power. Even if it means that there would be bloodshed.”
Opposition figures have said around 30 people were killed in Thursday’s violence, while AFP could only confirm four deaths.
“It’s always the same people who are in power. Even though it was us, civilians, who carried out the struggle,” he said.
Others were more positive.
Adama Zongo, a trader said he was also concerned by Zida’s claim to power as the presidential guard was close to Compaore.
“We should give (Zida) time. Those who don’t want a soldier in power, who do they want?” asked Gildas Zongo, a student.
The uprising was sparked by plans to change the constitution to allow Compaore to stand once again for elections next year.
Defying massive protests, Compaore initially rejected calls to resign.
He eventually withdrew plans for a vote on the constitutional changes but vowed to stay in power for another year, before announcing on Friday that he was stepping down.
France’s President Francois Hollande said Paris would “contribute to calming” the situation in Burkina Faso, while Washington urged “a transfer of power in accordance with the constitution”.
The EU called for the people of Burkina Faso to have the final say in who rules their country.
Compaore was only 36 when he seized power in a 1987 coup in which his former friend Thomas Sankara was ousted and assassinated.
His bid to hold on to power particularly angered young people in a country where 60 percent of the population of almost 17 million is under 25.
Many have grown up under the leadership of one man and are disillusioned by the establishment that has led a country which is languishing at 181st out of 187 countries on the UN human development index.
Known in colonial times as Upper Volta, the country won independence from France in 1960 and its name was changed to Burkina Faso (“the land of upright men”) in 1984.
*Source AFP/Business Insider
 

 Written by Panafricanvisions
 



Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Politics 






One Response to "Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader"








 King Asante-Yeboa says: 

			November 2, 2014 at 8:39 am 
Nice article.
For your attention: Burkina Faso did not win independence from France. They regained their independence (liberty) from them.

Reply 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Name *
Email * (will not be published)
Website
 You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  





Current month ye@r day *




Leave this field empty *












Subscribe For UpdatesLeave Blank:Don't Change:Your email: 
Enter your email address to subscribe to receive updates when a new article is published. 

CALENDAR
November 2014


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Oct
 
 




 12


3456789


10111213141516


17181920212223


24252627282930


 

 
 


Recent Comments

Balbir Chand on Malawi app ‘teaches UK pupils 18 months of maths in six weeks’"I am very interested 
in writing maths apps for 
11 to 16 year school students…"King Asante-Yeboa on Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader"Nice article.
For your attention: Burkina Faso did not win independence from Fr…"Jerome Almon on How Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall"Compaore is a traitor to his country, his people, and the Continent and MUST be …"Jerome Almon on Africa asks: ‘If Burkina can do it, why can’t we?’"Long live the spirit and advancement of the Great Thomas Sankara!
Today Burkina…"TANGWE Abraham on Paul Kagame hints at seeking third term as Rwandan president"President Paul Kagame should not think twice. He should not allow himself to be …" 






Most commented

Game Changing Mission? African Americans Could Invest $230 Billion In Africa By 2017
"Southern Sudanese Did Not Count  On The Emergence of An Indigenous Oppressor When Opting For Secession"

Africa is the next big thing, and the place to invest says young Billionaire Ashish J Thakkar
Why Would A Black Family Get An Aquarium Membership?
Gen Sejusa Fires Warning Shots At President Museveni



Recent Articles

Latest News November 3, 2014
Zambia: Sata’s Death and the Politics of Presidential Health
“My Resignation was in the superior interest of Burkina Faso”-Blaise Compaore
The lives of the filthy rich African presidents
African migrants in Russia describe ‘hell on Earth’
Uprising has vindicated Thomas Sankara says his Widow



Tag Cloud
Health






Designed By Fiango Tech
© 2014 Pan African Visions

















