Burkina Faso - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions 
Burkina Faso - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions



Articles
Comments





 


Pan African Visions
Marketing African Success Stories


HOME
EDITORIAL
POLITICS
PERSPECTIVE
WOMEN
MULTIMEDIA

News
Documentaries
Interviews
Music
Comedy
Sports


INTERVIEWS
SOCIETY
BLOGS

African Show Biz
Insights Africa
Afro-Swedish Perspectives
Kamer Blues
Nigerian Round Up
Global Africa
Cumaland Diary
Ugandan Titbits
African View Points


SPORTS
LINKS



 


Pan African Visions » Burkina Faso

“My Resignation was in the superior interest of Burkina Faso”-Blaise Compaore
November 3rd, 2014 | Add a Comment

 By Ajong Mbapndah L
In one of his first statements since been forced to relinquish power, Blaise Compaore says he had to put country first before self and avoid what could have turned out to be a blood bath with clashes between protesters and armed forces. In the statement making rounds within the media, Compaore who has taken refuge in Ivory Coast, said the interest of Burkina Faso came before all else including his own personal … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective


Uprising has vindicated Thomas Sankara says his Widow
November 3rd, 2014 | Add a Comment

 - Mariam Sankara expresses suport for civilian managed transition
By Ajong Mbapndah L
The widow of late President Thomas Sankara, Mariam, has thrown her weight behind the uprising which toppled President Blaise Compaore in Burkina Faso. It is a vindication of Thomas Sankara says Mariam in a statement full of  gratitude and support to the youth, civil society and political leaders who worked in synergy to thwart designs to change the constitution and forced Compaore out of … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured


Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader
November 2nd, 2014 | 1 Comment

 By ROMARIC OLLO HIEN*
Ouagadougou (AFP) – Burkina Faso’s opposition and civil society leaders warned Saturday against a military takeover and called a mass rally after the army stepped into the power vacuum left by the ouster of president Blaise Compaore.
The military named a high-ranking officer, Isaac Zida, to lead the country’s transition a day after Compaore was forced to resign as his plans to extend his 27-year rule exploded into violent protests that saw parliament … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Politics


How Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall
November 1st, 2014 | 1 Comment

 By Thomas Fessy*
There was just one more year to go before change could finally come, through the next presidential election.
After 27 years of Blaise Compaore, the people of Burkina Faso were set to wait patiently until November 2015.
But Mr Compaore’s attempt to force a constitutional change sparked near unanimous outrage.
“It’s as if he was disconnected from reality or not acknowledging what was going on,” Rinaldo Depagne, director of ICG’s West Africa programme, said.
“With nearly a … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Politics


Lieutenant colonel assumes power in Burkina Faso after president flees
November 1st, 2014 | Add a Comment

 By Romaric Ollo Hien*
Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso) (AFP) – The second in command of Burkina Faso’s presidential guard, Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida, said on Saturday he had taken power after deposed President Blaise Compaore reportedly fled the capital.
Zida declared a rival claim by army chief Navere Honore Traore was “obsolete” in a televised speech.
The tussle for power comes after an extraordinary week of violent protest against Compaore’s 27-year rule that saw parliament stormed and set ablaze.
Zida, … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Politics


Burkina Faso’s Blaise Campaore says his last word
November 1st, 2014 | Add a Comment

 Blaise Campaore’s 27 year rule was brought to an eventful end after unrelenting demonstrations against a bid to extend his reign as president of Burkina Faso. But the country’s long road to democratic rule has only just begun.
A chaotic melee of violent demonstrations, against an attempt by President Blaise Campoare to tweak that country’s constitution and seek a fifth presidential term, this week shook Burkina Faso to its political foundations.
Thursday morning was marked by unprecedented … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Politics


Africa asks: ‘If Burkina can do it, why can’t we?’
November 1st, 2014 | 1 Comment

 News that Burkina Faso’s long-serving leader Blaise Compaore had been pushed out of power prompted an explosion of comment from across Africa Friday, with many citizens asking, “If they can do it, why can’t we?”
As images of tens of thousands jubilant Burkinabe were seen from Harare to Banjul, Twitter and other social media sites saw citizens pointing the finger at their own long-serving leaders.
“Let this be a warning to all African leaders who wish to … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Editorial, Entertainment, Perspective, Politics


Burkina Faso army announces emergency measures
October 30th, 2014 | Add a Comment

 A resident told the BBC he saw MPs’ homes on fire, reports Lebo Diseko
Burkina Faso’s military has announced emergency measures – including the formation of a transitional government – after a day of violent protests.
Demonstrators angered by President Blaise Compaore’s bid to extend his 27-year rule earlier set fire to parliament and government buildings.
Protesters in the capital, Ouagadougou, are calling for him to resign.
The emergency moves announced by army chief Gen Honore Traore did not … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Society


Protesters march on Burkina presidency after burning parliament
October 30th, 2014 | 1 Comment

 BY MATHIEU BONKOUNGOU AND JOE PENNEY*
Thousands of protesters marched on Burkina Faso’s presidential palace after burning the parliament building and ransacking state television offices on Thursday, forcing President Blaise Compaore to scrap a plan to extend his 27-year rule.
Emergency services said at least three protesters were shot dead and several others wounded by security forces when the crowd tried to storm the home of Compaore’s brother. Security forces also fired live rounds and tear gas … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Countries, Featured, Perspective, Politics, Society


Don’t Let Ebola Dehumanize Africa
October 30th, 2014 | Add a Comment

 By ANGELIQUE KIDJO*
A few days ago, I posted a note on Facebook about my scheduled concert next week at Carnegie Hall honoring the late South African singer Miriam Makeba, who was known widely as Mama Africa. I was saddened to see the following comments appear: “Instead of mama africa it should be mamaebola” and “I wonder if she is bringing aby Ebloa [sic] with her?”
Overnight it seems that all the naïve and evil preconceptions about … Read entire article »

Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Health, Opinion, Perspective



Next Page »





Subscribe For UpdatesLeave Blank:Don't Change:Your email: 
Enter your email address to subscribe to receive updates when a new article is published. 

CALENDAR
November 2014


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Oct
 
 




 12


3456789


10111213141516


17181920212223


24252627282930


 

 
 


Recent Comments

Balbir Chand on Malawi app ‘teaches UK pupils 18 months of maths in six weeks’"I am very interested 
in writing maths apps for 
11 to 16 year school students…"King Asante-Yeboa on Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader"Nice article.
For your attention: Burkina Faso did not win independence from Fr…"Jerome Almon on How Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall"Compaore is a traitor to his country, his people, and the Continent and MUST be …"Jerome Almon on Africa asks: ‘If Burkina can do it, why can’t we?’"Long live the spirit and advancement of the Great Thomas Sankara!
Today Burkina…"TANGWE Abraham on Paul Kagame hints at seeking third term as Rwandan president"President Paul Kagame should not think twice. He should not allow himself to be …" 






Most commented

Game Changing Mission? African Americans Could Invest $230 Billion In Africa By 2017
"Southern Sudanese Did Not Count  On The Emergence of An Indigenous Oppressor When Opting For Secession"

Africa is the next big thing, and the place to invest says young Billionaire Ashish J Thakkar
Why Would A Black Family Get An Aquarium Membership?
Gen Sejusa Fires Warning Shots At President Museveni



Recent Articles

Latest News November 3, 2014
Zambia: Sata’s Death and the Politics of Presidential Health
“My Resignation was in the superior interest of Burkina Faso”-Blaise Compaore
The lives of the filthy rich African presidents
African migrants in Russia describe ‘hell on Earth’
Uprising has vindicated Thomas Sankara says his Widow



Tag Cloud
Health






Designed By Fiango Tech
© 2014 Pan African Visions
















