Burkina Faso army announces emergency measures - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions 
Burkina Faso army announces emergency measures - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions



Articles
Comments





 


Pan African Visions
Marketing African Success Stories


HOME
EDITORIAL
POLITICS
PERSPECTIVE
WOMEN
MULTIMEDIA

News
Documentaries
Interviews
Music
Comedy
Sports


INTERVIEWS
SOCIETY
BLOGS

African Show Biz
Insights Africa
Afro-Swedish Perspectives
Kamer Blues
Nigerian Round Up
Global Africa
Cumaland Diary
Ugandan Titbits
African View Points


SPORTS
LINKS



 


Pan African Visions » Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Society » Burkina Faso army announces emergency measures

Burkina Faso army announces emergency measures
October 30th, 2014 | Add a Comment

Parliament was ransacked and set ablaze
A resident told the BBC he saw MPs’ homes on fire, reports Lebo Diseko
Burkina Faso’s military has announced emergency measures – including the formation of a transitional government – after a day of violent protests.
Demonstrators angered by President Blaise Compaore’s bid to extend his 27-year rule earlier set fire to parliament and government buildings.
Protesters in the capital, Ouagadougou, are calling for him to resign.
The emergency moves announced by army chief Gen Honore Traore did not say who would lead the interim administration.
At a press conference, he declared the imposition of an overnight curfew, as well as the dissolution of parliament.
Gen Traore announced that a “transitional body [would] be put in place in consultation with all parties”.
“A return to the constitutional order is expected in no more than 12 months,” he said.
President Compaore later said he would hand over power at the end of the transitional government.
He earlier issued a statement, declaring the emergency and saying that the head of the armed forces was in charge of implementing the decision.
 

 
The protests in the capital – the most serious yet against Mr Compaore’s rule – forced MPs to abandon a vote aimed at allowing the president to seek re-election in 2015.
BBC West Africa correspondent Thomas Fessy says the people of Burkina Faso are still waiting to hear who will lead their country.
As confusion prevails, he says, the violence may spread.
Cars were also in flames
The main opposition leader, Zephirin Diabre, told a local radio station the state of emergency was unacceptable.
“We are calling on the people to show that they are against it,” he was quoted as saying. “The resignation of President Blaise Compaore is the only thing that can bring peace to the country.”
At least one person has been killed in the protests, says BBC Afrique’s Yacouba Ouedraogo in the capital.
Mr Diabre said dozens of protesters had been killed across the country by the security forces in a “barbaric escalation of violence”.
The BBC’s Laeila Adjovi: “All around me there’s black smoke”
The military fired live bullets to try to disperse protesters who had occupied parliament, our correspondent says.
Protesters also surged towards the presidential palace, and a government helicopter flying overhead fired tear gas at them, Reuters news agency reported.
Witnesses say dozens of soldiers joined the protest in Ouagadougou’s main square, including a former defence minister, Gen Kouame Lougue.
Protesters demanded his installation as president, our reporter says.
‘TV off air’
The city hall, the homes of MPs, and an upmarket hotel in Ouagadougou were also set ablaze.
Similar protests hit the south-western city of Bobo Dioulasso, and other towns in the poor West African state.

Blaise Compaore



President Blaise Compaore spoke to the BBC earlier this week


Served under President Thomas Sankara as minister of state to the presidency
Took power after Sankara was killed in mysterious circumstances by a group of soldiers in 1987
First elected president in 1991 and again in 1998
A new constitution in 2000 limited presidents to two terms in office, and limited terms to five years
Won two further terms
Protests at attempts to amend the term limits began a year ago, fuelled by the high cost of living


State television went off air after protesters stormed the building housing it and ransacked it.
A statement by the president announced the dissolution of the government “so as to create the conditions for change”.
It called upon opposition leaders to put a stop to protests and pledged talks to end the crisis.
UN chief Ban Ki-moon’s special envoy for West Africa, Mohamed Ibn Chambas, will fly to Burkina Faso on Friday to try to ease the crisis, the UN said.
Mr Compaore first took power in a coup in 1987, and has won four disputed elections since then.
The protests forced the government to suspend Thursday’s parliamentary vote on a constitutional amendment that would have lifted the limit on presidential terms so that Mr Compaore could run for office again in 2015.
Mr Compaore is a staunch ally of the US and France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for military operations against militant Islamists in the Sahel region.
*Source BBC
 

 Written by Panafricanvisions
 



Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Perspective, Society 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Name *
Email * (will not be published)
Website
 You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  





Current month ye@r day *




Leave this field empty *












Subscribe For UpdatesLeave Blank:Don't Change:Your email: 
Enter your email address to subscribe to receive updates when a new article is published. 

CALENDAR
November 2014


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Oct
 
 




 12


3456789


10111213141516


17181920212223


24252627282930


 

 
 


Recent Comments

Balbir Chand on Malawi app ‘teaches UK pupils 18 months of maths in six weeks’"I am very interested 
in writing maths apps for 
11 to 16 year school students…"King Asante-Yeboa on Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader"Nice article.
For your attention: Burkina Faso did not win independence from Fr…"Jerome Almon on How Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall"Compaore is a traitor to his country, his people, and the Continent and MUST be …"Jerome Almon on Africa asks: ‘If Burkina can do it, why can’t we?’"Long live the spirit and advancement of the Great Thomas Sankara!
Today Burkina…"TANGWE Abraham on Paul Kagame hints at seeking third term as Rwandan president"President Paul Kagame should not think twice. He should not allow himself to be …" 






Most commented

Game Changing Mission? African Americans Could Invest $230 Billion In Africa By 2017
"Southern Sudanese Did Not Count  On The Emergence of An Indigenous Oppressor When Opting For Secession"

Africa is the next big thing, and the place to invest says young Billionaire Ashish J Thakkar
Why Would A Black Family Get An Aquarium Membership?
Gen Sejusa Fires Warning Shots At President Museveni



Recent Articles

Latest News November 3, 2014
Zambia: Sata’s Death and the Politics of Presidential Health
“My Resignation was in the superior interest of Burkina Faso”-Blaise Compaore
The lives of the filthy rich African presidents
African migrants in Russia describe ‘hell on Earth’
Uprising has vindicated Thomas Sankara says his Widow



Tag Cloud
Health






Designed By Fiango Tech
© 2014 Pan African Visions

















