Burkina Faso: With or Without Compaoré, Times of Uncertainty - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions 
Burkina Faso: With or Without Compaoré, Times of Uncertainty - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions



Articles
Comments





 


Pan African Visions
Marketing African Success Stories


HOME
EDITORIAL
POLITICS
PERSPECTIVE
WOMEN
MULTIMEDIA

News
Documentaries
Interviews
Music
Comedy
Sports


INTERVIEWS
SOCIETY
BLOGS

African Show Biz
Insights Africa
Afro-Swedish Perspectives
Kamer Blues
Nigerian Round Up
Global Africa
Cumaland Diary
Ugandan Titbits
African View Points


SPORTS
LINKS



 


Pan African Visions » Burkina Faso, Editorial, Opinion, Perspective » Burkina Faso: With or Without Compaoré, Times of Uncertainty

Burkina Faso: With or Without Compaoré, Times of Uncertainty
July 27th, 2013 | Add a Comment

For the first time since 1987, succession is being openly discussed in Burkina Faso. Under the current constitution, President Blaise Compaoré, in power for more than a quarter century, is not allowed to contest the presidency in 2015. Any attempt to amend the constitution for a fifth-term bid could provoke a repeat of the 2011 popular uprisings. However, even if Compaoré abides by the constitution and leaves power in 2015, his succession may still prove challenging as he has dominated the political scene for decades, placing severe restrictions on political space. International partners must encourage him to uphold the constitution and prepare for a smooth, democratic transition.
Preserving Burkina Faso’s stability is all the more important given that the country is located at the centre of an increasingly troubled region, with the political and military crisis in neighbouring Mali possibly spilling over into Niger, another border country. Burkina Faso has been spared similar upheaval so far thanks to its internal stability and robust security apparatus, but deterioration of the political climate in the run-up to 2015 could make the country more vulnerable. A presidential election is also due in 2015 in Côte d’Ivoire, a country with which Burkina Faso has very close ties. This special relationship and the presence of a significant Burkinabe community in the country mean that a political crisis in Ouagadougou could have a negative impact on a still fragile Côte d’Ivoire.
Burkina Faso also holds significant diplomatic influence in West Africa. Over the past two decades under Blaise Compaoré’s rule, the country has become a key player in the resolution of regional crises. The president and his men have succeeded, with much ingenuity, in positioning themselves as indispensable mediators or as “watchdogs” helping Western countries monitor the security situation in the Sahel and the Sahara. A crisis in Burkina Faso would not only mean the loss of a key ally and a strategic base for France and the U.S., it would also reduce the capacity of an African country in dealing with regional conflicts. The collapse of the Burkinabe diplomatic apparatus would also mean the loss of an important reference point for West Africa that, despite limitations, has played an essential role as a regulatory authority.
There is real risk of socio-political crisis in Burkina Faso. Since coming to power in 1987, Blaise Compaoré has put in place a semi-authoritarian regime, combining democratisation with repression, to ensure political stability – something his predecessors have never achieved. This complex, flawed system is unlikely to be sustained, however. It revolves around one man who has dominated political life for over two decades and has left little room for a smooth transition. In fact, there are few alternatives for democratic succession. The opposition is divided and lacks financial capacity and charismatic, experienced leaders; and none of the key figures in the ruling party has emerged as a credible successor. If Compaoré fails to manage his departure effectively, the country could face political upheaval similar to that which rocked Côte d’Ivoire in the 1990s following the death of Félix Houphouët-Boigny.
Another threat to Burkina Faso’s stability is social explosion. The society has modernised faster than the political system, and urbanisation and globalisation have created high expectations for change from an increasingly young population. Despite strong economic growth, inequalities are widespread and the country is one of the poorest in the world. Repeated promises of change have never been fulfilled, and this has led to broken relations between the state and its citizens as well as a loss of authority at all levels of the administration. Public distrust sparked violent protests in the first half of 2011 that involved various segments of the society, including rank-and-file soldiers in several cities.
For the first time, the army appeared divided between the elites and the rank and file, and somewhat hostile to the president, who has sought to control the defence and security apparatus from which he had emerged. The crisis was only partially resolved, and local conflicts over land, traditional leadership and workers’ rights increased in 2012. Such tensions are especially worrying given the country’s history of social struggle and revolutionary tendencies since the 1983 Marxist-inspired revolution.
Blaise Compaoré’s long reign is showing the usual signs of erosion that characterises semi-autocratic rule. Several key figures of his regime have retired, including the mayor of Ouagadougou, Simon Compaoré – not a relative of the president – who managed the country’s capital for seventeen years; and billionaire Oumarou Kanazoé, who until his death was a moderate voice among the Muslim community. In addition, the death of Libya’s Muammar Qadhafi, a major financial partner, was a blow to Compaoré’s regime.
President Compaoré has responded to these challenges with reforms that have not met popular expectations and have only scratched the surface. Further, he has remained silent on whether he will actually leave office in 2015. He has concentrated power, in the country and within his Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP) party, in the hands of a small circle of very close allies and family members, including his younger brother François Compaoré, who was elected to parliament for the first time on 2 December 2012. The president’s silence and his brother’s political ascent continue to fuel uncertainty.
President Compaoré has less than three years left to prepare his departure and prevent a succession battle or a new popular uprising.
No matter what he has done to transform his country, the death of his close friend Thomas Sankara will remain part of Compaore’s legacy
He is the only actor capable of facilitating a smooth transition. By upholding the constitution and resisting the temptation of dynastic succession, he could preserve stability, the main accomplishment of his long rule. Any other scenario would pave the way for a troubled future. Similarly, the opposition and civil society organisations should act responsibly and work to create conditions for a democratic process that would preserve peace and stability. International partners, in particular Western allies, should no longer focus exclusively on Compaoré’s mediation role and the monitoring of security risks in West Africa; they should also pay close attention to domestic politics and the promotion of democracy in Burkina Faso.
Dakar/Brussels, 22 July 2013
*Source International Crisis Group
 

 Written by Panafricanvisions
 



Filed under: Burkina Faso, Editorial, Opinion, Perspective 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Name *
Email * (will not be published)
Website
 You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  





Current month ye@r day *




Leave this field empty *












Subscribe For UpdatesLeave Blank:Don't Change:Your email: 
Enter your email address to subscribe to receive updates when a new article is published. 

CALENDAR
November 2014


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Oct
 
 




 12


3456789


10111213141516


17181920212223


24252627282930


 

 
 


Recent Comments

Balbir Chand on Malawi app ‘teaches UK pupils 18 months of maths in six weeks’"I am very interested 
in writing maths apps for 
11 to 16 year school students…"King Asante-Yeboa on Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader"Nice article.
For your attention: Burkina Faso did not win independence from Fr…"Jerome Almon on How Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall"Compaore is a traitor to his country, his people, and the Continent and MUST be …"Jerome Almon on Africa asks: ‘If Burkina can do it, why can’t we?’"Long live the spirit and advancement of the Great Thomas Sankara!
Today Burkina…"TANGWE Abraham on Paul Kagame hints at seeking third term as Rwandan president"President Paul Kagame should not think twice. He should not allow himself to be …" 






Most commented

Game Changing Mission? African Americans Could Invest $230 Billion In Africa By 2017
"Southern Sudanese Did Not Count  On The Emergence of An Indigenous Oppressor When Opting For Secession"

Africa is the next big thing, and the place to invest says young Billionaire Ashish J Thakkar
Why Would A Black Family Get An Aquarium Membership?
Gen Sejusa Fires Warning Shots At President Museveni



Recent Articles

Latest News November 3, 2014
Zambia: Sata’s Death and the Politics of Presidential Health
“My Resignation was in the superior interest of Burkina Faso”-Blaise Compaore
The lives of the filthy rich African presidents
African migrants in Russia describe ‘hell on Earth’
Uprising has vindicated Thomas Sankara says his Widow



Tag Cloud
Health






Designed By Fiango Tech
© 2014 Pan African Visions

















