Burkina Faso’s Compaore resigns after violent protests | Premium Times Nigeria 

Burkina Faso’s Compaore resigns after violent protests | Premium Times Nigeria












 Monday, November 3, 2014 


Opinion
About Us
Contact Us
Advert Rates
Play Games





 











   




 




Home
News

Regional
News Headline Stories

More News

Top News



Explosion rocks Yobe as suicide bomber strikesA bomb attack has reportedly occurred in Potiskum, Yobe state.The American University of Nigeria to Host 4th Annual HomecomingHomecoming is an American university tradition that fosters oneness, loyalty to alma mater, and reunion …House of Representatives cannot reconvene abruptly without Tambuwal’s permission – Spokesperson“The procedure for reconvening or Re-Assembly of the House is contained in the House Standing …
 



Investigations
Business

Business Agriculture

Aviation

Banking and Finance

Energy

Manufacturing

Oil and Gas

Technology



Oil workers issue 14 days ultimatum to government over alleged victimisation of membersThe unions issued the threat to draw government’s attention to pressing issues in the oil …Nigerian govt to prosecute Coca-Cola, NBC executives over product qualityCoca-Cola and NBC allegedly put up substandard products in the market.Shell appoints new board chairmanMr. Holliday will succeed Jorma Ollila who is stepping down from the Board having served …
 



Foreign

West Africa
Africa
World


Arts/Life

Arts/Life Arts/Books

Kannywood

Lifestyle

Music

Nollywood

Travel



9 ways to live healthy in NigeriaDo not underestimate the power of sleep and water.The journey of the electron, By Perry Brimah“Praise to the Lord who made systems the best human technology cannot”.My concert will correct misconceptions about Fuji music- Kwam 1Kwam 1 says Fuji music cannot be isolated from other genres of music in Nigeria.
 



Opinion
Sports
Oil/Gas Reports

Oil/Gas Reports FAAC Reports

Revenue



FAAC: FG, States, LGs share N603.5bn for Sept.Accountant General of the Federation, Jonas Otunla, said although the FAAC meeting held late in …Infographic: Marginal fields and its poor performanceMarginal fields are oil and gas reserves usually too small for production to be economically …Fuel crisis looms across Nigeria as supply drops by 36 million litresNNPC workers are pressing for the resolution of issues regarding pensions’ management.
 



Parliament Watch
2014 CONFAB
 










Burkina Faso’s Compaore resigns after violent protests

October 31, 2014Premium Times 

 




Burkina Faso’s President Blaise Compaore, one of Africa’s longest-serving autocrats, has resigned, forced out of power by a popular revolt over his attempt to extend his 27-year rule by additional five years.
Mr. Compaore is no longer in power, the army confirmed Friday, a day after protesters set fire on the parliament, marched on the presidential villa and at least three people died.
Mr. Compaore had earlier said he would step down after a 12-month transitional government had ended.
However, the opposition continued to demand that he resign, angry at his attempts to amend the constitution and extend his rule.
The army imposed curfew Thursday and announced a transitional government that will last one year, but refused to state clearly who will lead the government.
The head of the armed forces, General Honore Traore, had earlier dissolved parliament and announced talks with all political parties.
Hundreds of soldiers in Burkina Faso on Thursday joined demonstrators opposing plans to extend Mr. Compaore’s nearly three-decade rule, Radio France Internationale reported.
EmailPrintFacebookTwitterMoreTumblrLinkedInPinterestPocketPress ThisGoogleStumbleUponReddit 

SHARING



EmailPrintFacebookTwitterMoreTumblrLinkedInPinterestPocketPress ThisGoogleStumbleUponReddit 
 







Recent Stories


 House of Representatives cannot reconvene abruptly without Tambuwal’s permission – Spokesperson  

 Restore Tambuwal’s security now, NBA tells Nigeria Police chief  

 Five PDP members killed in Bayelsa boat accident  

 Boko Haram ceasefire: Tell Nigerians the truth, APC urges Jonathan  

 2015: Jonathan warns against ‘do or die’ politics  









Chris1408



My siddon look country men, are you taking notes. GEJ is worse than Campaore. When are we gonna do the right thing for the generations behind us?






israel amulum



nonsense






Tonnero



Tonne sense to you. Plenty of sense to us..governments must be accountable to the people whether APC or PDP. When they become a problem and checks and balances break down because they have been subverted either by bribes or by intimidation, the people should rise up and take back what belongs to them. GEJs government is the worst in the history of Nigeria and that will not change because you Igbos say you are benefitting from it. Benefits from a good government should be across the board and not sectional. It should not be age, gender, ethnicity, region or religiously biased. And I do not want to hear about past governments. The fact that they are bad does not mean we should continue the same way.






Wähala



Call an animal by its name and leave Igbos out of your tirade.  Who spoke for Ndigbo to you and with whose mandate, in what capacity?  Igbos are the only ethnic group without a Kabiyesi all man must bow to, kapisch?  No Sultan, No Emir.  Whoever aired an opinion did so purely on solitary basis and that is no basis for you to direct igbo-induced trash at all Igbos.  I am Igbo and a better critic of this evil administration than you or anyone you know.  Next slip and I will stick my foot into the dirty ahnus you think with… Didinrin!








Wähala



Gorilla!










Alex



Good to hear; the old man resigned. One only hope that peace return the nation. Congratulations to the indefatigable voices of Burkina Faso.






Bo Biz



Compaore resigned? Somebody must have held a gun to his head.Happy felicitations to  brave burkinabes who have risen to take back control of their country from the vampires.All the compaores  in Africa including Nigeria must all go down.








TAWANDA INCOMMUNICADO



Campaore must be tried for the assassination of Thomas Sankara whom he betrayed and who was the most revolutionary west African leader to emerge in the 80s






Dr Pat Kolawole Awosan



Campaore was a betrayer who betrayed and assassinated Thomas Sankara the former president of Burkina Faso,and took power and had been in power for twenty seven years.Campaore must be made to face criminal charges for the assasination of late revolutionary leader of Burkina Faso,president Thomas Sankara.






lawiri



What goes around comes around. Compaore has been used and dumped by France !








King Carlos



This should  be a lesson to our corrupt politicians and our unprofessional security agencies. When the arab spring happened people thought it can’t happen in sub saharan Africa. Here we are now. the people of Burkina Faso have successfully changed a government so we can do it too with our votes. But if our votes don’t count, we will have no choice but to REVOLT.






Wähala



Dumbo is worse than Campore, ten times worse.  Yet, Nigerians are waiting for Boko Harm to evade Aso Rock and chase away the ugly Gorilla pounding his chest with corruption.  Mumus in Mumudom… soon, they will flood here with yeye congratulatory comments to Burkinababes.  Cowards.  How many of them have joined Oby Ezekwesili in her little #BBOG campaign?  None.  Instead, na daily barrage of insult they haul at her and her motley crew of protestors.  Imagine common Burkina Farso…






austine007



In our world today nobody is common… Bro. Nigeria is yet to witness violence… I hope you know that the western world rated us (Nigerians) as the happiest people on earth? Have you forgotten that the man who smiles and jokes alot has the must deadliest anger and brute force??? Food for thought Bro.!






Nonsense



What of the Robert Mugabe of Nigeria?…or if you like, ‘the presidential candidate emeritus’ and the author and finisher of the obnoxiously draconian decrees 2 & 4 of 1984? Spiuuuuussssshhhhh……..Nonsense!








Ade



Kudos to the people of Burkina Faso. GEJ is the next irresponsible president to be chased out with our votes.






Tunsj



The people of Burkina Faso did the right thing. I doubt the same thing will happen in Nigeria, because many Nigerians are timid.






Bo Biz



Most Nigerians are bigoted imbeciles,and habitual cowards that’ll prefer to mournfully cry for eternity than exercise their inalienable rights to freedom and equality.






austine007



They are using religion to brainwash them!!!






Tunsj



Agreed.








austine007



Timid? Why OBJ no succeed? Try and see if Nigerians are indeed timid… Several years ago comedians joked and said “we can’t have suicide bombers in naija” Today they will be sorry if they said that!!!








AHMED SARKI



Dont worry Tambual people are with you.






felix



it must be me , remember campore so let d people chose who will govern them






oma law



He who betray his bosom friend will never go unpunished. This is just the begining. The ghost of Thomas Sankara is coming!!!






Guguru



To suggest this cannot happen in Nigeria, is false. June 12 happened. Boko Haram happened, and so we shall have a revolution one day too.






basset eniang



Except God, what is, will pass! It took only 4 days and the blood sacrifice of 5 citizens! The message.. power truly resides with determined people who refuse to be intimidated and do not fear death.. or accept it willingly! 






igbiki



IBB = ABACHA






Chief Ovie Obaro, JP



Since Ex-President Comparoare is roaming about looking for where to stay, I hereby urge great Jona to be his brother’s keeper and grant
the traitor political asylum. The continent Nigerian govt should therefore look for a suitable and very comfortable accommodation for him in Mubi  town or Sambissa garden city where he will have eternal peace. Nonsense!









Search Our Stories
 
 


Subscribe to News via Email

Enter your email address and receive notifications of news by email.Join 1,441 other subscribers


					Email Address				











 
 
















    
    
    
	                
                
                
	









﻿


		



Classified



Place your adverts on @premiumtimesng at VERY LOW cost #Classified



Place your adverts on @premiumtimesng at VERY LOW cost #Classified



Place your adverts on @premiumtimesng at VERY LOW cost #Classified



Place your adverts on @premiumtimesng at VERY LOW cost #Classified



Place your adverts on @premiumtimesng at VERY LOW cost #Classified



Place your adverts on @premiumtimesng at VERY LOW cost #Classified




 



Arts & Entertainment

Arts/Books
Nollywood
Kannywood
Lifestyle
Music


Business

Aviation
Banking and Finance
Energy


News

Features And Interviews
Africa
Investigation/Special Reports


Regional

North Central
North East
North West
South East
South South
South West


About Us

Advert Rates
Our Reporters/Writers
Contact Us


Search
Submit News





All content is Copyrighted © 2014 The Premium Times, Nigeria.











Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address



Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






























