Mass rally against extending Burkina president's mandate - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions 
Mass rally against extending Burkina president's mandate - Pan African Visions | Pan African Visions



Articles
Comments





 


Pan African Visions
Marketing African Success Stories


HOME
EDITORIAL
POLITICS
PERSPECTIVE
WOMEN
MULTIMEDIA

News
Documentaries
Interviews
Music
Comedy
Sports


INTERVIEWS
SOCIETY
BLOGS

African Show Biz
Insights Africa
Afro-Swedish Perspectives
Kamer Blues
Nigerian Round Up
Global Africa
Cumaland Diary
Ugandan Titbits
African View Points


SPORTS
LINKS



 


Pan African Visions » Burkina Faso, Featured, Politics » Mass rally against extending Burkina president’s mandate

Mass rally against extending Burkina president’s mandate
August 24th, 2014 | 1 Comment

Burkinabe opposition supporters take part in an opposition rally in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso on August 23, 2014 (AFP Photo/Ahmed Ouoba)
Ouagadougou (AFP) – Tens of thousands of people marched Saturday in the capital of Burkina Faso to protest against any move by the president to extend his decades-hold on power, in the latest such opposition rally.

Blaise Compaore, an often controversial titan of west African politics, has hinted he may seek a referendum on whether to change the constitution to allow him to run in 2015 polls.
Organisers said more than 100,000 protesters had taken part in the Ouagadougou rally in what they termed “record mobilisation.” AFP was unable to get a police estimate.
The rally spanned several kilometres and demonstrators marched to the presidency and back, shouting slogans such as “No to the referendum”, “Enough of Compaore’s dictatorship” or “No need for a strongman in Burkina.”
Roch Marc Christian Kabore, who used to be close to the president but has since become head of the MPP opposition party, said people had mobilised “against life-long power”.
Anger has been growing against the planned referendum on whether to modify the constitution, which limits the president to a maximum of two five-year terms in office.
Compaore was only 36 when he seized power in an October 1987 coup in which his former friend and one of Africa’s most loved leaders, Thomas Sankara, was ousted and assassinated.
He has remained in power since then. In 2005, constitutional limits were introduced and Compaore is therefore coming to the end of his second five-year term.
He has hinted that the referendum may be held in December, but no official decision has been made.
Observers say opposition to any attempt by Compaore to cling to power is driven by youth in a country where 60 percent of the 17 million-strong population is under 25.
This means they have spent their entire lives under the leadership of one man and — with the poor former French colony stagnating at around 183rd out of 186 countries on the UN human development index — many have had enough.
*Source Yahoo /AP
 

 Written by Panafricanvisions
 



Filed under: Burkina Faso, Featured, Politics 






One Response to "Mass rally against extending Burkina president’s mandate"








 King Asante-Yeboa says: 

			August 27, 2014 at 9:58 pm 
FOR THE SAKE OF CONTINUITY OF DEMOCRACY, FOR THE CONTINUAL PEACEFUL ADVANCEMENT OF THE COUNTRY, MR BLAISE CAMPAORE, PLEASE RESPECT THE TERM LIMITS FIXED IN THE CONSTITUTION.

Reply 








Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Name *
Email * (will not be published)
Website
 You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  





Current month ye@r day *




Leave this field empty *












Subscribe For UpdatesLeave Blank:Don't Change:Your email: 
Enter your email address to subscribe to receive updates when a new article is published. 

CALENDAR
November 2014


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Oct
 
 




 12


3456789


10111213141516


17181920212223


24252627282930


 

 
 


Recent Comments

Balbir Chand on Malawi app ‘teaches UK pupils 18 months of maths in six weeks’"I am very interested 
in writing maths apps for 
11 to 16 year school students…"King Asante-Yeboa on Burkina Faso braces for new protest as military names interim leader"Nice article.
For your attention: Burkina Faso did not win independence from Fr…"Jerome Almon on How Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall"Compaore is a traitor to his country, his people, and the Continent and MUST be …"Jerome Almon on Africa asks: ‘If Burkina can do it, why can’t we?’"Long live the spirit and advancement of the Great Thomas Sankara!
Today Burkina…"TANGWE Abraham on Paul Kagame hints at seeking third term as Rwandan president"President Paul Kagame should not think twice. He should not allow himself to be …" 






Most commented

Game Changing Mission? African Americans Could Invest $230 Billion In Africa By 2017
"Southern Sudanese Did Not Count  On The Emergence of An Indigenous Oppressor When Opting For Secession"

Africa is the next big thing, and the place to invest says young Billionaire Ashish J Thakkar
Why Would A Black Family Get An Aquarium Membership?
Gen Sejusa Fires Warning Shots At President Museveni



Recent Articles

Latest News November 3, 2014
Zambia: Sata’s Death and the Politics of Presidential Health
“My Resignation was in the superior interest of Burkina Faso”-Blaise Compaore
The lives of the filthy rich African presidents
African migrants in Russia describe ‘hell on Earth’
Uprising has vindicated Thomas Sankara says his Widow



Tag Cloud
Health






Designed By Fiango Tech
© 2014 Pan African Visions

















