Burkina Faso army chief General Honore Traore | Africa - News and Analysis 

Burkina Faso army chief General Honore Traore | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 









Tag Archives: Burkina Faso army chief General Honore Traore

Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover

Posted on November 2, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
Burkina Faso: Opposition urges protest at army takeover
Opposition groups are concerned about the military’s involvement
Opposition parties and civic groups in Burkina Faso have called a mass rally for Sunday in protest at the army takeover after the resignation of President Blaise Compaore.
They said the management of the transition belonged to the people and should not be confiscated by the army.
It came hours after the army said Lt-Col Isaac Zida, second-in-command of the presidential guard, had been chosen as the nation’s transitional leader.
Mr Compaore has fled to Ivory Coast.
A house belonging to the ousted president’s brother was ransacked
The unveiling of Lt-Col Zida as interim leader came after what analysts say was a power struggle within the army
The parliament building in Ouagadougou was set on fire by protesters on Thursday
“The victory born from this popular uprising belongs to the people, and the task of managing the transition falls by right to the people,” opposition groups said in a statement.
“In no case can it be confiscated by the army.”
There were protests earlier this week after Mr Compaore sought to amend the constitution and extend his long hold on the presidency.
On Thursday, protesters set fire to parliament and government buildings in the capital Ouagadougou.
‘Opposition weak’
The BBC’s Thomas Fessy, following events from Senegal, says there is growing concern among the population that events may now be hijacked by a military coup.
But in a country where the ousted president has dominated the political scene for nearly three decades, the opposition remains weak and the turnout at the rally will be a measure of its credibility, our correspondent says.

Brigadier General Pingrenoma Zagre, right, announced Colonel Zida (l) as Burkina’s Faso’s transitional leader



The army’s response will show if the new man in charge, Lieutenant Colonel Zida, is ready to respect the wishes of the people, our correspondent adds.
Under the country’s constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns, with elections taking place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
The African Union has called for a “civilian-led transition” culminating as soon as possible in “the holding of free, fair and transparent elections”.
In a statement, AU chief Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma urged the military to “refrain from any acts or statements that may lead to further instability”.
The US state department urged an immediate transfer of power to civilian authorities in Burkina Faso and a move towards free and fair presidential elections.
The unveiling of Lt-Col Zida as interim leader came after what analysts say was a 24-hour power struggle within the army.
The army statement’s was signed by army chief General Honore Traore, who had declared himself head of state in the immediate aftermath of President Compaore’s resignation.


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Comapore, Brigadier General Pingrenoma Zagre, Burkina Faso army chief General Honore Traore, Burkina opposition to army rule, Burkina protests, Isaac Zida 



Power Struggle in Burkina Faso

Posted on November 1, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
Burkina Faso: Military divided over who rules
Colonel Isaac Zida has become the second military man to claim to be head of state following President Compaore’s resignation
A split has emerged within Burkina Faso’s armed forces over who is leading the country following the resignation of President Blaise Compaore after 27 years in power.
The presidential guard’s second in command, Colonel Isaac Zida, says he has assumed power as head of state.
Earlier, army chief General Honore Traore said he had taken over.
Crowds danced and cheered in the capital Ouagadougou after Mr Compaore’s resignation was announced on Friday.
It came a day after protesters angry at his attempt to amend the constitution and extend his 27-year hold on the presidency set fire to parliament and government buildings.
Army chief Gen Honore Traore (centre) said he had taken over as head of state on Friday
People celebrated after the news of the resignation was announced in Ouagadougou

Speaking on Saturday, Col Zida said Gen Traore’s claim to be head of state was now “obsolete”.
“I now assume… the responsibilities of head of the transition and of head of state to assure the continuation of the state” and a “smooth democratic transition”, said Col Zida in a televised address quoted by AFP news agency.
And Reuters quoted Col Zida, in a statement read out on local radio, as saying: “I assume the functions of head of state and I call on (West African regional bloc) Ecowas and the international community to demonstrate their understanding and support the new authorities.”
Friday saw Mr Compaore issue a statement saying the presidency was now vacant, and urging elections within 90 days.
His whereabouts are now unclear.
Under Article 43 of the constitution, the president of the senate should take over after the president resigns, and elections should take place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
However, the military announced a state of emergency and the dissolution of both houses of parliament on Thursday – effectively leaving a power vacuum.


BBC News looks back at Blaise Compaore’s three decades of power


Blaise Compaore was a young army officer when he seized power in 1987. A taciturn man, he became known as Beau Blaise – good-looking Blaise. The nickname did not necessarily suggest he was popular. Many blamed him for the death of his predecessor, the charismatic revolutionary Thomas Sankara, who was killed by soldiers in mysterious circumstances.
Controversy would be a perpetual feature of Beau Blaise’s time in power. The president was accused of stoking rebellions around West Africa. Yet over time Mr Compaore oversaw a transformation of his image, internationally at least. This inflammatory figure became a man relied upon to put out fires around the region.
Mr Compaore won a series of elections, though the opposition always complained the odds were stacked dramatically in his favour. He largely followed the economic orthodoxy prescribed by international financial institutions. But Burkina Faso did not escape the poverty trap. It remains one of the least developed countries in the world.


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Burkina Faso army chief General Honore Traore, Burkina power struggle Compaore overthrown, Colonel Isaac Zida, General Honore Traore 



Burkina Faso – army dissolves government amid protests

Posted on October 31, 2014 | Leave a comment


DW/allAfrica
Burkina Faso Army Dissolves Government




Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in the Burkina Faso capital Ouagadougou on October 28 in opposition to plans by President Blaise Compaore to … ( Resource: Protesters Topple Statue of Burkina Faso President

The chief of Burkina Faso’s army has dissolved the government and said that a transitional government will be formed. The announcement came shortly after the president reportedly declared a state of emergency.
Burkina Faso’s government was forced to resign on Thursday following increasingly violent protests against the country’s president.
Several hours after opposition lawmakers and high-level military officials met, Burkina Faso army chief, General Honore Traore, told reporters in the capital that the government had been dissolved.
“A transitional body will be put in place in consultation with all parties,” Traore said.
The temporary governing body would hold power “no more than 12 months,” he added.
A curfew was also put into place for 7:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. local time.
Protests escalate
Mass protests broke out in the capital city Ouagadougou earlier this week over a planned amendment to the constitution which would extend President Blaise Compaore’s 27-year grip on power.
On Thursday, the demonstrations escalated, with thousands pouring onto the capital city’s streets and a group of protesters storming the parliament building. There, they set fire to the main chamber.
Burkina Faso’s public broadcasters also came under attack when groups of demonstrators forced their way into the buildings. State television and radio subsequently ceased broadcast operations during the day.


Other cities across the country reported blazes being set to properties belonging to politicians of the ruling political party Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP), including in the second-largest city Bobo-Dioulasso and in the central city of Koudougou.
At least one person was killed in the violence, according to security forces.
State of emergency report
Shortly before General Traore’s announcement, President Compaore reportedly declared a state of emergency.
An announcer from local radio station Radio Omega FM had read the statement from the office of the presidency, which also purported that the leader would seek talks with opposition leaders.
The long-time leader’s whereabouts remain unknown.
The explosive protests have raised concern in the international community, with the EU, the US and the UN calling for all sides to refrain from violence and seek a peaceful, political solution.
On Thursday, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon dispatched special envoy Mohamed Ibn Chambas to the region to help restore calm.
President Compaore seized power in 1987, and his bid to keep his position has angered much of the public, including many young people, in a country where 60 percent of the population is under 25.
kms/sb (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa) allAfrica




Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Compaore, Burkina army, Burkina Faso, Burkina Faso army chief General Honore Traore, Burkina protests, Thomas Sankara 








Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		













						Africa – News and Analysis					


Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.				



Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com




Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to



Cancel







 













