Power Struggle in Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis 

Power Struggle in Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 










← Nigeria – bus station bomb in Gombe
Burkina Faso – Compaore’s rise and fall →


Power Struggle in Burkina Faso

Posted on November 1, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
Burkina Faso: Military divided over who rules
Colonel Isaac Zida has become the second military man to claim to be head of state following President Compaore’s resignation
A split has emerged within Burkina Faso’s armed forces over who is leading the country following the resignation of President Blaise Compaore after 27 years in power.
The presidential guard’s second in command, Colonel Isaac Zida, says he has assumed power as head of state.
Earlier, army chief General Honore Traore said he had taken over.
Crowds danced and cheered in the capital Ouagadougou after Mr Compaore’s resignation was announced on Friday.
It came a day after protesters angry at his attempt to amend the constitution and extend his 27-year hold on the presidency set fire to parliament and government buildings.
Army chief Gen Honore Traore (centre) said he had taken over as head of state on Friday
People celebrated after the news of the resignation was announced in Ouagadougou

Speaking on Saturday, Col Zida said Gen Traore’s claim to be head of state was now “obsolete”.
“I now assume… the responsibilities of head of the transition and of head of state to assure the continuation of the state” and a “smooth democratic transition”, said Col Zida in a televised address quoted by AFP news agency.
And Reuters quoted Col Zida, in a statement read out on local radio, as saying: “I assume the functions of head of state and I call on (West African regional bloc) Ecowas and the international community to demonstrate their understanding and support the new authorities.”
Friday saw Mr Compaore issue a statement saying the presidency was now vacant, and urging elections within 90 days.
His whereabouts are now unclear.
Under Article 43 of the constitution, the president of the senate should take over after the president resigns, and elections should take place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
However, the military announced a state of emergency and the dissolution of both houses of parliament on Thursday – effectively leaving a power vacuum.


BBC News looks back at Blaise Compaore’s three decades of power


Blaise Compaore was a young army officer when he seized power in 1987. A taciturn man, he became known as Beau Blaise – good-looking Blaise. The nickname did not necessarily suggest he was popular. Many blamed him for the death of his predecessor, the charismatic revolutionary Thomas Sankara, who was killed by soldiers in mysterious circumstances.
Controversy would be a perpetual feature of Beau Blaise’s time in power. The president was accused of stoking rebellions around West Africa. Yet over time Mr Compaore oversaw a transformation of his image, internationally at least. This inflammatory figure became a man relied upon to put out fires around the region.
Mr Compaore won a series of elections, though the opposition always complained the odds were stacked dramatically in his favour. He largely followed the economic orthodoxy prescribed by international financial institutions. But Burkina Faso did not escape the poverty trap. It remains one of the least developed countries in the world.
Share this:StumbleUponTumblrPinterestLinkedInGoogleMoreTwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

							This entry was posted in Africa - International, West Africa and tagged Burkina Faso army chief General Honore Traore, Burkina power struggle Compaore overthrown, Colonel Isaac Zida, General Honore Traore. Bookmark the permalink.							


← Nigeria – bus station bomb in Gombe
Burkina Faso – Compaore’s rise and fall →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		











Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










%d bloggers like this:








