Emergency rule declared in Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis 

Emergency rule declared in Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 










← Burkina Faso – protestors march on presidential palace
Burkina Faso – Comapaore refuses to step down →


Emergency rule declared in Burkina Faso

Posted on October 30, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
30 October 2014
Burkina Faso army announces emergency measures
As it happened: Burkina Faso unrest
Thomas Sankara’s legacy
Compaore: ‘What I’m doing is legal’ Watch
Burkina Faso’s military has announced emergency measures – including the formation of a transitional government – after a day of violent protests.
Demonstrators angered by President Blaise Compaore’s bid to extend his 27-year rule earlier set fire to parliament and government buildings.
Protesters in the capital, Ouagadougou, are calling for him to resign.
The emergency moves announced by army chief Gen Honore Traore did not say who would lead the interim administration.
At a press conference, he declared the imposition of an overnight curfew, as well as the dissolution of parliament.
Gen Traore announced that a “transitional body [would] be put in place in consultation with all parties”.
“A return to the constitutional order is expected in no more than 12 months,” he said.
Earlier, President Compaore issued a statement, declaring the emergency and saying that the head of the armed forces was in charge of implementing the decision.
The protests in the capital – the most serious yet against Mr Compaore’s rule – forced MPs to abandon a vote aimed at allowing the president to seek re-election in 2015.
The defence forces have been trying to disperse the protesters
The main opposition leader, Zephirin Diabre, told a local radio station the state of emergency was unacceptable.
“We are calling on the people to show that they are against it,” he was quoted as saying. “The resignation of President Blaise Compaore is the only thing that can bring peace to the country.”
At least one person has been killed in the protests, says BBC Afrique’s Yacouba Ouedraogo in the capital.
Mr Diabre said dozens of protesters had been killed across the country by the security forces.
It was a “barbaric escalation of violence”, he said.
The military fired live bullets to try and disperse protesters who had occupied parliament, our correspondent says.
Protesters also surged towards the presidential palace, and a government helicopter flying overhead fired tear gas at them, Reuters news agency reports.
The BBC’s Laeila Adjovi: “All around me there’s black smoke”
Witnesses say dozens of soldiers have joined the protest in Ouagadougou’s main square, including a former defence minister, Gen Kouame Lougue.
Protesters are demanding his installation as president, our reporter says.
‘TV off air’
The city hall, the homes of MPs, and an upmarket hotel in Ouagadougou were also set ablaze.
Similar protests hit the south-western city of Bobo Dioulasso, and other towns in the poor West African state.
Blaise Compaore
President Blaise Compaore spoke to the BBC earlier this week
Served under President Thomas Sankara as minister of state to the presidency
Took power after Sankara was killed in mysterious circumstances by a group of soldiers in 1987
First elected president in 1991 and again in 1998
A new constitution in 2000 limited presidents to two terms in office, and limited terms to five years
Won two further terms
Protests at attempts to amend the term limits began a year ago, fuelled by the high cost of living
State television went off air after protesters stormed the building housing it and ransacked it.
“A state of emergency is declared across the national territory,” the president’s statement said, as quoted by Reuters.
“The chief of the armed forces is in charge of implementing this decision which enters into effect today.
“I dissolve the government from today so as to create conditions for change. I’m calling on the leaders of the political opposition to put an end to the protests. I’m pledging from today to open talks with all the actors to end the crisis.”
UN chief Ban Ki-moon’s special envoy for West Africa, Mohamed Ibn Chambas, will fly to Burkina Faso on Friday in an attempt to ease the crisis, the UN said in a statement.
Mr Compaore first took power in a coup in 1987, and has won four disputed elections since then.
The protests forced the government to suspend Thursday’s parliamentary vote on a constitutional amendment that would have lifted the limit on presidential terms so that Mr Compaore could run for office again in 2015.
Mr Compaore is a staunch ally of the US and France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for military operations against militant Islamists in the Sahel region.




Share this:StumbleUponTumblrPinterestLinkedInGoogleMoreTwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

							This entry was posted in Africa - International, West Africa and tagged Blaise Compaore, Burkina Faso emergency, Burkinabe army, Compaore presidency. Bookmark the permalink.							


← Burkina Faso – protestors march on presidential palace
Burkina Faso – Comapaore refuses to step down →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		











Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










%d bloggers like this:








