Lieutenant colonel assumes power in Burkina Faso after president flees - Yahoo News 
Lieutenant colonel assumes power in Burkina Faso after president flees - Yahoo News





   HomeMailNewsSportsFinanceWeatherGamesGroupsAnswersScreenFlickrMobileMoreCelebrityMoviesMusicTVHealthStyleBeautyFoodParentingDIYTechShoppingTravelAutosHomes                        Sign In     Mail      Help    Account Info Help Suggestions      













Follow Yahoo News







 on Facebook





 on Twitter





 on Tumblr





 on Google+





 on Flickr


















News Home


U.S.


World


Politics


Tech


Science


Health


Odd News


Local


Dear Abby


Comics


ABC News


Yahoo Originals


Photos


















Lieutenant colonel assumes power in Burkina Faso after president flees







By Romaric Ollo Hien
November 1, 2014 12:38 AM


































Content preferences




Done












.
View gallery






 


.





 


.





 


.





 


.















Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso) (AFP) - The second in command of Burkina Faso's presidential guard, Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida, said on Saturday he had taken power after deposed President Blaise Compaore reportedly fled the capital.Zida declared a rival claim by army chief Navere Honore Traore was "obsolete" in a televised speech.The tussle for power comes after an extraordinary week of violent protest against Compaore's 27-year rule that saw parliament stormed and set ablaze.Zida, who is leading a group of young army officers, said he had assumed "the responsibilities of head of the transition and of head of state" to ensure a "smooth democratic transition". "The aspirations for democratic change" of the Burkina youth "will be neither betrayed, nor disappointed," he said.He told journalists that the former president, who was said to have fled the capital Ougadougou, was "in a safe place" and his "safety and well-being are assured".




View gallery


 

Burkinabe Lieutenant-Colonel Issaac Zida of the presidential guard reads a press release by the army …
Earlier, Zida ordered the closure of the country's borders.A French diplomatic source told AFP that Compaore was travelling south towards the town of Po near the border with Ghana.The source said he was still in the country and had not asked for refuge in France, the former colonial power.The uprising, which has drawn parallels with the Arab Spring, was sparked by plans to change the constitution to allow Compaore to stand once again for elections next year.Compaore is one of several sub-Saharan African leaders who have stayed in power for decades, and the protests are being closely watched across the continent where at least four heads of state are pressing for similar constitutional changes to cling to power.




View gallery


 

The burnt inside of the parliament in Ouagadougou pictured on October 31, 2014, a day after it was s …
- Compaore's 'henchman' -Army chief Traore stated on Friday that he was assuming power as head of state, a day after he ordered the dissolution of the government and a dusk-to-dawn curfew. But many protesters are deeply opposed to him taking power, seeing him as a close ally of Compaore. "We do not want General Traore in power. We need someone credible. Traore is Blaise Compaore's henchman," said Monou Tapsoaba, an activist with the opposition People's Movement for Progress.Zida appears to have more legitimacy with civil society. He appeared before large crowds alongside lawyer Guy Herve Kam, leader of the Citizen Broom group that helped lead the demonstrations, in Place de la Nation on Friday.




View gallery


 

Burkina Faso's then president Blaise Compaore speaks at the Presidential Palace in Ouagadougou o …
One opposition leader, Benewende Sankara, described Traore's move as a "coup".Another opposition chief, Zephirin Diabre, told AFP he hoped the two military factions would forge an agreement."We await the army's plans for the transition. We will tell them what we think," he said.Many of the tens of thousands massed on the streets of the capital have called for retired general and former defence minister Kouame Lougue to take control, shouting: "Lougue in power!"France's President Francois Hollande vowed that Paris would "contribute to calming" the situation in its former colony, while Washington urged "a transfer of power in accordance with the constitution".




View gallery


 

People loot on October 31, 2014 what is salvageable inside the burnt parliament in Ouagadougou a day …
The EU called for the people of Burkina Faso to have the final say in who rules their country.The crisis is the worst in Burkina Faso since a wave of mutinies shook the country in 2011. Compaore had initially rejected calls to resign. He withdrew plans for a vote on the constitutional changes but vowed to stay in power for another year. He was only 36 when he seized power in a 1987 coup in which his former friend Thomas Sankara was ousted and assassinated.His bid to cling to power angered many, particularly young people in a country where 60 percent of the population of almost 17 million is under 25.Many have spent their entire lives under the leadership of one man and are disillusioned by the establishment running the poor former French colony, which is stagnating at 183rd out of 186 countries on the UN human development index.The death toll from Thursday's violence -- the peak of the unrest -- was given as "around 30" by two opposition leaders. "October 30 is Burkina Faso's 'Black Spring', like the Arab Spring," Emile Pargui Pare, an official from opposition party the Movement of People for Progress, told AFP.Known in colonial times as Upper Volta, the landlocked country became independent from France in 1960 and its name was changed to Burkina Faso ("the land of upright men") in 1984.Politics & GovernmentBurkina FasoBlaise Compaore





Click to view comments


View Comments (3)











 













   What to read next            Trending     Retrial, Really? The Relentless Obsession to Execute Jodi Arias         Goliath Encounter: Puppy-Sized Spider Surprises Scientist in Rainfores … Sponsored            Trending     Expelled Nazis paid millions in Social Security          Trending     Swedish navy widens search for mystery submarine          Trending     How a surge in Puerto Rican voters is changing Florida politics         Woman rescued from Thousand Oaks chimney belonging to man she met onli … Sponsored            Trending     Police hunt for clues near where Va. remains found          Trending     Nikon Small World 2014          Trending     Obama makes rare campaign trail appearance, people leave early          Trending     Sweden says credible reports of foreign submarine in its waters       
   Latest Slideshows            Photos   View   Wallenda completes Chicago skyscraper wire walks         Images of the week: Tokyo, London, Antarctica Sponsored AFP Relax News           Photos   View   Photos of the day - November 2, 2014          Photos   View   2014 NYC Marathon          Photos   View   Suicide bombing on Pakistani-Indian border         Trick Or Treaters killed Sponsored Associated Press           Photos   View   Photos of the day - November 1, 2014          Photos   View   Fatal fire in Maine          Photos   View   NYC Halloween Parade          Photos   View   Virgin Galactic space tourism rocket explodes after take off       


   Latest Video                 14:02   Play   American Couple Held in Qatar Speaks: 'We Are Being Kidnapped' 14:02         OBAMA FACES HECKLERS IN FINAL CAMPAIGN PUSH Sponsored TouchVision                00:44   Play   Battle for Kobani rages on with arrival of Peshmerga 00:44               00:51   Play   Eastern Ukraine Votes for New Leaders in Russia-backed Election 00:51               01:42   Play   Obama, Yellen Prepare for First One-on-One Meeting 01:42         Putin Turning More Antagonistic, Not Desperate: Bremmer Sponsored Bloomberg                03:11   Play   Obama, Christie campaign for Pa. gov. candidates 03:11               03:37   Play   Remembering “Fargo” 03:37       
   Top Stories                'Death with dignity' advocate ends her life         Virgin Galactic spaceship insured for $40-50 million Sponsored Reuters               Thieves steal 'Arbeit Macht Frei' gate from Dachau death camp              Key function of crashed Virgin spacecraft deployed early: investigator …              U.S. student debt burden falling more on top earners, easing bubble fe …         With Senate at stake, candidates clash over Obama Sponsored Associated Press               Political ad blizzard traumatizes Arkansas              What Ebola has taught us about handling Mars soil samples              Seven rescued, 24 drown as migrant boat capsizes off Istanbul              Wallenda completes Chicago skyscraper wire walks       





© 2014 AFP





Yahoo - ABC News Network


Help / Suggestions


Privacy


About Our Ads


Terms











































