Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis 

Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 









Tag Archives: Burkina Faso

← Older posts



Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”

Posted on November 3, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
Burkina Faso crisis: Army promises ‘transition body’
Burkina Faso’s military has said it will install a transitional government, days after it seized power as President Blaise Compaore’s resigned.
The move came after soldiers had fired shots at the state TV station and barricaded the capital’s main square as thousands of protesters demanded the military give up power.
At least one demonstrator was killed in Sunday’s clashes.
The UN has also condemned the military takeover and threatened sanctions.
Long-time leader Mr Compaore quit on Thursday, following days of anti-government protests.
The army named Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida as the leader of a transitional government on Saturday.
However, thousands of protesters gathered on Sunday in the capital Ouagadougou, demonstrating against the army.
On Sunday evening, following a meeting with key opposition figures, a military spokesman said the army would put in place “a transition body… with all the components to be adopted by a broad consensus”.
“Power does not interest us, only the greater interest of the nation,” the military said in a statement (in French).
Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida is currently acting head of state
A protester holds up a sign in French that reads “Zida get out” during a rally at the Place de la Nation
It had been necessary to disperse protesters to “restore order”, the statement said, adding that one demonstrator outside the state TV station had died.
There were chaotic scenes at the state broadcaster’s headquarters on Sunday, as both opposition leader Saran Sereme and former Defence Minister Kwame Lougue turned up to a rally.
It is believed that both had gone there, separately, to announce that they could head the transition government.
However, shortly after they arrived, gunfire broke out and staff and protesters fled.
Witnesses told the BBC that soldiers had fired in the air to disperse protesters before forcing journalists to leave.
National television resumed broadcasting a few hours later.
Troops also cleared protesters from the capital’s main square, Place de la Nation.

At the scene: Laeila Adjovi, BBC News, Ouagadougou




Jump media player
Media player help

Out of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.



Laeila Adjovi in Ouagadougou: There are claims of violence against civilians


After the confusion of these past few days, the situation was very tense on Sunday in Burkina Faso’s capital.
People were back on the streets this morning to demand the return of civilian rule.
But then shots were fired next to the national television station and people were scared, fleeing in all directions. After that, we saw crowds disperse and flee every time they saw an army vehicle.
Some are angry at the army. Other says the latest violence is the responsibility of the presidential guard – commanded by Col Zida.
‘Country in chaos': Voices from Ouagadougou

On Sunday evening, key opposition figures met Col Zida for talks.
Those present included Zephirin Diabre, leader of the Union for Progress and Change, former Foreign Minister Ablasse Ouedraogo, ex-Prime Minister Roch Marc Christian Kabore and Benewende Sankara, leader of the Union for Rebirth – Sankarist Party.
Col Zida (left) met opposition leaders for talks on Sunday
However, Ms Sereme reportedly left before the talks began and there were no details on what was discussed.
Mass protests first erupted last week when long-time leader Mr Compaore attempted to extend his 27-year rule.
Parts of the parliament building were set on fire, and the president fled to Ivory Coast.
Under Burkina Faso’s constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns and an election should take place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
The African Union, the US and regional economic bloc Ecowas have all condemned the military takeover.
The UN’s West Africa envoy Mohamed Ibn Chambas said the military must allow a civilian transfer of power, and sanctions were a possibility if this did not happen.


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Benewende Sankara, Burkina Faso, Burkina Faso unrest, Burkinable army, Compaore flees, ex-Prime Minister Roch Marc Christian Kabore, former Foreign Minister Ablasse Ouedraogo, leader of the Union for Rebirth - Sankarist Party., Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida, Union for Progress and Change, Zida promises transition 



Burkina Faso – army backs Zida

Posted on November 1, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
1 November 2014
Army backs new Burkina Faso leader Isaac Zida
Colonel Isaac Zida has become the second military man to claim to be head of state following President Compaore’s resignation
Burkina Faso army chiefs have backed a military officer as transitional president.
In a statement, the army said Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida was “chosen unanimously to lead the transition period”.
This appears to end confusion over who has succeeded President Blaise Compaore, who stood down amid unrest.
The statement was signed by army chief General Honore Traore, who had earlier declared himself head of state.
The parliament building in Ouagadougou was set on fire by protesters on Thursday
Mr Compaore, who quit after 27 years as president, fled the country and is now in Yamoussoukro, the capital of neighbouring Ivory Coast.
A statement from the office of President Alassane Ouattara said Ivory Coast took in Mr Compaore, his family and those close to him and was paying “particular attention” to events in Burkina Faso, news agency AP reported.
A statement by Colonel Isaac Zida said he had assumed control of Burkina Faso
The BBC’s Thomas Fessy, monitoring events from Senegal, says celebrations at Mr Compaore’s departure are being replaced by concerns that this popular uprising may have been jeopardised by yet another military coup.
Lt-Col Zida, previously second in command of the presidential guard, was, like Gen Traore, very close to the former president, and his rise raises questions over the army’s intentions.
Under the country’s constitution, the president of the Senate should take over after the national president resigns, with elections taking place between 60 and 90 days afterwards.
Protests began earlier this week after Mr Compaore sought to amend the constitution and extend his long hold on the presidency.
On Thursday, protesters set fire to parliament and government buildings in the capital, Ouagadougou.

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-29863004


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Burkina army, Burkina Faso, Compaore overthrown, Isaac Zida, Thomas Sankara 



Burkina Faso – Isaac Zida says he has taken power not Traore

Posted on November 1, 2014 | Leave a comment


Mail and Guardian
Isaac Zida says he has taken power after a week of violent protest against President Blaise Compaore’s 27-year rule .

 
Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida said on Saturday that he had taken power after deposed President Blaise Compaore (pictured) reportedly fled the capital. (AFP)
 


The second in command of Burkina Faso’s presidential guard, Lieutenant Colonel Isaac Zida, said on Saturday he had taken power after deposed President Blaise Compaore reportedly fled the capital.
Zida declared a rival claim by army chief Navere Honore Traore was “obsolete” in a televised speech. The tussle for power comes after an extraordinary week of violent protest against Compaore’s 27-year rule that saw Parliament stormed and set ablaze. Zida, who is leading a group of young army officers, said he had assumed “the responsibilities of head of the transition and of head of state” to ensure a “smooth democratic transition”.
“The aspirations for democratic change” of the Burkina youth “will be neither betrayed, nor disappointed,” he said. He told journalists that the former president, who was said to have fled the capital Ougadougou, was “in a safe place” and his “safety and well-being are assured”. Earlier, Zida ordered the closure of the country’s borders.
A French diplomatic source told AFP that Compaore was travelling south towards the town of Po near the border with Ghana. The source said he was still in the country and had not asked for refuge in France, the former colonial power.
The uprising, which has drawn parallels with the Arab Spring, was sparked by plans to change the Constitution to allow Compaore to stand once again for elections next year. Compaore is one of several sub-Saharan African leaders who have stayed in power for decades, and the protests are being closely watched across the continent where at least four heads of state are pressing for similar constitutional changes to cling to power.
Army chief Traore stated on Friday that he was assuming power as head of state, a day after he ordered the dissolution of the government and a dusk-to-dawn curfew. But many protesters are deeply opposed to him taking power, seeing him as a close ally of Compaore.
‘We need someone credible’
“We do not want General Traore in power. We need someone credible. Traore is Blaise Compaore’s henchman,” said Monou Tapsoaba, an activist with the opposition People’s Movement for Progress. Zida appears to have more legitimacy with civil society. He appeared before large crowds alongside lawyer Guy Herve Kam, leader of the Citizen Broom group that helped lead the demonstrations, in Place de la Nation on Friday.
One opposition leader, Benewende Sankara, described Traore’s move as a “coup”. Another opposition chief, Zephirin Diabre, told Agence France-Presse he hoped the two military factions would forge an agreement.
“We await the army’s plans for the transition. We will tell them what we think,” he said. Many of the tens of thousands massed on the streets of the capital have called for retired general and former defence minister Kouame Lougue to take control, shouting: “Lougue in power!”
France’s President Francois Hollande vowed that Paris would “contribute to calming” the situation in its former colony, while Washington urged “a transfer of power in accordance with the constitution”. The EU called for the people of Burkina Faso to have the final say in who rules their country. The crisis is the worst in Burkina Faso since a wave of mutinies shook the country in 2011.
Compaore had initially rejected calls to resign. He withdrew plans for a vote on the constitutional changes but vowed to stay in power for another year. He was only 36 when he seized power in a 1987 coup in which his former friend Thomas Sankara was ousted and assassinated.
Cling to power
His bid to cling to power angered many, particularly young people in a country where 60% of the population of almost 17-million is under 25. Many have spent their entire lives under the leadership of one man and are disillusioned by the establishment running the poor former French colony, which is stagnating at 183rd out of 186 countries on the UN human development index.
The death toll from Thursday’s violence – the peak of the unrest – was given as “around 30” by two opposition leaders. “October 30 is Burkina Faso’s ‘Black Spring’, like the Arab Spring,” Emile Pargui Pare, an official from opposition party the Movement of People for Progress, told AFP. Known in colonial times as Upper Volta, the landlocked country became independent from France in 1960 and its name was changed to Burkina Faso (“the land of upright men”) in 1984. – AFP  M&G




Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Burkina Faso, Burkina protests, Colonel Isaac Zida, Compaore resigns, Honore Traore 



Burkina Faso – Compaore’s rise and fall

Posted on November 1, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
How Burkina Faso’s Blaise Compaore sparked his own downfall
By Thomas Fessy BBC West Africa correspondent 
Blaise Compaore sparked public anger after he tried to extend his 27-year rule
There was just one more year to go before change could finally come, through the next presidential election.
After 27 years of Blaise Compaore, the people of Burkina Faso were set to wait patiently until November 2015.
But Mr Compaore’s attempt to force a constitutional change sparked near unanimous outrage.
“It’s as if he was disconnected from reality or not acknowledging what was going on,” Rinaldo Depagne, director of ICG’s West Africa programme, said.
“With nearly a million people in the streets [in a country of 17 million], any sensible politician would have withdrawn their proposed bill.”
But he didn’t.
Country on edge
Frustration and anger had been growing over the past few years in Burkina Faso and there had been multiple warnings that the society was on the edge of a social-political crisis.
Violent protests erupted in 2011 throughout the country.
On Thursday, demonstrators set Burkina Faso’s parliament on fire
First out were the students, following the death of one of their number in police custody.
Shopkeepers, traders, magistrates, lawyers, peasants and finally the rank-and-file soldiers followed.
But they didn’t form a mass movement and this is what “saved Blaise Compaore”, according to Mr Depagne, who lived in Burkina Faso for a number of years.
The opposition parties were not able to build a political platform to offer an alternative based on the people’s discontent at high prices, low wages and Mr Compaore’s undivided rule.
Yet, these upheavals lasted several months in the first half of 2011.
There hadn’t been such major demonstrations since the murder of the investigative journalist Norbert Zongo at the end of 1998.
Mr Zongo was investigating the killing of the driver of Francois Compaore, the then-president’s younger brother and special adviser.
He had himself warned his readership that he may end up being killed after he received a series of death threats.
The murder of Norbert Zongo marked a turning point for many Burkinabes
His murder – which the government initially claimed was an accident – sparked unprecedented demonstrations.
To many, the Zongo case was a turning point during Mr Compaore’s regime. The opposition was too divided to overthrow the system but “it created confidence among citizens about their own rights,” Mr Depagne said.
Symbolic statue
There was an overwhelming presence of youth in this week’s protests. Half of the country’s population is believed to be under 18 and flocking to cities where unemployment fuels frustration.
Despite the economic growth, Burkina Faso remains at the very bottom of the United Nations’ Human Development Index, making it one of the world’s poorest countries.
The landlocked nation is heavily dependent on international aid, especially since one of its major financial partners, Col Muammar Gaddafi, was killed during the Libyan uprising in 2011.
Repeated promises of change haven’t been fulfilled during Mr Compaore’s rule, allowing public distrust to grow.
Mr Compaore was close to former Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi
Yet, Mr Compaore imposed himself as an indispensable regional mediator and had become the strongest ally to France and the US in the region.
He showed capacity to resolve crises – despite his own history of backing rebels and fuelling civil wars in the West African neighbourhood – and more importantly, he used his networks to help Western powers battling Islamist militancy in the Sahel.
Hours before Mr Compaore resigned, a letter he had received earlier this month from French President Francois Hollande – who has now welcomed his resignation – emerged in the media to reveal that France was ready to support him in finding a job within the international community at the end of his mandate, if he withdrew his proposed bill on presidential term limits.
But this wasn’t enough. And there was one particular scene during this popular unrest earlier in the week that could have had Mr Compaore worried.
Angered youth took down a statue of him in Bobo Dioulasso, the country’s second largest city.
Quite symbolically, the statue was erected in the mid-1990s next to that of Col Gaddafi, who had just visited the country.
Even though that signal was probably the strongest yet, Mr Compaore still thought he could get his bill passed in parliament two days later.
Instead, he precipitated his own downfall.


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Compaore, Burkina Faso, Burkina Faso revolt, Colonel Isaac Zida, Honore Traore, Thomas Sankara 



Burkina Faso – army takes over from Compaore

Posted on October 31, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
Burkina Faso general takes over as Compaore resigns
People celebrate after the news of the resignation was announced in Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso’s President Blaise Compaore has announced his resignation, following violent protests at his attempt to extend his 27-year rule.
Mr Compaore issued a statement saying the presidency was now vacant and urging elections within 90 days.
Military chief Gen Honore Traore said he had taken over as head of state “in line with constitutional measures”.
Crowds danced and cheered in the capital, Ouagadougou, after Mr Compaore’s resignation was broadcast.
On Thursday, protesters angry at his attempt to amend the constitution had set fire to parliament and government buildings.
‘Social peace’
Mr Compaore had earlier vowed to remain in power until a transitional government completed its work in 2015, although he had agreed not to seek another term.
Thousands gathered in the Place de la Nation in the capital
Honore Traore, centre, announces that he has taken over
Thursday’s violent protests vented anger at Blaise Compaore’s rule

However, the opposition continued to demand that he resign – a key leader, Zephirin Diabre, urged protesters to occupy public spaces.
After the resignation, Mr Diabre told the BBC’s Focus on Africa radio programme: “We are all relieved by what is happening – and this is our demand for so long so we are very happy – and we need to work on the transition to take care of our country.”
But the BBC’s Yacouba Ouedraogo, in Ouagadougou, says that many demonstrators see Gen Traore as too close to the ousted president – he was Blaise Compaore’s aide de camp – and not enough of a rupture with the past.
Mr Compaore’s statement, read on television, said: “In order to preserve the democratic gains, as well as social peace, I declare a power vacuum to allow the establishment of a transition leading to free and fair elections within a maximum of 90 days.”
He added: “For my part, I think I have fulfilled my duty.”

President Compaore had earlier urged talks with all parties


His whereabouts now remain unclear.
However, Reuters news agency reported that a heavily armed convoy believed to be carrying Mr Compaore was travelling towards the southern town of Po.
One protester, Sam, told the BBC: “Blaise Compaore has gone away, he’s running away and we are happy. The words are not coming so easy because I’m very happy, my children are going to know another president.”
France welcomed the resignation, saying it “allows a solution to be found to the crisis”.
In a statement, Gen Traore said: “In line with constitutional measures, and given the power vacuum… I will assume as of today my responsibilities as head of state.”
He added: “I undertake a solemn engagement to proceed without delay with consultations with all parties in the country so as to start the process of returning to the constitutional order as soon as possible.”
An army spokesman, Lt Col Isaac Zida, later told reporters the constitution had been suspended, but it was unclear whether he was speaking on behalf of Gen Traore.

BBC’s James Copnall on Blaise Compaore’s career




Jump media player
Media player help

Out of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.



BBC News looks back at Blaise Compaore’s three decades of power


Blaise Compaore was a young army officer when he seized power in 1987, a taciturn man who became known as Beau Blaise – good looking Blaise. The nickname did not necessarily suggest he was popular. Many blamed him for the death of his predecessor, the charismatic revolutionary Thomas Sankara, who was killed by soldiers in mysterious circumstances.
Controversy would be a perpetual feature of Beau Blaise’s time in power. The president was accused of stoking rebellions around West Africa. Yet over time Mr Compaore oversaw a transformation of his image, internationally at least. This inflammatory figure became a man relied upon to put out fires around the region.
Mr Compaore won a series of elections, though the opposition always complained the odds were stacked dramatically in his favour. He largely followed the economic orthodoxy prescribed by international financial institutions. But Burkina Faso did not escape the poverty trap. It remains one of the least developed countries in the world.


Leave a comment

Posted in Southern Africa 

Tagged Burkina Faso, Burkina protests, Burkinabe general takes over, Compaore resigns, General Honore Traore, Zephirin Diabre 



Burkina Faso – army dissolves government amid protests

Posted on October 31, 2014 | Leave a comment


DW/allAfrica
Burkina Faso Army Dissolves Government




Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in the Burkina Faso capital Ouagadougou on October 28 in opposition to plans by President Blaise Compaore to … ( Resource: Protesters Topple Statue of Burkina Faso President

The chief of Burkina Faso’s army has dissolved the government and said that a transitional government will be formed. The announcement came shortly after the president reportedly declared a state of emergency.
Burkina Faso’s government was forced to resign on Thursday following increasingly violent protests against the country’s president.
Several hours after opposition lawmakers and high-level military officials met, Burkina Faso army chief, General Honore Traore, told reporters in the capital that the government had been dissolved.
“A transitional body will be put in place in consultation with all parties,” Traore said.
The temporary governing body would hold power “no more than 12 months,” he added.
A curfew was also put into place for 7:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. local time.
Protests escalate
Mass protests broke out in the capital city Ouagadougou earlier this week over a planned amendment to the constitution which would extend President Blaise Compaore’s 27-year grip on power.
On Thursday, the demonstrations escalated, with thousands pouring onto the capital city’s streets and a group of protesters storming the parliament building. There, they set fire to the main chamber.
Burkina Faso’s public broadcasters also came under attack when groups of demonstrators forced their way into the buildings. State television and radio subsequently ceased broadcast operations during the day.


Other cities across the country reported blazes being set to properties belonging to politicians of the ruling political party Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP), including in the second-largest city Bobo-Dioulasso and in the central city of Koudougou.
At least one person was killed in the violence, according to security forces.
State of emergency report
Shortly before General Traore’s announcement, President Compaore reportedly declared a state of emergency.
An announcer from local radio station Radio Omega FM had read the statement from the office of the presidency, which also purported that the leader would seek talks with opposition leaders.
The long-time leader’s whereabouts remain unknown.
The explosive protests have raised concern in the international community, with the EU, the US and the UN calling for all sides to refrain from violence and seek a peaceful, political solution.
On Thursday, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon dispatched special envoy Mohamed Ibn Chambas to the region to help restore calm.
President Compaore seized power in 1987, and his bid to keep his position has angered much of the public, including many young people, in a country where 60 percent of the population is under 25.
kms/sb (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa) allAfrica




Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Compaore, Burkina army, Burkina Faso, Burkina Faso army chief General Honore Traore, Burkina protests, Thomas Sankara 



Burkina Faso – Comapaore refuses to step down

Posted on October 31, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
Burkina Faso president defies calls to step down
Burkina Faso’s President Blaise Compaore says he will stay in power for a year under a transitional government, following a day of violent protests demanding his resignation.
He said he was withdrawing a controversial law which would enable him to seek another term in office when his current term ends in 2015.
On Thursday, protesters angered by his bid to extend his 27-year rule torched parliament and government buildings.
They want him to resign immediately.
The creation of a transitional government was announced on Thursday by army chief General Honore Traore, who said it would “be put in place in consultation with all parties”.
He also declared the dissolution of parliament.
“A return to the constitutional order is expected in no more than 12 months,” he added, but gave no further details.
In a TV address later on Thursday, Mr Compaore refused to step down but said he would hand over power once the transitional government had completed its 12-month term.
He also said he was lifting a “state of siege” he had declared earlier.
UN chief Ban Ki-moon’s special envoy for West Africa, Mohamed Ibn Chambas, will fly to Burkina Faso on Friday to try to ease the crisis, the UN said.

Analysis: Thomas Fessy, BBC West Africa correspondent
The president said he was ready to open a political dialogue to set the terms of a transitional government that he would lead until the next presidential election. His current term ends in November next year, so staying in power now would be legal.
But would he be legitimate?
Opposition leaders and protesters say no. They want him to step down now.
President Compaore appeared to want to calm things down but he spoke like a man who still wants to decide when he goes.
That could be the recipe for more unrest.
 

Parliament was ransacked and set ablaze
Cars were also set on fire
The defence forces have been trying to disperse the protesters
‘Patriotic action’
In a message broadcast by a local TV station after the general’s statement, Mr Compaore said he welcomed the military’s “patriotic action”.
He said he would hand over power to a democratically elected government after the transitional administration had completed its term.

Statement by army chief General Honore Traore: ”The national assembly is dissolved, the government is dissolved”


He had planned to seek re-election by pushing a constitutional amendment through parliament that would have lifted the limit on presidential terms.
But the move triggered demonstrations in the capital, Ouagadougou.
These protests are the most serious yet against Mr Compaore’s rule.
At least one person was killed in the protests, says BBC Afrique’s Yacouba Ouedraogo in the capital.
The main opposition leader, Zephirin Diabre, said dozens of protesters had been killed across the country by the security forces in a “barbaric escalation of violence”.
The military fired live bullets to try to disperse protesters who had occupied parliament, our correspondent says.
Protesters also surged towards the presidential palace, and a government helicopter flying overhead fired tear gas at them, Reuters news agency reported.
Witnesses say dozens of soldiers joined the protest in Ouagadougou’s main square, including a former defence minister, Gen Kouame Lougue.
Protesters demanded his installation as president, our reporter says.

Blaise Compaore 



Jump media player
Media player help

Out of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.



President Blaise Compaore spoke to the BBC earlier this week



Served under President Thomas Sankara as minister of state to the presidency
Took power after Sankara was killed in mysterious circumstances by a group of soldiers in 1987
First elected president in 1991 and again in 1998
A new constitution in 2000 limited presidents to two terms in office, and limited terms to five years
Won two further terms
Protests at attempts to amend the term limits began a year ago, fuelled by the high cost of living


The city hall, the homes of MPs, and an upmarket hotel in Ouagadougou were also set ablaze.
Similar protests hit the south-western city of Bobo Dioulasso, and other towns in the poor West African state.
State television went off air after protesters ransacked its headquarters.

Mr Compaore first took power in a coup in 1987, and has won four disputed elections since then.
A former soldier, he has faced outbreaks of violence on several occasions, including a military mutiny in 2011.
Correspondents say he has always managed to stay in power by using a combination of conciliation and moderate force.
But the current tensions have been building for several months, and it is not clear whether he can survive this time.
Mr Compaore is a staunch ally of the US and France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for military operations against militant Islamists in the Sahel region.
But the country is one of West Africa’s poorest, and is vulnerable to changes in world prices for cotton, the economic mainstay of many Burkinabes. BBC


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Comapore, Burkina Faso, Burkina protests, Burkinabe protests, Thomas Sankara 



← Older posts








Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		













						Africa – News and Analysis					


Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.				



Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com




Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to



Cancel







 













