Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis | Page 2 

Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis | Page 2






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 









Tag Archives: Burkina Faso

← Older posts
Newer posts →


Burkina Faso – million protestors oppose another term for Blaise Compaore

Posted on October 28, 2014 | Leave a comment


allAfrica
Burkina Faso: Protesters Demand Stop to Constitutional Change




Photo: RFI 
President Blaise Compaoré

In Ouagadougou, nearly one million people have taken to the streets on Tuesday, organizers of the rally have said. The march itself was peaceful. But clashes had erupted between protesters and security forces shortly before the marching, and again at mid-day.
The clashes began late on Monday night when security forces tried to disperse the youths who were trying to block certain streets in the city of Ouagadougou. This morning the opposition march took place in a calm atmosphere and remained so until the protest ended.
Ouagadougou on Tuesday morning was like a ghost town. Shops, gas stations, everything was closed.

Protesters were demanding that President Blaise Compaore step down. “This is the end of Blaise Compaore!” shouted a young person in the crowd, holding a whistle in his mouth.
“We are simply asking him to withdraw the bill before noon Universal Time,” warned the leader of the opposition. He also urged people to maintain pressure until the withdrawal of the government bill on the revision of the Constitution, which is aimed at securing another term for the president.
allAfrica‘s Michael Tantoh worked on the English translation from Burkina Faso: Mobilisation massive contre la révision constitutionnelle
 
Reuters
Clashes at Burkina Faso protest against leader’s plan to extend rule

By Joe Penney and Mathieu Bonkoungou
OUAGADOUGOU Tue Oct 28, 2014 
















Protesters gather in front of a billboard, which reads: ‘Do you know your beautiful country?’, in Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso, October 28, 2014.
Credit: Reuters/Joe Penney










Related News



France says Burkina Faso must keep to African rules on political change
Police fire teargas at rock-throwing protesters in Burkina capital







OUAGADOUGOU (Reuters) – Police fired teargas at rock-throwing protesters after tens of thousands marched through Burkina Faso’s capital on Tuesday calling for President Blaise Compaore to scrap plans to change term limits to stay in power.
An early morning march through the heart of Ouagadougou was peaceful but clashes erupted later as protesters tried to advance towards the National Assembly.
Tuesday marked the start of a civil disobedience campaign by opposition parties after the government asked the National Assembly to order a referendum on changing the constitution to let Compaore seek re-election next year rather than step down.






Former colonial power France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for Special Forces soldiers operating across West Africa, urged Compaore to abide by an African Union charter stipulating that leaders should not change the law to try to stay in power.
“The people have decided to start a general popular resistance. The first grievance is to get the withdrawal, pure and simple, of this legal project,” Zephirin Diabre, head of the opposition delegation, told the crowd of demonstrators.
Protesters chanted “Step aside!” and “Don’t touch Article 37″, referring to the clause in the constitution that now bars Compaore, in power for 27 years, from running again next year.
Others carried banners comparing Compaore to Ebola, the virus that has killed nearly 5,000 people in the nearby states of Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.
“We must disinfect ourselves,” one read.
There was no immediate figure for arrests or casualties. A government spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
Protesters who marched towards the National Assembly, where the law will be debated on Thursday, were blocked by security forces who fired volleys of teargas and used water cannons.
They responded by burning tyres and throwing rocks. A pocket of demonstrators gathered in a downtown square pledging to hold out until Compaore shelved his plan.
“It’s provocation. They (the authorities) want to set the country on fire,” said a young protester. “Even if Blaise Compaore burns the country down, he will depart all the same.”
Demonstrators in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina Faso’s second biggest town, 330 km (205 miles) to the southwest of the capital, pulled down a statue of Compaore, a witness said.
They left intact an adjacent statue of Libya‘s late leader Muammar Gaddafi, who was a popular figure in some poor African countries because of his generous cash donations.
AU RULES
The French government on Tuesday said it expected Compaore to adhere to laws drawn up by his peers.
“The African Union charter on democracy and good governance article 23…specifies clearly that constitutional revisions aiming to prevent political change are banned,” Foreign ministry spokesman Romain Nadal told reporters.
Nadal said breaking the charter could lead to sanctions. President Francois Hollande had sent a letter to Compaore on Oct. 7 outlining this position, he added.
French troops based in Ouagadougou are a key part of French counter-terrorism operations across West Africa.
Compaore has positioned himself as a key mediator in regional conflicts and is also an important ally of the United States the regional fight against al Qaeda-linked Islamists.
Having seized power in a 1987 coup, Compaore has won a series of elections, the last of which was in 2010.
However, he faced unprecedented protests in 2011 from a usually loyal army. The referendum plan has split his nation, one of the world’s poorest despite being a top regional cotton producer and home to a fledgling gold industry.
Reuters




Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Compaore, Bobo Dioulasso protest, Burkina constitution, Burkina Faso, Burkina mass protest, Ougadougou protest, president Compaore 



Burkinabe court refuses to rule on Sankara requwst for exhumation

Posted on May 1, 2014 | Leave a comment


BBC
Burkina Faso court refuses to rule on Thomas Sankara
 Mr Sankara’s family never got a chance to identify his body

A court in Burkina Faso has refused to rule on a request by the family of ex-President Thomas Sankara for his body to be exhumed for DNA tests.
His relatives and supporters condemned the decision, saying they wanted proof that it was his body.
The High Court said it lacked jurisdiction over the case.
Seen by many as Africa’s Che Guevara, Mr Sankara was hastily buried after being killed during a 1987 coup led by incumbent President Blaise Compaore.
The anti-imperialist revolutionary became president in 1983 after an internal power struggle and led his country for four years.
The court’s ruling was greeted with outrage and contempt by Mr Sankara’s relatives and supporters, reports journalist Chris Simpson from the capital, Ouagadougou.
‘Incorruptible’
Campaigners say the family never had the chance to identify his body before he was buried in the capital’s Dagnoen cemetery.
About 100 people protested outside court, chanting “down with the Burkinabe judiciary” and “when will the Burkinabe people know the truth?”, AFP news agency reports.
 Thomas Sankara was seen by his supporters as incorruptible
 He remains popular in many parts of Africa
Mr Sankara was killed by a group of soldiers at the age of 37.
Public interest in Mr Sankara remains high in Burkina Faso, with opposition group demanding answers about his death, correspondents say.
Family lawyer Benewende Sankara said he would appeal against the decision.

Thomas Sankara


A captain in Upper Volta’s army
Instrumental in the coup that ousted Col Saye Zerbo as president in 1982
Took power from Maj Jean-Baptiste Ouedraogo in an internal power struggle and became president in August 1983
Adopted radical left-wing policies and sought to reduce government corruption
Changed the name of the country from Upper Volta to Burkina Faso, which means “the land of upright men”
Killed in mysterious circumstances at the age of 37 by a group of soldiers in October 1987


“We are not happy,” AFP quoted him as saying.
President Compaore has so far refused to agree to Mr Sankara’s exhumation, and has always denied being involved in the ex-leader’s killing, Chris Simpson reports.
Mr Compaore insists the “facts are known” and he has “nothing to hide”, he adds.
When Thomas Sankara took power in 1983 he changed the West African state’s colonial name of Upper Volta to Burkina Faso, which means “the land of upright men”.
His supporters say he was incorruptible, unlike many other African leaders.
Mr Sankara was seen as charismatic and wore a beret, leading to comparisons with the Latin American revolutionary Che Guevara.
Many taxis across West Africa still have a round sticker of him on their windscreens.




BBC




Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Burkina Faso, Compaore and Sankara, Sankara exhumation case, Thomas Sankara 



Sahel conflicts overshadow food crisis

Posted on March 29, 2014 | Leave a comment


IPS
By Matthew Newsome
In 2012 recurring droughts destroyed most harvests in the Sahel. This year feeding chronically hungry people in the Sahel has been compromised by regional conflict that has created almost one million refugees. 
TUNIS, Mar 28 2014 (IPS) – Still not enough is being done to improve the food emergency in Africa’s Sahel Region as conflict and instability continue to exacerbate any response towards aiding a region where one in eight people suffer from food insecurity.
“The main problem we have is that food is not reaching conflict areas such as Central African Republic (CAR) because of insecurity. Until now, there has not been enough of a response from the international community, especially given the proportion of the disaster foreseen,” Jose Graziano da Silva, director-general of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), told IPS at the organisation’s regional conference being held in Tunisa from Mar. 24 to 28.
Last month, the U.N. appealed for more than two billion dollars to address the needs of 20 million “food insecure” people across Africa’s Sahel, a semi-arid area beset by persistent drought and chronic food insecurity stretching from the Sahara desert in North Africa and Sudan’s Savannas in the south. It is described by the U.N. as “one of the world’s poorest and most vulnerable regions.”
Countries in the Sahel currently facing food shortages are Mali, Mauritania, the Gambia, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic (CAR), Niger, Chad and Nigeria.
New research by international NGO Action Aid highlights how Nigeria and Senegal are alarmingly unprepared to cope with a worsening food crisis.
John Abuya, head of Action Aid’s international humanitarian action and resilience team, told IPS: “Disaster preparedness structures at regional and community levels are still weak and need to be strengthened so as to provide the necessary response and resilience in case of an emergency.”
“Based on early warning signs, it is likely that the Nigerian and Senegalese governments will be overwhelmed if their food crisis escalates. Although Nigeria has a National Emergency Management Authority, its response at state level has been weak and resources have been allocated inadequately by the central government,” Abuya said.
Food insecurity in the Sahel is set to increase in 2014 by 40 percent compared to 2013 when 11.3 million people had inadequate food and required around 1.7 billion dollars in donor assistance.
Feeding chronically hungry people in the Sahel has been compromised by regional conflict that has created approximately 724,000 refugees and 495,000 internally displaced persons.
According to the latest data from the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, Chad’s open-door policy has resulted in it receiving 419, 000 refugees (86,000 from CAR, and 333,000 from Darfur, Sudan).
Out of the 103,000 refugees residing in Mauritania, a majority are from Mali and Western Sahara, while Burkina Faso has received 43,000 refugees from Mali since the crisis there began in 2012.
Following Mali’s military coup in March 2012, terrorists and criminal organisations exploited the country’s power vacuum and occupied the northern territory creating a huge displacement of the population. It resulted in a refugee outflow into Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Niger, and, to a lesser degree, Algeria and other countries.
Mali maintains it has the capacity to feed its people but is restricted by poor infrastructure and instability in the north.
Last year, it produced two million tonnes of cereal in addition to one million tonnes of rice.
“Mali’s problem is not agricultural, it is a logistical problem about transporting the food to people. The crisis and the instability in the north is not permitting us to use the roads safely. Therefore the food that farmers produce is restricted in its movement because of insecurity,” Issa Konda, head of Mali’s agricultural delegation attending the FAO conference, told IPS.
Despite efforts to stabilise Mali, including the deployment of a peacekeeping force and presidential elections in mid-2013, very few Malian refugees want to return due to the fragile humanitarian and security situation.
Niger’s severe food shortages due to recurrent drought have also been compounded by conflict in neighbouring countries. Half of the country’s 17 million people are without adequate food all year round, while one in 10 is unable to feed themselves for three months of the year.
Conflict in northern Mali, southern Libya, northern Nigeria and CAR has put pressure on Niger’s resources to deal with its food crisis as thousands of displaced civilians take refuge in the country due to its porous borders.
Since 2012, Malian refugees have regarded neighbouring Niger as a safe haven. According to the U.N. Refugee Agency, over 51,000 refugees (47,000 from Mali and 4,000 from Nigeria) have entered the country as a result of regional conflict.
Last year’s rainy season in Niger, which lasted from July to October, was disappointing says the country’s Minister in the President’s office for the national strategy for food security and agriculture development, Amadou Diallo.
“The situation is dire and has not been improving for several years. We are unable to meet the food demand. The problem is that demand is growing from rising population numbers and incoming refugees, in addition to terrible drought our food supply is being compromised,” he told IPS.
Niger’s refugee crisis escalated last year after neighbouring Nigeria launched a military offensive against Islamist terror group, Boko Haram, causing 10,000 people to flee northern Nigeria into south-eastern Niger and Cameroon.
Of the 25 countries listed by the U.N. as being vulnerable to becoming failed states, 13 are in the Sahel. Breaking the cycle of recurrent food crises in the region is next to impossible while there is limited security says Gerda Verburg, chairperson of the Committee on World Food Security.
“In the Sahel we have the solutions. We have the capacity. We have the willingness.  However, as long there is insecurity then food production and access to food is at risk.  There is not enough reliability and stability for us to adequately address food insecurity in the Sahel,” she told IPS.
>

http://www.ipsnews.net/2014/03/sahel-food-crisis-overshadowed-regional-conflict/
>


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Burkina Faso, Central African Republic (CAR), Chad and Nigeria. sahel foid insecurity, conflict in sahel, islamism sahel, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, the Gambia 



Malian Islamists say France has opened gates of hell

Posted on January 15, 2013 | Leave a comment


Guardian


Mali conflict: a French soldier sits on his mattress in a hangar at the Malian army air base in Bamako as the battle enters its fourth day. Photograph: Joe Penney/Reuters


Islamist fighters in Mali captured a central town on Monday as a ferocious campaign of air strikes by French warplanes aimed at halting their advance entered its fourth day.
Despite intensive bombardments, the fundamentalist insurgents pushing south towards the capital, Bamako, overran the central town of Diabaly, just 250 miles to the north.
An Islamist militant leader warned the French government its intervention in Mali had opened the “gates of hell”.
France’s defence minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, said that in a counter-offensive heavily armed rebels “took Diabaly after fierce fighting and resistance from the Malian army that couldn’t hold them back”.
France immediately extended its bombardment of the Islamists with air strikes in central Mali.
While officials in Paris declared they were “satisfied” with Operation Serval, as the French military intervention is codenamed, the military was also reporting unexpectedly fierce resistance in the west of the country.
Le Drian said the situation was “evolving favourably”, but admitted: “There remains a difficult point to the west where we have to deal with extremely well-armed groups.”
The Islamists’ advance on Monday came as fighter jets dropped bombs and strafed their camps and convoys.
“We know that the nub, the most important [action] will happen towards the west,” Le Drian added. “We bombed towards the west overnight and we are continuing bombing towards the west today because it’s here that the most important fighting is taking place.
“The forces of the terrorist groups are exactly what we expected. They are heavily armed. They are very determined. They are very well organised. We knew this,” he said.
The French radio station Europe 1 broadcast a telephone interview with Omar Ould Hamaha, an Islamist militant leader. He said the French government had opened the “gates of hell” and “fallen into a trap much more dangerous than Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia”. Hamaha, known as “Red Beard” because of his hennaed hair, added: “And it’s only just started.”
Hamaha goaded French fighters: “Come down to earth if you are men,” he said. “We’ll welcome them with open arms.”
In Bamako, where a state of emergency remains in place, there was a heavy military presence on the streets. Civilian trucks, vans and transport vehicles have been commandeered by the army in recent days to ferry personnel around the city.
Soldiers from other African nations have been seen in Bamako, and were due to be sent north to support the Malian army, but residents in the key strategic town of Mopti said they had yet to arrive.
“We are hearing reports that troops from Burkina Faso are driving by land to Mopti and will be arriving in the next few hours,” said Issa Ballo, a Mopti resident.
“Things have quietened in Mopti since the French arrived, but the roads around all the military camps are blocked and the area around the airport is sealed off.”
France has been carrying out air attacks on the Islamists in the north of Mali since Friday evening in an attempt to stop the militants gaining control of the country. Paris justified the intervention on the grounds of maintaining stability in the region and reducing the risk of terrorist attacks elsewhere, including France.
About 500 French ground troops are already in Bamako and others are expected to follow. Reinforcements are expected from neighbouring African countries including Nigeria, Niger, Burkina Faso, Togo, Senegal and Benin.
The EU will hold an emergency meeting on Thursday to assess the situation, the EU foreign affairs chief, Catherine Ashton, said. “I have convened an extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council this week to take stock of possible EU actions in support of Mali (government) … to help it cope with the current situation,” she said in a statement.
Earlier, an EU spokesman, Michael Mann, said the EU was speeding up its preparations for a troop training mission but was not planning any combat role.
The US defence secretary, Leon Panetta, said the US was providing intelligence-gathering assistance to the French in Mali.
The north of Mali fell under the control of Islamists nine months ago. As the international community dithered over what to do, France decided to launch a campaign of air strikes after rebel convoys were reported to be moving south towards Bamako.The French strikes are being carried out by Mirage 2000 fighter jets based in Chad and Gazelle helicopter gunships. Rafale jets are also reported to be flying bombing missions from France.
 
A group of independence-seeking Touaregs has said it will support the Malian government and French in the battle against the Islamists. The MNLA (Mouvement National pour la Libération de l’Azawad) said it was “ready to help” the French in their “attempts to end terrorism in the Azawad”. The Azawad is the northern region occupied by the Islamists.
“We totally support the French air campaign. Of course we are ready to help the French army work on the ground,” one of the MNLA’s leaders said on Monday.
“Because of our knowledge of the ground and the populations, we are more useful a force than that of CEDEAO (Communauté Economique des Etats de l’Afrique de l’Ouest), which will be deployed to back up the Malian army,” he added.
On Monday, the French military bombed Islamist bases in Douentza, 500 miles north of Bamako, for the fourth day running. However, the fundamentalists were reported to have already fled the town.
The air campaign was said to have had more success at the northern Islamist camp at Gao. “At the Gao military camp there have been deaths. The Islamists were taken by surprise in the middle of a meeting. There were a lot killed,” a Malian regional security source told AFP. “They lost an enormous amount of logistics and men. The figure of 60 deaths isn’t an exaggeration at Gao and might even be higher.”
Patrick Smith, editor of Africa Confidential, the authoritative newsletter covering African economic and political affairs, who was in Mali in November, told the Guardian the French military operation raised more questions than it answered. “I’m not surprised about the military intervention. There were French special forces on the ground for the best part of the last year. They were there when I was in Mali and had spotted a couple of French passport holders heading for the north to join the jihadists,” he said.
“It was clear they had been tracking them. It wasn’t a surprise either to all the aficionados who think France has decided to ramp this up into a full-scale emergency, zap the hell out of the jihadists and shut them up for a while to give the African forces time to get organised. The big danger is thinking bashing these [Islamist] camps to bits means the problem is over.
“There is a genuine fear that these people could come from north Mali and set off bombs on the Champs Elysées.”
Smith said it was hard to quantify support for the Islamic fundamentalists among the Malian population.
“It’s unknowable. Some people will tell you they have no support at all and it’s all at the point of a gun, others that they do have support.
“What they do have is a lot of money. Tens of millions of dollars from people and cocaine smuggling, so they can pay much better wages than the state army. They may not have the hearts and minds, but they certainly have the dosh.”The humanitarian organisation Médecins Sans Frontières said on Monday it was treating civilians injured in the conflict and was worried about those living close to the combat zones.
“We call on all parties to the conflict to respect the safety of civilians and to leave medical facilities untouched,” said Rosa Crestani, MSF’s emergency response co-ordinator.Save the Children warned that women and children were being forced to flee for their lives were among the poorest and most vulnerable in the country. Families forced from their homes are adding to nearly 350,000 people who fled the region after last year’s fighting erupted. Guardian




Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, Humanitarian Issues, West Africa 

Tagged Benin, Burkina Faso, France and Mali, France opens gates of hell, Islamist threaten France, mali con flict, Mali Islamists, Niger, Nigeria, Omar Ould Hamaha Islamist militant leader, Senegal, Togo 



Burkina Faso – the legacy of Thomas Sankara 25 years on

Posted on October 25, 2012 | Leave a comment


Think Africa Press
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso:
“Fatherland or death, we will prevail!”

Thomas Sankara (left) was killed in 1987 on the orders of Blaise Compaore (right) who has been president ever since. Photographs by Wikipedia and UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
With these words, Captain Thomas Sankara proclaimed the revolution on August 4, 1983. He had just led a successful coup against the government of Burkina Faso, back then still called Haute-Volta. His words were prophetic, for just four years later the charismatic officer, later remembered as “Africa’s Ché Guevara”, was murdered, shot by the men of his best friend.
But these four years were enough to make Sankara one of the most important political figures of his time. He became one of the sharpest critics of imperialism and celebrated leader of the non-aligned movement. His social and economic policies, the centerpiece of his revolution, can still be called visionary. Nothing drives this point home better than looking at Burkina Faso today, 25 years after his death.
Unemployment, poverty and high prices
Kpénahi Traoré sits in the leafy garden of the French Cultural Institute in Ouagadougou, the capital city. The young journalist finished university a year ago. In this country, where only every fourth person is able to read and write, this is a real privilege. But equivalent to prosperity – or even a permanent job – it is not. “At the beginning of our studies we were told that journalists can make 100,000 CFA-Francs ($200) per month”, she recalls. “But this is only possible if you work two jobs.”
The situation isn’t much different for graduates of other subjects. “It’s not easy to find a job. Everybody takes what he can get, no matter if it actually fits his degree or qualification”, she tells Think Africa Press. For the great majority of the population who don’t have any school or university degree at all, the situation is even worse. Those in the larger towns often work seven days a week as craftsmen, mechanics or street hawkers, without making even the official minimum wage of around $65 per month. In the countryside, most people sill rely on subsistence agriculture. If the rains don’t suffice, families are not able to afford school fees for their children and girls are often married off as young as possible because parents hope that the prospective husband can provide for the bride.
Chrysogone Zougmoré is confronted with these kinds of stories every day. The 56-year-old is the president of the largest human rights organisation of Burkina Faso and chair of the Alliance Against the High Cost of Living. The rising costs of living over the last years have driven many people into poverty, he says.
Prices for the most important household goods – basic food stuffs and natural gas for cooking and petrol – are rising constantly. Burkina Faso relies on imports for practically all goods consumed in the country, which makes it highly vulnerable to changes in world market prices. The little money generated through the export of gold, cotton and sesame benefits mostly external investors and the corrupt elite.
Sankara’s social policy
This was different under Sankara, Zougmoré says: “You have to say that social policy under Sankara was really good”. Sankara disappropriated the country’s economic elite who controlled most of the arable land and real estate at that time. The fields were divided between subsistence farmers and in the cities social housing was constructed. He even declared the whole year of 1985 rent free.
In the international sphere, Sankara aspired to a “second independence” from the former colonial master France. He developed ties to the Soviet Union and Cuba, which he admired for its domestic revolution. He despised development aid, conscious of its potential to lead to dependence and external domination.
To make Burkina Faso independent from foreign loans, Sankara tried to create an industrial base for the dominantly agrarian Burkinabé economy. Civil servants were forced to wear locally made clothes during office hours to increase demand. In a move untypical for many socialist presidents, he also supported private business, establishing special economic zones and improving the infrastructure of the country. The programmes paid off: four years after Sankara came to power, Burkina Faso was practically self-sufficient in its demand for basic food stuffs. Today, the government has to import much of its food, even in years with a good harvest. Read more…


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, West Africa 

Tagged Burkina and instability in West Africa, Burkina Faso, Sankara and Burkina, Sankara and socialism in Africa, Sankara killed by Compaore, Thomas Sankara 



Burkina Faso – Blaise Compaore and the politics of personal enrichment

Posted on August 18, 2012 | Leave a comment


African Arguments by Peter Dorrie

By African standards, Burkina Faso is not a particularly spectacular country. It is small, has a tiny population and internal politics which most foreign correspondents tend to find somewhat pedestrian. No wonder that it receives only little attention, even in Africa-focused publications.
In those rare cases when something is published on the internal politics of Burkina, it often only scratches the surface and conveys a deceiving image of the country and its primary actors.
The recent piece on African Arguments ‘Compaoré’s Continuing Will to Power’ by Michael Keating and Coulibaly Nadoun is a perfect case in point. It leaves the reader with two main impressions:
1. While Compaoré hasn’t been a democratic role model, he has managed to foster a certain amount of development (‘wide and well maintained’ streets, etc.), under difficult circumstances.
2. He has a dark past of cooperation with rebel groups in other countries, but has recently shown a lot of initiative in resolving conflicts in the region, like the post-election violence in Côte d’Ivoire or the civil war in northern Mali and securing the release of western hostages held in the Sahara by Al Qaida affiliated groups. What’s more, he has prevented his own country from descending into the all out civil wars experienced by many of its neighbours.
Compared to contemporaries like Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe, the late Libyan ruler Muammar Al Ghaddafi and Liberia’s Charles Taylor, Compaoré has indeed kept a low profile and has managed to prevent himself becoming associated with the worst expressions of African political life – at least not in his own country. But a more critical assessment of his legacy and method of government demonstrates that he is in no way the ‘benign dictator’ that Keating and Nadoun would like him to be.
To adequately judge Blaise Compaoré’s record of bringing development and prosperity to his people, it is first of all important to remind oneself that he has been in power since 1987, a full quarter of a century. More than half the population of his country has only known his rule.  Read more…
 


Leave a comment

Posted in West Africa 

Tagged Blaise Compaore, Burkina Faso, Compaore clings to power, Compaore wealth, Mugabe 



Mali: rise in refugee and IDP numbers after northern fighting

Posted on February 25, 2012 | 1 comment


IRIN
DAKAR, 24 February 2012 (IRIN) – Refugee numbers are rising daily in countries bordering Mali as fighting rages between the Malian army and the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (MNLA), which is fighting for greater autonomy for the Tuareg.
There are also tens of thousands of internally displaced persons (IDPs) within Mali.
A US$35.6 million appeal is being launched today, said Helene Caux, UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) senior regional public information officer on 23 February, to deal with “the Mali displacement”.
Burkina Faso
The Burkina Faso Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Regional Cooperation said that by 21 February there were 16,299 Malian Tuareg refugees in the country. By 23 February that figure had reached 17,499.
The bulk of arrivals entered the country at Tina-koff, Inabao and Deou in the northern province of Oudalan. The rest are in nine other provinces. They are being hosted by individual families or by communities, and some by families in the capital, Ouagadougou. However, the ministry says, most are in sites in the Sahel Region: at Mentao in Soum Province and Inabao and Gandafabou in Oudalan Province.
The government has identified two sites in the regions of Goudebo and Ingan to set up refugee camps.
Initially, the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has distributed energy biscuits, kitchen kits and blankets; the Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization are providing medicines and water purification; UNHCR has provided 500 tents drawn from stockpiles in Douala, Cameroon, and is coordinating the response.
Niger
By 23 February, 28,858 refugees had arrived in Niger since the fighting began in January. These include citizens of Niger, some of whom had lived in Mali for several years. Here, too, locals have been helping the refugees. The government has provided food and local NGO PLAN Niger has also been providing support.   Read more…


1 Comment

Posted in North Africa, West Africa 

Tagged Algeria, Burkina Faso, displaced people, Gaddafi forces, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (NLMA), Niger, refugees, Tuareg 



← Older posts
Newer posts →







Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		













						Africa – News and Analysis					


Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.				



Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com




Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to



Cancel







 













