Burkina Faso – million protestors oppose another term for Blaise Compaore | Africa - News and Analysis 


Burkina Faso – million protestors oppose another term for Blaise Compaore | Africa - News and Analysis






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 










← Ethiopia: Ethnic Oromos arrested, tortured and killed by the state in relentless repression of dissent
South Africa – will questions over ivory fund threaten rhino horn plans →


Burkina Faso – million protestors oppose another term for Blaise Compaore

Posted on October 28, 2014 | Leave a comment


allAfrica
Burkina Faso: Protesters Demand Stop to Constitutional Change




Photo: RFI 
President Blaise Compaoré

In Ouagadougou, nearly one million people have taken to the streets on Tuesday, organizers of the rally have said. The march itself was peaceful. But clashes had erupted between protesters and security forces shortly before the marching, and again at mid-day.
The clashes began late on Monday night when security forces tried to disperse the youths who were trying to block certain streets in the city of Ouagadougou. This morning the opposition march took place in a calm atmosphere and remained so until the protest ended.
Ouagadougou on Tuesday morning was like a ghost town. Shops, gas stations, everything was closed.

Protesters were demanding that President Blaise Compaore step down. “This is the end of Blaise Compaore!” shouted a young person in the crowd, holding a whistle in his mouth.
“We are simply asking him to withdraw the bill before noon Universal Time,” warned the leader of the opposition. He also urged people to maintain pressure until the withdrawal of the government bill on the revision of the Constitution, which is aimed at securing another term for the president.
allAfrica‘s Michael Tantoh worked on the English translation from Burkina Faso: Mobilisation massive contre la révision constitutionnelle
 
Reuters
Clashes at Burkina Faso protest against leader’s plan to extend rule

By Joe Penney and Mathieu Bonkoungou
OUAGADOUGOU Tue Oct 28, 2014 
















Protesters gather in front of a billboard, which reads: ‘Do you know your beautiful country?’, in Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso, October 28, 2014.
Credit: Reuters/Joe Penney










Related News



France says Burkina Faso must keep to African rules on political change
Police fire teargas at rock-throwing protesters in Burkina capital







OUAGADOUGOU (Reuters) – Police fired teargas at rock-throwing protesters after tens of thousands marched through Burkina Faso’s capital on Tuesday calling for President Blaise Compaore to scrap plans to change term limits to stay in power.
An early morning march through the heart of Ouagadougou was peaceful but clashes erupted later as protesters tried to advance towards the National Assembly.
Tuesday marked the start of a civil disobedience campaign by opposition parties after the government asked the National Assembly to order a referendum on changing the constitution to let Compaore seek re-election next year rather than step down.






Former colonial power France, which uses Burkina Faso as a base for Special Forces soldiers operating across West Africa, urged Compaore to abide by an African Union charter stipulating that leaders should not change the law to try to stay in power.
“The people have decided to start a general popular resistance. The first grievance is to get the withdrawal, pure and simple, of this legal project,” Zephirin Diabre, head of the opposition delegation, told the crowd of demonstrators.
Protesters chanted “Step aside!” and “Don’t touch Article 37″, referring to the clause in the constitution that now bars Compaore, in power for 27 years, from running again next year.
Others carried banners comparing Compaore to Ebola, the virus that has killed nearly 5,000 people in the nearby states of Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.
“We must disinfect ourselves,” one read.
There was no immediate figure for arrests or casualties. A government spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
Protesters who marched towards the National Assembly, where the law will be debated on Thursday, were blocked by security forces who fired volleys of teargas and used water cannons.
They responded by burning tyres and throwing rocks. A pocket of demonstrators gathered in a downtown square pledging to hold out until Compaore shelved his plan.
“It’s provocation. They (the authorities) want to set the country on fire,” said a young protester. “Even if Blaise Compaore burns the country down, he will depart all the same.”
Demonstrators in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina Faso’s second biggest town, 330 km (205 miles) to the southwest of the capital, pulled down a statue of Compaore, a witness said.
They left intact an adjacent statue of Libya‘s late leader Muammar Gaddafi, who was a popular figure in some poor African countries because of his generous cash donations.
AU RULES
The French government on Tuesday said it expected Compaore to adhere to laws drawn up by his peers.
“The African Union charter on democracy and good governance article 23…specifies clearly that constitutional revisions aiming to prevent political change are banned,” Foreign ministry spokesman Romain Nadal told reporters.
Nadal said breaking the charter could lead to sanctions. President Francois Hollande had sent a letter to Compaore on Oct. 7 outlining this position, he added.
French troops based in Ouagadougou are a key part of French counter-terrorism operations across West Africa.
Compaore has positioned himself as a key mediator in regional conflicts and is also an important ally of the United States the regional fight against al Qaeda-linked Islamists.
Having seized power in a 1987 coup, Compaore has won a series of elections, the last of which was in 2010.
However, he faced unprecedented protests in 2011 from a usually loyal army. The referendum plan has split his nation, one of the world’s poorest despite being a top regional cotton producer and home to a fledgling gold industry.
Reuters


Share this:StumbleUponTumblrPinterestLinkedInGoogleMoreTwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

							This entry was posted in Africa - International, West Africa and tagged Blaise Compaore, Bobo Dioulasso protest, Burkina constitution, Burkina Faso, Burkina mass protest, Ougadougou protest, president Compaore. Bookmark the permalink.							


← Ethiopia: Ethnic Oromos arrested, tortured and killed by the state in relentless repression of dissent
South Africa – will questions over ivory fund threaten rhino horn plans →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		











Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com










%d bloggers like this:








