Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis | Page 3 

Burkina Faso | Africa - News and Analysis | Page 3






Africa – News and Analysis


News, analysis and comment on Africa


Skip to content
About us
Africa
Central Africa
East Africa
North Africa
Southern Africa
West Africa
Business and Economics
Environment
Health
Humanitarian Issues
Media
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism
Contact and biographical details
Book Reviews
 









Tag Archives: Burkina Faso


Newer posts →


Un concern over those fleeing Malian fighting

Posted on February 18, 2012 | Leave a comment


BBC Africa
The UN says the number of Malian refugees fleeing to neighbouring countries to escape fighting between Tuareg rebels and the military has doubled over the past 10 days.

More than 44,000 thousand people have crossed into Mauritania, Niger and Burkina Faso.
Amnesty International described the fighting as the worst human rights crisis in northern Mali for 20 years.
The regional group Ecowas has condemned the Tuareg rebels for their offensive.
The Azawad National Liberation Movement (MNLA) took up arms last month following the return of many Tuareg fighters from Libya, where they had fought alongside Col Muammar Gaddafi’s forces.
The BBC West Africa correspondent Thomas Fessy says the area affected by the fighting is now relatively calm.
Both sides claim to control the north-eastern oasis town of Tessalit, near the border with Algeria.  Read more…


Leave a comment

Posted in North Africa, West Africa 

Tagged Burkina Faso, displaced in Nigeri and Mauritania, fighting in northern mali, fomrer Gaddafi forces, Mali, MNLA, Tuareg rebels 



2012 a year for African elections to test democracy

Posted on February 12, 2012 | Leave a comment


Daily Nation/allAfrica
BY CIUGU MWAGIRU, 11 FEBRUARY 2012

Nairobi — As world attention remains riveted on the US political campaigns and their implications for the Obama presidency, many may forget that in Africa there will be major tests for democracy this year.
Among the most critical political events on the continent will be a referendum in Darfur that is expected to pave the way for the self-determination of the people of that troubled Sudanese region
In the wake of the emergence of independence for South Sudan, what happens in Darfur will be of great significance for East Africa, and Africa as a whole.
Ravaged by war for many years, Darfur has been one of the major hotspots on the African continent.
Tellingly, it was the allegedly genocidal violence in Darfur that resulted in the issuing of a warrant of arrest for Sudan’s President Omar al-Bashir by the International Criminal Court.
Also of great significance this year will be developments in Libya and Egypt, the counties in Africa in which, together with Morocco, the so-called Arab uprising has had a major impact.
While in Egypt there will be elections for the Shura Council expected to steer the country’s political future, in post-Gaddafi Libya there will be the Public National Conference election expected to put paid to the uncertainties currently facing the troubled country.
Other countries holding either presidential or parliamentary elections this year include Senegal, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Togo and Sierra Leone. Also expected to hold polls before the year ends are Algeria, Angola, Burkina Faso and Madagascar.  Read more…




Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International, Central Africa, East Africa, North Africa, Southern Africa, West Africa 

Tagged African elections 2012, Algeria, Angola, Burkina Faso, Darfur referdum, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Senegal, Sierra Leone, test for democracy in Africa, Togo 



Malian refugees place food burden on Mauritania

Posted on February 7, 2012 | Leave a comment


IRIN/allAfrica
Bamako/Dakar — Some 12,000 Malians have fled fighting in the towns of Ménaka and Anderamboucane in northern Mali and reached already food-insecure villages around Tillabéri in western Niger, according to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in Niger’s capital, Niamey.
The Malian refugees are spread across the villages of Mangaizé, Chinégodar, Koutoubou, Yassan and Ayorou in Niger, according to the Malian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the bulk of them – an estimated 7,000 – in Chinégodar, which is usually home to 1,500, according to Franck Kuwonu at the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Niamey.
Fighting broke out between Touareg rebels and former soldiers from Libya, and the Malian army in mid-January. Rebel groups and former Libya fighters have reportedly acquired fresh weapons as a result of the Libya conflict and have launched a new movement, the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (MNLA), which calls for the creation of an independent state encompassing the regions of Gao, Kidal and Timbuktu in northern Mali.
Niger’s Tillabéri region has been hardest hit by the 2011 drought and poor harvest and many inhabitants are already facing severe food insecurity, according to the government and aid agencies. Though assessments are still under way, the government estimated late last year that just under half of Niger’s population would be short of food this year.  Read more…
See also: BBC report on Doctors of the World pulling out of Mali. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-16924177


Leave a comment

Posted in Humanitarian Issues, North Africa, West Africa 

Tagged aid group pulls out of Mali, Burkina Faso, drought, ex-Gaddafi fighters, Mali, Mauritania, MNLA, Niger, Tuareg rebels 



Is Gaddafi heading for Burkina Faso?

Posted on September 7, 2011 | Leave a comment


The arrival of a large convoy of vehicles and of  Gaddafi’s security chief , Mansour Daw, in Niger’s capital Niamey has set off another round of speculation.  Is Gaddafi with the convoy? Where is the convoy heading?  Are the vehicles packed with arms and gold?
As usual, serious events involving the former Libyan leader are a mixture of fascination and farce. He could be making a run for it and seeking a bolthole.  but on the other hand, he could become a nomadic nuisance, trekking around the porous borders of southern Libya, Chad and Niger , while his lieutenants seek the support or acquiescence of states in whose affairs Gaddafi continually meddled?
One major question is whether he will try to start a desert-based insurgency with his remaining Libyan followers and the remnants of Tuareg and other insurgent groups from Chad, Niger and Mali that he has supported and exploited in the past.  If that is his aim, he will need some sort of permanent presence outside Libya – offices from which his followers can speak to the world and channel funds and arms to their leader.
It would suit Gaddafi’s personality to cast himself as a modern-day Omar Mukhtar – the Bedouin leader who fought the Italian colonizers in the 1920s.
If he is looking for a West African refuge then Burkina is his best bet and the only realistic land route is through Niger.  The Niger government will have been horrified and embarassed by the arrival of the convoy and the danger that they will be dragged into the Libyan morass.
Niger’s Interior Minister, Abdou Labo, told journalists on 6 September that the convoy and Gaddafi’s security chief, Mr Daw, had been allowed into Niger on humanitarian grounds – not that Niger with its long Saharan border and small army was any position to prevent it and is unlikely to have known much about its presence until the convoy reached Agadez, hundreds of miles inside the border.
Niger’s government will only be too happy to see the caravan move on towards Burkina Faso.  But, so far we have no real information just rumour and speculation. Business as usual, one might say, when dealing with the Libyan leader.
The Burkinabe leader, Blaise Compaore, has been Libya’s closest ally in West Africa ever since Compaore overthrew and killed his friend and mentor, Thomas Sankara, in 1987.  Compaore has reportedly offered Gaddafi asylum.  So it’s time for everyone to watch Ougadougou.
Keith Somerville
See also All.Africa.com:
The arrival of a convoy of vehicles carrying someone resembling Mouammar Gaddafi has got tongues wagging in Ouagadougou.
Ever since President Blaise Compaoré offered Gaddafi refuge in Burkino Faso rumours have taken precedence over facts. As yet there has been no official announcement confirming whether or not member of the Gaddafi clan are in fact in the West African state. Read more….
http://allafrica.com/stories/201109061336.html


Leave a comment

Posted in Africa - International 

Tagged Burkina Faso, Gaddafi, Libya, Niger 




Newer posts →







Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Africa – undernourishment still a major problem in Africa as it lags behind


Burkina Faso – military leader promises “transition body”


Mali – two soldiers killed in explosion in north


Nigeria – Jonathan calls for all to pray for peace


South Africa – the eZuma virus killing off the independent media


Ebola – the IMF and West Africa’s inadequate health system


Burkina Faso –  opposition calls for mass protests over military takeover


Africa – overcoming the stigma of ebola


Background Pages 
Africa – background stories
Coaching, consultancy and training services
Contact and biographical details
Wildlife and Eco-Tourism  – Guides and Reviews

African links

African Arguments
al-Jazeera
All Africa.com
BBC News Africa
journalism.co.za
Motivation


Very useful links

Guardian Media
Home of great South African wines
Journalism, the Media and Opinion
Motivation


Wildlife and Eco-Tourism

Discover wildlife
Somerville's Safaris – Wildlife and Eco-Tourism


Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 



Archive 
Select Month
 November 2014 
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 December 2011 
 November 2011 
 October 2011 
 September 2011 

 




Blog at WordPress.com.
The Coraline Theme.		













						Africa – News and Analysis					


Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.				



Follow

Follow “Africa - News and Analysis”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 1,164 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com




Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to



Cancel







 













