Revolution: Actually with my hash tag…Burkina Faso | Digital Media Culture 

Revolution: Actually with my hash tag…Burkina Faso | Digital Media Culture





Digital Media Culture
on Africa, public culture and digital media




Search





Menu
Skip to content




Menu
Skip to content
Home
About
Discussion

Africa
Digital Media
Public Culture
Creative Enterprises
Reviews


Interviews
Opportunities

Call for Papers
PhD Studentships


Contact
 





Africa / Digital Media 



Revolution: Actually with my hash tag…Burkina Faso

			Posted on November 1, 2014 by Admin 1 Comment



The Burkina Faso revolution expectedly made it to mainstream media. However, what didn’t go mainstream is the robust online discussion in the Francophone digital public sphere and the designated hashtag, #Lwili that preceded it.
Yesterday, I published a post, Revolution: With or Without my Hashtag. Here, while I acknowledged the existence of hashtags sporadically used to discuss the news event post-revolution, I was hesitant to accord it equal gravitas as the role the hash tag played in movements such as the Arab Spring. Hence, I raised a question instead, what would you say is different in how the “hashtag” feature has been used by Burkina Faso (Burkinabes), in comparison to other revolutions and movements, including the Occupy…?
The number of retweets and reactions my speculative tweet (below) generated makes evident this simple fact: many social media users are oblivious to the Burkinabes’ online footprints that preceded the street march, which led to imminent victory.
It seems Burkina Faso managed to overturn leadership without a hashtag.
— Tomi Oladepo (@Tomi_Ola) October 31, 2014
For some, we thought the hashtag took the back seat in this revolution, and for others, we imagined that the vibrant discussion that could have led to the people hitting the streets didn’t make significant use of digital media after all – as the case had been in other successful ousting of incumbent presidents.
How wrong we were (at least to a very large extent).
All of the above did happen, it only mostly took place in French language. As such, despite the dominant perception that the web fosters universal access to information, access is still strongly limited by an obvious but subtle factor, language.
There have been ongoing discussions about English being the language of the internet, albeit not officially. According to Internet World Stats, of the Top 10 languages used on the Internet, English comes first and French occupies the 9th position. An online published paper by J. Korpela calls attention to why English is the dominant language of the Internet and its implications in easily polarising users into Internet-literates and Illiterates. For Quartz on the other hand, English language is no longer the language of the web (excerpted from Ethan Zuckerman’s Rewire book), and in 2012, The Telegraph reported that Chinese internet users would overtake English language users by 2015.
When Anna Gueye, an African activist, was copied into my tweet, she kindly gave detailed clarification to set the record straight as to how digital media played significant roles in the Burkina Faso revolution.
Anna’s points were as follows (paraphrased):

The Burkina Faso did have an active hash tag for the revolution – #Lwili
This hashtag was agreed upon as far back as February 22, 2013
Social media played huge roles through bloggers such as, @lesikanel, @ocomar @chantalnare @nandaseye @ful226 @y_jus @Gugustt @teteenyon and @KindoB and rappers @CiBal_Officiel
The people above, according to Anna, had been on the ground ‘motivating protesters’ (see video)
Lastly, Anna herself posted an article (which was translated) on the protest about a year ago on Global Voices.

I am told by @simoninou that the #Lwili represents a piece of cloth worn by the protesters. Hence, this was not a spontaneous street protest, and social media played more significant roles than many of us (Anglophone users) realised.
For the English language users who were equally versed in French language, they were able to join the discussion. 
However, many others didn’t have that luxury; so while we rejoiced with Burkina Faso on October 31, 2014, it all still came as a pleasant surprise!
For one reason or the other, using a hash-tracking page, I haven’t found the #iwili to have been that active, which would explain why the discussions didn’t trend heavily enough to make it mainstream before the revolution was completed. However, this is not to discount the fact that these conversations were taking place in francophone online public sphere. Other hash tags were also used: #AfricanSpring, #SpatulaRevolution #Compaore etc.
If anything, this is evidence that the Anglophone digital public sphere was (and still is) divorced from the Francophone digital public sphere, and there in lies the challenge. There are social and political implications for this reality, but that is a topic for another post.
The lesson to be taken away from all this, according to my good friend, Joachim, with whom I brooded over this matter is that, “media organisations must track online discussions in languages other than English, lest another revolution come upon us by ‘surprise'”.
The need to bridge the gap between French speakers and English speakers (in this case), should not be the sole responsibility of the native-speaking users. The media, local and global, need to take more seriously the role of bridging audiences in this highly fragmented world of the web, otherwise, we are all dwelling in echo-chambers composed of little cubicles framed by innocuously limited world views.
What other ways, in your opinion, can we bridge the language divide that deprives us of access to information on the web?


About these ads




Share this:TwitterFacebookGoogleLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

		Bookmark the permalink.
			


Post navigation
Previous post ← Revolution: With or Without my Hashtag 



			One thought on “Revolution: Actually with my hash tag…Burkina Faso”		





 Anna says: 


					November 2, 2014 at 1:17 am					


For a follow-up you may want to read http://goo.gl/s19Rir   … because the Ivorians began it all back in 2009 !


Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:



























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email.







 






 
Search



@Tomi_OlaMy TweetsInstagram


  Recent Posts 

Revolution: Actually with my hash tag…Burkina Faso


Revolution: With or Without my Hashtag


The Digital Academic, A Changing Culture – Interview


Digital Media Role in the Fight Against Ebola


Social media, shuffering, shmiling, the Zimbabwean condition – Mpofu


Recent Comments 
Anna on Revolution: Actually with my h…Anna on Revolution: With or Without my…Revolution: Actually… on Revolution: With or Without my…Admin on Revolution: With or Without my…Anna on Revolution: With or Without my… 
Goodreads

Blogroll

Mashable Technology
Slate Technology
Tech Cabal
Tech Crunch
Wired UK


Archives 
Select Month
 November 2014  (1)
 October 2014  (6)
 September 2014  (1)
 August 2014  (3)
 July 2014  (11)

Categories
Select Category
Africa
Call for Papers
Digital Media
Interviews
PhD Studentships
Public Culture


Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com 
 



Blog at WordPress.com.
			 | 
The Sight Theme.		
















Follow

Follow “Digital Media Culture”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,697 other followers








Build a website with WordPress.com







%d bloggers like this:




 





