
	Spokesman: Burkina Faso president declares state of emergency after violent protests - 10/30/2014 1:34:54 PM | Newser
 

	Spokesman: Burkina Faso president declares state of emergency after violent protests - 10/30/2014 1:34:54 PM | Newser



























                         
                    









Log In



Hot Topics




uplifting news


celebrity


Kaci Hickox


Islamic State


ISIS


archaeology


California


Iowa


Hong Kong


murder














 Newser

 Web








 
                                    
                                





Follow @Newser










































POLITICS
MONEY
HEALTH
TECH
US
WORLD
GREAT FINDS
OPINION
SCIENCE
CELEBRITY
ENTERTAINMENT
CRIME
SUPERLATIVES

BRILLIANT
HILARIOUS
INTRIGUING
DEPRESSING
RIDICULOUS
SCARY


MORE

TRAVEL
LUXURY LIVING
LIFESTYLE
GREEN
MEDIA
SPORTS
BREAKING





















More Politics Stories»


















































































































































































































            Spokesman: Burkina Faso president declares state of emergency after violent protests
        

                Burkina Faso president declares state of emergency
            

            By BRAHIMA OUEDRAOGO |  Associated Press | Oct 30, 2014 1:34 PM CDT 
            
 



         in 
    
        Politics












OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso (AP) — Burkina Faso's leader of nearly three decades declared a state of emergency Thursday, hours after protesters who oppose his bid for another term stormed the parliament and set part of it on fire, marking the greatest threat to his rule since he himself seized power in a coup.
Article continues below






















                                                    A protestor walks past a pool as protestors ransack the Azalai Hotel in  Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president  Blaise Compaore who is seeking  another term in Ouagadougou,...
                                                      (Associated Press)
                                                











                                                    Protestors  pour  water on a  injured man near the parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president Blaise Compaore who is  seeking another term in Ouagadougou,...
                                                      (Associated Press)
                                                











                                                    A protestor near the burning parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president  Blaise Compaore  who is  seeking  another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday,...
                                                      (Associated Press)
                                                











                                                    A car burns outside the parliament building in Burkina Faso as people protest  against their longtime president  Blaise Compaore who is  seeking another term in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Thursday, Oct....
                                                      (Associated Press)
                                                












ADVERTISEMENT(Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.)




 

« Prev« Prev | Next »Next »

Slideshow

































It was not immediately clear where President Blaise Compaore was, nor what restrictions were being imposed as a result of the state of emergency. The announcement was made by his communications director, Ibrahim Sakande.Demonstrators managed to block the parliamentary vote that was likely to give Compaore the ability to seek a fifth term. However, the violent opposition unleashed Thursday underscored the threat Compaore now faces as frustrations mount in one of the world's poorest countries."It is over for the regime!" and "We do not want him again!" shouted demonstrators when they heard that the vote on term limits had been stopped.Flames enveloped the main building in the parliament complex, and many lawmakers fled to a nearby hotel."It is difficult to say what happens next, but things are out of control because the demonstrators do not listen to anyone," said Ablasse Ouedraogo, an opposition lawmaker.In a bid to restore calm, military leaders met Thursday afternoon with the influential traditional chief of the country's largest ethnic group, the Mossi, according to Jonathan Yameogo, a spokesman for the ruling party.Burkina Faso has long been known for its relative stability in volatile West Africa, though tensions have been mounting over Compaore's plans to extend his rule.He first came to power following the October 1987 coup against then-President Thomas Sankara, Compaore's longtime friend and political ally who ultimately was killed in the power grab.Compaore has been elected four times since, though the opposition has disputed the results.Crowds also attacked the homes of government ministers and looted shops in the country's second-largest city, Bobo Dioulasso, witnesses said.Earlier, police in the capital had pushed the crowds back with tear gas, but they regrouped in larger numbers, surged past police lines and broke into the parliament building.Since coming to power in a coup, Compaore, 63, has refashioned himself as an elder statesman who brokered electoral disputes and hostage releases throughout the region.He made no secret of his support for Charles Taylor, the Liberian warlord turned president now serving a 50-year sentence for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Sierra Leone. The leader of Burkina Faso also has been accused of supporting rebel groups in Ivory Coast and Angola, though he later played the role as a peacemaker in Ivory Coast and elsewhere.More recently, his government was involved in negotiating the release of several European hostages held by al-Qaida-linked militants in northern Mali. He also hosted the talks between Mali's government and separatist Tuareg rebels, leading to the agreement which made the July 2013 presidential election possible.In 2011, Compaore encountered another crisis when multiple waves of protests washed over the country. The unrest began with students torching government buildings in several cities after a young man died in the custody of security forces, allegedly as a result of mistreatment.Ordinary citizens took to the streets over rising food prices, and soldiers looted shops and stole cars to express their discontent over low pay. At one point in mid-April of that year, mutinous soldiers occupied the palace, forcing Compaore to flee.But what would have spelled the end for many presidents was a mere temporary problem for Compaore, one he could maneuver his way out of by removing his security chiefs and appointing himself defense minister before returning to Ouagadougou.















OTHER STORIES ON OUR RADAR

 




AP




                        See It: Model's Waist Is an Insane 16 Inches
                    



                        This Miley Cyrus Instagram Pic Has Men Going Wild
                    



                        Is This the Reason Why Jennifer Lawrence Dumped Chris Martin?
                    



                        The Latest Sign That Bruce Jenner Is Transitioning Into a Woman
                    



                        16 Total Sexting Fails
                    



                        The 10 Best Horror Movies of All Time
                    



                        Halloween Homicides: 11 Shocking, Real Murders
                    

 

Partner Links





















            Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
        






















POPULAR ON NEWSER



[
By Views
]


[
By Comments
]






1


One by One, ISIS Executes 50 Men, Women, Kids



2


Meet the Man Who Helped Flood Chicago With Crack



3


Banker Arrested in ' American Psycho ' Slayings



4


7 Child Stars Who Crashed and Burned



5


What It's Like to Have the 'Golden' Blood Type







1


566
Freed American: Yes, I Planted Bible in N. Korea



2


250
One by One, ISIS Executes 50 Men, Women, Kids



3


127
Hickox Blasts Christie's 'Abundance of Politics'



4


91
'Not Your Mascot:' Native Americans Protest Redskins



5


77
Meet the Man Who Helped Flood Chicago With Crack


























From the AP News Wires:



Political




On eve of election, candidates clash over Obama as focus shifts to turnout



How do you know who won? AP calls races by counting, analyzing votes across the US



US allowed no-fly area amid Ferguson unrest to keep press out; police said move was for safety



Airwaves crowded in final weekend of campaign as candidates grab any last scrap of TV



Supreme Court hears 'born in Jerusalem' passport case again, amid tensions in Middle East



Documents: 1982 airline bomber sought deportation to West Bank but denied entry by Israel



Campaigning in New Hampshire, Hillary Clinton shows her family's clout




























































































NEWS FROM OUR PARTNERS






WHOAA!


'White Noise' For Your Nose Cancels Out Nasty Odors


British Pop Star Finds Spider Living In Her Ear



More from HuffPost Weird »








'Kourtney and Khloe Take The Hamptons' Recap: Kourtney...


Donald Faison Says Pregnant Wife CaCee Cobb's Morning...


'Furious 7' Trailer Shows Paul Walker Kicking Some Major...



More from The Stir »








Emma Watson Dedicates British Artist of the Year Award To...


Static-X Frontman Wayne Static Dead At 48


British Pop Star Katie Melua Finds Spider Living In Her Ear



More from HuffPost Celebrity »








Arias Judge Bars Public From Witness' Testimony


100,000 Kids Are Sold Into Sex Trafficking In The U.S....


Arrests Made In Hit-And-Run That Killed 3 On Halloween



More from HuffPost Crime »








7 Ways I REALLY Knew My Husband Was 'The One'


Dad Confession: I Worry My Baby Can Tell I'm Depressed


10 Reasons Beth Was The Living Worst On 'The Walking Dead'



More from YourTango »









Lena Dunham Goes on Twitter 'Rage Spiral' After Being...


Wayne Brady Opens Up About His Depression: 'I Had a...


Angie Harmon and Jason Sehorn Separating After 13 Years



More from ET Online »








Medical Procedure Payments Are Not All Equal, Shop To Net...


How to Boost Your Reputation at Work Without Stepping on...


Amercanex Plans Launch of First Cannabis Commodity Exchange...



More from MainStreet »








Brittany Maynard: 'Love and peace to you all'


Midterm elections likely to decide Senate control


Getting engaged for the holidays



More from HLNtv »








Kylie Jenner’s Most Worrisome Instagram Post Yet


Are Rufus And Lily Dating IRL?!


See Nori’s Adorable Halloween Costume & Is Kim Kardashian...



More from Gossip Girl »








Viral outbreaks will never be stopped because of human...


Howard, it's Jutting, Rurik Jutting. You're my lawyer, so I...


Putting out a face fire with a golf shoe, an Oontz of...



More from Fark »





Other Sites We Like:  
The Street
              |  
            MSN Living
              |  
            PopSugar Tech
              |  
            RealClear
              |  
            24/7 Wall St.
              |              
            Biography
              |              
            Barstool Sports
              |              
            OK!











About Us
What is Newser?
What Newser Does
Who's Behind Newser?
6 Myths About Newser
What People Are Saying
What's New
Press Releases
Contact Us
Advertise on Newser


Site
Help
How Do I Use Newser?
Why Should I Register?
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy


Community
Discuss on Facebook
Social Networks
Suggest a Story


Site Maps
Site Map
Top Sources


Get Newser
Mobile Website
iPhone App
iPad App
Android App
Windows Phone App
Windows 8 App
RSS
Newsletters



What is Newser?

Face it: there's too much news. At Newser, we choose the most thought-provoking and entertaining stories from hundreds of US and international sources and reduce them to a headline, picture, and two paragraphs. And we do it 24/7—you can come back morning, noon, night (and in between) for something new that matters. Read less, know more.


Learn more »



                                    ©
                                    2014
                                    Newser, LLC. All rights reserved.
                                

                                    Partnering with: The Street



View Newser on the mobile website
















































