Renewed clashes grip Burkina Faso amid calls for calm - CNN.com 
Renewed clashes grip Burkina Faso amid calls for calm - CNN.com


   
















EDITION:  INTERNATIONAL
U.S.
MÉXICO
ARABIC




TV:  
CNNi
CNN en Español


Set edition preference



Sign up
Log in

















Home
Video
World
U.S.
Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
Money
World Sport
Entertainment
Tech
Travel
iReport

















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











Renewed clashes grip Burkina Faso amid calls for calm



By Anna-Maja Rappard and Mariano Castillo, CNN
November 2, 2014 -- Updated 2141 GMT (0541 HKT)
















STORY HIGHLIGHTS


Protesters clashed with security forces in Burkina Faso's capital on Sunday
The protesters want the military government to step aside
The AU and ECOWAS call for peace and a transition to elections






(CNN) -- Protesters demanding that the newly installed military government step aside clashed with security forces in Burkina Faso's capital on Sunday as regional leaders pleaded for calm.
After the resignation of President Blaise Compaore -- who himself faced violent protests over his desire to extend his 27-year rule -- Burkina Faso's military took power.
On Sunday, a huge crowd gathered in Ouagadougou, protesting the military government and demanding the return to constitutional rule.
Gunfire erupted during clashes between the protesters and security forces near the location of the state news television channel, local journalist Ouezen Louis Oulon told CNN.
On Saturday, the military consolidated its support behind Lt. Col. Isaac Yacouba Zida, who will serve as interim President until elections can be held.
On Sunday, as the protests renewed, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States called for peace and an orderly transition to democracy.
Compaore resigned as President after initially vowing to stay until elections could be held, despite violent protests to his desire to extend his lengthy rule.
His decision to step down "opens the necessary political space for all the stakeholders to work together to find a lasting resolution to the crisis facing the country," the head of the African Union, Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, said in a statement.
The African Union's Peace and Security Council will hold a meeting on Monday to discuss the crisis in Burkina Faso.
Dlamini-Zuma said she prefers an agreement that will lead to a civilian-led transition toward elections for a new government.
She called on Burkina Faso's military to place themselves at the disposal of civilian authorities.
ECOWAS Chairman John Dramani Mahama offered a more general assessment, calling for all parties to "work in the overall interest of the people of Burkina Faso in order to guarantee peace and stability in the region."
Demonstrators last week stormed Parliament, setting fire to the building. The protests came amid rising discontent about the high cost of living and Compaore's attempts to amend the country's constitution to help him extend his term.
Compaore had been in office since he took power after a bloody coup in 1987.
The country was formerly known as the Republic of Upper Volta when it was established in 1958 as a self-governing colony under France.





































Most Popular

Today's five most popular stories




Brittany Maynard, advocate for 'death with dignity,' dies








13 of the world's most spectacular footbridges 








'House of Cards' actress Elizabeth Norment dies 








'Avant gardens': When art, design and a whole load of plants collide








Michelin: Hong Kong 'undisputed leader' in international cuisine









































   



Loading weather data ...














Home | Video | World | U.S. | Africa | Asia | Europe | Latin America | Middle East | Business | World Sport | Entertainment | Tech | Travel | iReport
Tools & Widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN Mobile | My Profile | E-mail Alerts | CNN Shop | Site map | CNN Partner Hotels



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN Chile | CNN México | العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe


© 2014  Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | AdChoices  | Advertise with us | License our content | About us | Contact us | Work for us | Help
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts




  








